 Prefatory Note 
 
 
T
he attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable p rovisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.  
Content last modified 02/03 /2017.   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
October 27, 2011 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

Monetary Policy Strategies 
With one exception, the staff’s estimates of short-run r*—the real federal funds 
rate that, if maintained, would return output to its potential in 12 quarters—did not change 
significantly over the intermeeting period.  All of the estimates of the equilibrium real 
federal funds rate remain negative and low by historical standards, and all except the EDO 
model’s estimate of short-run r* are below the estimated actual real federal funds rate.  As 
shown in the first two columns of the table in the exhibit, “Equilibrium Real Federal 
Funds Rate,” the estimates of short-run r* generated by the FRB/US model and the EDO 
model that are conditioned on the staff’s outl ook for the economy (that is, the “Tealbook-
consistent” measures) were unrevised, as the staff’s assessment of the medium-term  
outlook for economic activity is little changed relative to September.  The r* estimates 
produced by these models based on their own projections declined slightly or were 
unchanged; the estimate from the single-equatio n model was little changed as well.  In  
contrast, the estimate of r * from the small structural m odel fell 40 basis points.  This 
model places greater weight on its projections of the e quity premium, which have 
increased since the September Tealbook, inducin g a relatively large drop in the model’s 
forecast for aggregate demand.1   
The staff’s outlook for inflation and resour ce utilization over the medium-term has 
changed little over the intermeeting period.  Consequently, policy prescriptions from  
optimal control simulations of the FRB/US model are very sim ilar to those reported in the 
September Tealbook.2  This result is shown in the e xhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstrained 
Monetary Policy.”  In these simulations, polic ymakers are assumed to place equal weights 
on keeping headline PCE inflation close to a 2 percent inflation goal, on keeping the 
unemployment rate close to the staff’s estimate of the effective natural rate of  
unemployment, and on minimizing changes in the federal funds rate.   
1 Although the staff projects higher stock prices this quarter than in the September Tealbook, the 
equity premium forecasts of the sma ll structural model are conditioned on st ock prices in the third quarter of 
2011, which are nearly 5 percent below their value in the previous Tealbook.  These lower stock prices 
translate into an increase in the model’s equity premium. 
2 The staff’s baseline forecast incorp orates the effects of the large-s cale asset purchase program that 
was completed at the end of June, as well as the effects of the maturity extension program announced in September.  As a result, these effects have been incorporated into the optimal policy simulations. 
Strategies    
                                                 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 1 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Authorized for Public Release
Authorized for Public Release
The simulations indicate that the optimal path for the federal funds rate does not 
begin to rise appreciably above zero until th e end of 2015, about the same time as in the 
previous Tealbook.3  By committing to keep the funds rate near zero for such a long 
stretch of time, optimal policy would promote a faster pace of economic recovery than 
under the baseline and somewhat highe r inflation over the medium run.4  Specifically, the 
unemployment rate would fall to 5 percent in 2016 (compared with 6 percent in the 
baseline (not shown)), while headline infl ation would average a bout 2¼ percent in the 
latter half of the decade (compared with 1¾ percent in the baseline).   
If the nominal funds rate could fall be low zero, the optimal federal funds rate 
would decline to minus 3 percent in the firs t quarter of 2013 and w ould not turn positive 
until early in 2015.  Under this unconstrained  policy, the unemployment rate would fall 
below the staff’s medium-run estimate of the effective natural rate of unemployment in 
the third quarter of 2014—more than a year earlier than under the constrained policy—and 
then settle around 5¼ percent by the middle of 2015.  In cont rast, the inflation outlook 
through mid-decade is broadly similar under th e unconstrained and constrained policies,  
although inflation exceeds the assumed 2 pe rcent goal a bit more in 2014 and 2015 under 
the unconstrained policy.  However, under th e constrained policy, in flation stays above 
target longer after 2016, and the credible pr omise to produce this somewhat elevated 
future inflation helps boost infl ation expectations and lower real  rates in the early part of  
the simulation. 
As shown in the upper left panel of the exhibit “Policy Rules and Market-Based 
Expectations for the Federal Funds Rate,”  the expected funds rate implied by the 
estimated outcome-based policy rule is little changed relativ e to the September Tealbook.  
According to this rule, the funds rate is expected to move above its effective lower bound in the third quarter of 2014 and then to  rise to 3 percent by the end of 2016.
5    
3 Although the loss function uses headline inflation in stead of core inflation,  the real federal funds 
rate shown in the upper right panel of the exhibit is  calculated as the differen ce between the nominal funds 
rate and a four-quarter moving average of core PCE inflation.  Core PCE inflation is used to compute the 
real rate because it provides a less volatile measure of  inflation expectations than a four-quarter moving 
average of headline inflation, and because it makes the results in this exhibit easier to compare with 
measures of the real ra te reported elsewhere. 
4 These simulations assume that policymakers can credibly commit to a policy path that extends 
many years into the future, co nditional on underlying economic c onditions unfolding as expected. 
5 The confidence interval implies a 14 percent chan ce that the federal funds rate is above 25 basis 
points this quarter.  However, the estimated rule depends on the lagged federal funds rate, defined as the actual policy rate observed in the previous quarter.  If instead the lagged values used in generating these 
Strategies   
                                                 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 4 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations for the Federal Funds Rate 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Percent 
Note:  In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule 
Note:  The staff baseline projection for the federal funds rate is derived from the outcome-based policy rule shown in 
the top-left panel.  The top-right panel depicts the mean path and confidence intervals of future federal funds rates derived from market quotes as of October 26. In both panels, dark and light shadings represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively. Explanatory Note B provides further background information. Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Memo 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Percent Market-Based Expectations
for the Federal Funds Rate 
Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy 
2011Q4 2012Q1 2011Q4 2012Q1 
Taylor (1993) rule 0.81 0.86 0.81 0.86
     Previous Tealbook 0.72 0.74 0.72 0.74 
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -2.17 -2.09
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -2.37 -2.35 
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.12 -0.36
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.23 -0.57 
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.20 -0.58
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.30 -0.77 
First-difference rule 0.13 0.13 0.03 -0.02
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.07 -0.14 
2011Q4 2012Q1 
Staff assumption 0.08 0.13 
Fed funds futures 0.08 0.10 
Median expectation of primary dealers 0.13 0.13 
Blue Chip forecast (October 1, 2011) 0.10 0.10 
Strategies012345678  
012345678  
 
 
  
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 5 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
As shown to the right, information from fi nancial markets suggests that investors’  
expectations for the path of the federal funds rate also have changed little relative to the 
September Tealbook.  Market participants expe ct the funds rate to remain within its 
current target range until mid-2013 before risi ng gradually to 2.4 percent by the end of 
2016.   
The lower panel of the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from simple policy 
rules.6  As shown in the left-hand columns, pres criptions for the federal funds rate from 
most of the rules remain at or near th e effective lower bound.  The right-hand columns 
display the prescriptions that would arise from these rules in the absence of the lower-
bound constraint.7  Because the staff foresees a modest improvement in the near-term  
output gap, all of the unconstrained rules pres cribe a slightly higher federal funds rate 
compared with the September Tealbook.  
probabilities had not been constrained by the effective lower bound from being negative in 2009 and 2010, 
this probability would be negligible. 
6 In contrast to the optimal control simulations, which use headline inflation in the policymakers’ 
objective function, the policy rule prescriptions use core inflation as the measure of inflation.  This choice of 
rule specification was made in light of the tendency for current and near-term core inflation rates to 
outperform headline inflation rates as predictors of the medium-term behavior of headline inflation.  Thus, the use of headline inflation in the optimal control simulations and of core inflation in the policy rules are 
both consistent with the notion that policymakers are concerned with the medium-term behavior of headline inflation. 
7 Prescriptions from the estimated outcome-based rule, the estimated forecast-based rule, and the 
first-difference rule depend on the lagged federal funds rate, defined as the actual policy rate observed in the 
previous quarter.  If the lagged values used in generating the rule prescriptions had not been constrained by 
the effective lower bound fr om becoming negative in 2009 and 2010, the prescriptions from all three rules 
would be further below zero both in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012. 
Strategies   
                                                                                                                                                   
      
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 6 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents four policy altern atives—labeled A1, A2, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  As always, the Co mmittee could mix components of the various 
alternatives to construct its desired statement.   
The alternatives provide a range of options  regarding the management of the balance 
sheet.  Alternatives A1and B maintain the ma turity extension program the Committee announced 
at its September meeting and i nvolve no additional balance sheet  actions.  In addition to the 
maturity extension program, Alternative A2  introduces a new $600 billion asset-purchase 
program consisting either entirely of longer-term Treasury securities or an equal mix of 
Treasuries and agency mortgage-backed securiti es (MBS).  Alternative C announces a reduction 
by half in the size of the maturity extension prog ram and an intention to complete it sooner, by 
the end of March 2012 (which would involve a m oderate slowing of the pace of purchases and 
sales).  All four alternatives maintain the Comm ittee’s existing policies of reinvesting principal 
payments on agency debt and MBS into MBS and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.   
The alternatives also provide a range of options regarding forward guidance for the future 
path of the federal funds rate.  Alternative B makes no substantive changes to the Committee’s 
forward guidance, keeping the specification th at economic conditions are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds ra te “at least through mid-2013.”  Alternative A1 
proposes several options for lengt hening the anticipated period of near-zero rates in order to 
provide further policy accommodation.  Specifically, it suggests either extending the date 
through which the Committee projects it would keep  the federal funds rate target unchanged to 
“at least through mid-2014,” or instead usi ng quantitative information on the economic 
conditions that would be consiste nt with a commencement of tightening.  Two possibilities for 
characterizing these economic conditions are presen ted:  One specifies an expected date for the 
first increase in the target federal funds rate  together with forecasts for unemployment and 
inflation at that time; the other specifies conditional thresholds for unemployment and inflation and indicates when the Committee expects one or both thresholds to be reached.
1  Alternative C 
shortens the projected time until the first increase in the target federal f unds rate to the end of 
1 These features of Alternative A1 reflect the illustrative language on clarifying forward guidance presented 
in the memo “Approaches to Clarifying the Conditionality  in the Committee’s Forward Guidance,” sent to the 
Committee on September 12, 2011. 
Alternatives                                                 
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 7 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
2012.  When providing information on the timing of liftoff, both Alternatives B and C also offer 
the possibility of changing the language of the cond itional guidance so that it refers to a specific 
number of quarters into the future rather than a particular date.    
Alternative A2 raises the possibility of reducing the interest rate paid on required and 
excess reserve balances from 25 basis points to 10 
basis points in order to align those rates with 
current and projected levels of  overnight market rates.   
Regarding the characterization of recent econom ic conditions, the first paragraph of each 
alternative acknowledges the somewh at stronger tone of the data  received over the intermeeting 
period.  However, alternatives A1, A2, and B attribute much of the recent improvement to a 
reversal of temporary factors that had been damp ening growth.  All of th e alternatives note that 
household spending has picked up in recent months  and also the continuing weakness in the 
labor market; the tone of Alternative C is slightly more encouraging w ith respect to economic 
developments.  Regarding inflati on, Alternatives A1 and A2 state that it “has moderated” since 
earlier in the year, while Altern ative B repeats the language of the September statement, saying 
that it “appears to have moderated.”  Alternative  C says that inflation ap pears to have moderated 
“only somewhat.” 
Turning to the outlook, alternatives A1, B, and C state that the Committee continues to 
expect a “moderate” pace of growth over coming qua rters, while alternative A2 indicates that the 
Committee expects growth to be “relatively modest .”  Alternatives A1, A2, and B note that the 
Committee consequently anticipates that the une mployment rate will decline “only gradually;” 
Alternative C offers a more positive tone by omitting “only” from this phrase.  Alternatives A1, 
A2, and B continue to highlight downside risk s to the economic outlook, including strains in 
global financial markets, although Alternativ e B no longer characteri zes these risks as 
“significant.”  Alternative C drops the refere nce to downside risks.  As in September, 
Alternatives A1, A2, and B project that inflation will settle “at levels at or below those consistent 
with the Committee’s dual mandate.”  Alternative C modifies this projection to “levels consistent 
with the Committee’s dual mandate.” 
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 8 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 
 
 
   
     
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
     
  
      
 
    
 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011The following table shows key elements of  the policy actions contained in the 
alternatives. (Due to the comple xity of the alternatives at this  meeting, the comparisons of the 
other aspects of the statements that are usually included in this table are omitted for ease of use.)  
The table is followed by complete draft statements, then by a summary of the arguments for each 
alternative. 
Table 1: Overview of Alternatives for the November 2 FOMC Statement 
Selected 
Elements September 
Statement November Alternatives 
A1 A2 B C 
Balance Sheet 
MEP $400 billion; 
complete by 
end of June 2012 unchanged  unchanged unchanged cut to $200 billion; 
complete by 
end of March 2012 
Reinvestments payments of agency 
debt and MBS into 
agency MBS; 
Treasuries into 
Treasuries unchanged unchanged unchanged  unchanged 
Additional 
Purchases none none $600 billion of 
Treasuries 
by end of Sept. 2012 
OR 
$300 billion each of 
Treasuries and 
agency MBS 
by end of June 2012 none none 
Forward Guidance 
First Option at least through 
mid-2013 at least through 
mid-2014 unchanged  unchanged at least through 
2012 
Second Option through end of 2014 
and forecasts of 
unemployment and 
inflation at that time at least for the next 
six to seven quarters at least for the next 
four quarters 
Third Option at least as long as 
unemployment and 
inflation conditions 
hold; expect such 
conditions to prevail 
through end of 2014 
Page 9 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
SEPTEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August indicates that 
economic growth remains slow.  Recent indicators point to continuing weakness in overall  
labor market conditions, and the unemployment rate remains elevated.  Household spending 
has been increasing at only a modest pace in recen t months despite some recovery in sales of 
motor vehicles as supply-chain disruptions eased.  Investment in nonresidential structures is 
still weak, and the housing sector remains depr essed.  However, business investment in 
equipment and software continues to expand.  Inflation appears to have moderated since 
earlier in the year as prices of energy and some commodities have declined from their peaks.  
Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  The Committee continues to expect some pickup in the pace of recovery  
over coming quarters but anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only  gradually  
toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Moreover, 
there are significant downside risks to the economic outlook, including strains in global 
financial markets.  The Committee also anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming 
quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other commodity price increases dissipate further.  However, the 
Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation 
expectations.  
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to extend the average 
maturity of its holdings of securities.  The Comm ittee intends to purchase, by the end of June 
2012, $400 billion of Treasury securities with remain ing maturities of 6 years to 30 years and 
to sell an equal amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less.  This program should put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and help make 
broader financial conditions more accommodative.  The Committee will regularly review the 
size and composition of its securities holdings a nd is prepared to adjust those holdings as 
appropriate.  
4. To help support conditions in mortgage markets, the Committee will now reinvest principal 
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency  
mortgage-backed securities.  In addition, the Committee will maintain its existing policy  of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  
5. The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of resource  
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium  run—are likely to warrant  
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013.  
6. The Committee discussed the range of policy tools available to promote a stronger economic 
recovery in a context of price stability.  It will continue to assess the economic outlook in 
light of incoming information and is prepared to employ its tools as appropriate.  
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 10 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
NOVEMBER FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A1 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in Augu st September 
indicates that economic growth remains slow strengthened somewhat in the third quarter, 
but the pickup was due predominantly to a rev ersal of the temporary factors that had 
weighed on growth earlier in the year .  Recent indicators point to continuing weakness in 
overall labor market conditions, and the unemployment rate remains elevated.  Household 
spending has been increas eding at only a modest a somewhat faster pace in recent months 
despite some recovery in sales of motor vehicles as supply -chain disruptions have eased .  
However, Business investment in equipment and software has continue ds to expand , but 
investment in nonresidential structures is still weak and the housing sector remains 
depressed.  Inflation appears to have has moderated since earlier in the year as prices of 
energy and some commodities have declined from their peaks.  Longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  The Committee continues to expect some pickup in the a moderate  pace 
of recovery economic growth over coming quarters but and consequently  anticipates that 
the unemployment rate will decline only gradua lly toward levels that the Committee judges 
to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Moreover However , there are significant downside 
risks to the economic outlook, including strains in global financial markets.  The Committee also anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those 
consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other 
commodity price increases dissipate further .  However , The Committee will continue to pay 
close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to continue its 
program to extend the average maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in 
September.  The Committee intends to purchase, by the end of June 2012, $400 billion of 
Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years and to sell an equal 
amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturiti es of 3 years or less. This program 
should put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and help make broader financial 
conditions more accommodative.  To help support conditions in mortgage markets,  The 
Committee will now is maintaining its existing policies of  reinvest ing principal payments 
from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities.  In addition the Committee will maintain its existing policy and of rolling 
over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size 
and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as 
appropriate.  
4. The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent.  and currently  The Committee now anticipates that economic conditions—including 
low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run— are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid -
2013 mid-2014. 
OR 
Alternatives   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 11 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
4´. The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent.  an d currently  The Committee now anticipates that economic conditions—including 
low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run— 
are likely to warrant this exceptionally low levels range  for the federal funds rate at least 
through mid-2013 through the end of 2014 .  On the basis of currently available 
information, the Committee projects the unemployment rate to be about [ 6½ to 7 ] 
percent and the inflation rate (as measured by the price index for Personal 
Consumption Expenditures) to be around [ 1¾ to 2¼ ] percent at that time. 
OR 
4´´. The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent.  and currently The Committee anticipates that economic conditions—including low 
rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run —are 
likely to warrant this exceptionally low levels range for the federal funds rate will be 
appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate exceeds  [ 7 ] percent, inflation (as 
measured by the price index for Personal Consumption Expenditures) is projected to be 
at or below  [ 2½ ] percent in the medium term, and longer-term inflation expectations 
continue to be well anchored .  On the basis of currently available information, the 
Committee expects these conditions to prevail through the end of 2014.  
5. The Committee discussed the ra nge of policy tools available will continue to assess the 
economic outlook in light of incoming information and is prepared to employ its tools as 
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability.  
Alternatives   
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 12 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011NOVEMBER FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A2 
1. 	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August September 
indicates that economic growth remains slow strengthened somewhat in the third quarter, 
but the pickup was due predominantly to a rev ersal of the temporary factors that had 
weighed on growth earlier in the year . Recent indicators point to continuing weakness in 
overall labor market conditions, and the unemployment rate remains elevated.  Household 
spending has been  increas eding at only a modest a somewhat faster pace in recent months 
despite some recovery in sales of motor vehicles as supply -chain disruptions have eased . 
However, Business investment in equipment and software has continue ds to expand , but 
investment in nonresidential structures is still weak and the housing sector remains 
depressed. Inflation appears to have has moderated since earlier in the year as prices of 
energy and some commodities have declined from their peaks.  Longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable.  
2. 	 Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  The Committee continues to  expect s some pickup in  the pace of recovery 
economic growth  over coming quarters to be relatively modest  but and consequently 
anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Moreover However , there are 
significant downside risks to the economic outlook, including strains in global financial markets.  The Committee also  anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at 
levels at or below those consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other commodity price increases dissipate furth er. However,   The Committee 
will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. 	 To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to continue its 
program to 
extend the average maturity
 of its holdings of securities as announced in 
September .  The Committee intends to purchase, by the end of June 2012, $400 billion of 
Treasury
 securities with remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years and to sell an equal 
amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less. In addition, the 
Committee intends to purchase a further  [ $600 billion of longer-term Treasury 
securities by the end of September 2012  | $300 billion of longer-term Treasury securities 
and $300 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities by the end of June 2012  ].  This 
These  program s should put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and help make 
broader financial conditions more accommodative.   To help support conditions in mortgage 
markets,  The Committee will now is maintaining its existing policies of  reinvest ing 
principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. In addition the Committee will maintain its existing 
policy and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee will 
regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust 
those holdings as appropriate.  
4. 	 The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013.   
Page 13 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
5.  The Committee discussed the range of policy tools available  will continue to assess the 
economic outlook in light of incoming information and is prepared to employ its tools as 
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability.  
Note: If policymakers decide it is appropriate to reduce the remuneration rate on reserve 
balances, the Board of Governors would issue an  accompanying statement that might read: 
In a related action, the Board of Governors vote d today to reduce the interest rate paid on 
required and excess reserve balances from 25 basi s points to 10 basis points effective with the 
reserve maintenance period that  begins on November 17, 2011. 
Alternatives   
 
   
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 14 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
NOVEMBER FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August September 
indicates that economic growth remains slow strengthened somewhat in the third quarter, 
reflecting in part a reversal of the temporary factors that had weighed on growth 
earlier in the year .  Nonetheless,  recent indicators point to continuing weakness in overall 
labor market conditions, and the unemployment rate remains elevated.  Household spending 
has been  increas eding at only a modest a somewhat faster pace in recent months despite 
some recovery in sales of motor vehicles as supply -chain disruptions have eased .  However, 
Business investment in equipment and software has continue ds to expand , but  investment in 
nonresidential structures is still weak, and the housing sector remains depressed.  Inflation 
appears to have moderated since earlier in the year as prices of energy and some commodities 
have declined from their peaks.  Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  The Committee continues to expect some pickup in the a moderate  pace 
of recovery economic growth over coming quarters but and consequently  anticipates that 
the unemployment rate will decline only gradua lly toward levels that the Committee judges 
to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Moreover, there are significant  downside risks to the 
economic outlook remain , including strains in global financial markets.  The Committee also 
anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those 
consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other 
commodity price increases dissipate further.  However, the Committee will continue to pay 
close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to continue its 
program to extend the average maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in 
September.  The Committee intends to purchase, by the end of June 2012, $400 billion of 
Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years and to sell an equal 
amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less.  This program 
should put downward pressure on longer-term inte rest rates and help make broader financial 
conditions more accommodative.  To help support conditions in mortgage markets , The 
Committee will now is maintaining its existing policies of  reinvest ing principal payments 
from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities.  In addition the Committee will maintain its existing policy and of rolling 
over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size 
and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as 
appropriate.  
4. The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of resource 
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least [ through mid-2013 | for the next 
six to seven quarters ].  
Alternatives   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 15 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
5. The Committee discussed the rang e of policy tools available will continue to assess the 
economic outlook in light of incoming information and is prepared to employ its tools to 
promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 16 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011NOVEMBER FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1. 	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August September 
indicates that economic growth remains slow of late has been somewhat stronger than the 
Committee had expected . Recent indicators point to continuing weakness in overa ll labor 
market conditions, and Although the unemployment rate remains elevated, household 
spending has been  increas eding at only a modest a faster pace in recent months despite some 
recovery in sales of motor vehicles as supply -chain disruptions have ease d. However, 
Business investment in equipment and software continues to expand , and  investment in 
nonresidential structures is still weak has increased . and The housing sector remains 
depressed.  Inflation appears to have moderated only somewhat since earlier in the year , 
despite a decline in the  as prices of energy and some commodities have declined from their 
peaks . Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.  
2. 	 Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  The Committee continues to expect some pickup in the a moderate  pace 
of recovery growth  over coming quarters but and anticipates that the unemployment rate 
will decline only gradually toward levels that the Commit tee judges to be consistent with its 
dual mandate.  Moreover, there are significant downside risks to the economic outlook, 
including strains in global financial markets.   The Committee also anticipates that inflation 
will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at o r below those  consistent with the Committee's 
dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other commodity price increases dissipate 
further. However, the Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of 
inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. 	 To support  a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate In light of the recent improvement in the economic 
outlook , the Committee decided today to reduce by half the size of the program to extend 
the average maturity of its holdings of securities that it announced in September . The 
Committee intends to purchase, by the end of June 2012, $400 billion of Treasury securities 
with remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years and to sell an equal amount of Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of 3 year s or less.  This program should put downward 
pressure on longer-term interest rates and help make broader financial conditions more 
accommodative. In particular, the Committee intends to limit purchases and sales of 
securities under this program to $200 billion each and to complete these operations by 
the end of March 2012.  To help support conditions in mortgage markets,  The Committee 
will now is maintaining its existing policies of  reinvest ing principal payments from its 
holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. In addition the Committee will maintain its existing policy and of rolling over 
maturing Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prep ared to adjust those holdings as appropriate. 
4. 	 The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently, now anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least [ through 2012  mid-2013 | 
for the next four quarters  ]. 
Page 17 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
5. The Committee discussed the range of policy tools available to promote a stronger economic 
recovery in the context of price stability. It  will continue to assess the economic outlook in 
light of incoming information and is prepared to employ its tools as appropriate to promote 
its objectives of maximum employment and stable prices . 
Alternatives   
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 18 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
The Committee may see the information re ceived during the intermeeting period as 
pointing to essentially the same path of ec onomic activity and unemplo yment over the medium  
run that it expected at the time of the Septembe r meeting.  In particular, policymakers may note 
that, leaving aside the unwinding of  temporary factors that were restraining activity earlier in the 
year, economic growth has continued at a modest pace.  Although they may interpret the 
somewhat stronger-than-expected ec onomic data received over the period as suggesting that the 
odds of a new recession have diminished, they ma y view the strains in global financial markets 
as still posing downside risks to  the economic outlook.  Moreover, they may judge that, with the 
U.S. economy operating well below potential, and with energy and commodity prices generally 
having declined from their earlier peaks, inflation is likely to subside to levels at or below those 
most consistent with the dual mandate.  Furthermore, policymakers may believe that monetary policy actions taken to date have put in plac e sufficient support for the economic recovery.  
Indeed, members may note that the staff’s estimates of the equilibrium real federal funds rate are 
largely unchanged from the previous Tealbook and so see no reason to adjust policy further at 
this meeting.  If so, members may wish to adopt  a statement like Alternative B, which contains 
no new policy action and language similar to that of the September statement. 
Some members may note that the outlook has not improved markedly relative to the 
forecast that they judged warranted further easing at the Septem ber meeting, or they may view 
the current staff forecast of economic activity as too optimistic; in either case, they may be 
inclined toward further policy measures to make faster progress toward the dual mandate.  
Nevertheless, they may judge that it would be prude nt to gauge the extent to which growth picks 
up in response to policy actions already in place before deciding whether to engage in new asset 
purchases or take other accommodative steps, pa rticularly if they see the downside risks to 
growth as having diminished somewhat.  In  addition, members may anticipate that coming 
months will bring forth important information on the direction of the European situation, the 
persistence of the recent uptick in  domestic economic growth, and the direction of core inflation.  
Policymakers might prefer to await the accrual of  this information and, accordingly, agree to stay 
their hand at this meeting.  In addition, the Committee may wish to  complete its discussions of 
policy frameworks and communications befo re undertaking additional policy actions.  
Some Committee members may believe that maintaining the current stance of policy is 
appropriate even though they anti cipate only a gradual recovery.  Specifically, they might judge 
that the potential costs of providing more speci fic forward guidance or engaging in additional 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 19 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
asset purchases, as in Alternatives A1 and A2, outweigh the likely benefits.  Even if the 
Committee’s forward guidance contained numerical thresholds, policymakers might be 
concerned that an extension of the date used in  the forward guidance could pose an obstacle to 
rapid policy adjustment should economic conditio ns warrant.  Moreover, members may question 
whether the numerical thresholds proposed in Alternative A1 can adequately reflect the diversity 
of views among policymakers.  Thus, while they may be well disposed to th e spirit of Alternative 
A1, members may view other communications tools, such as the Summary of Economic 
Projections, as a superior way of conveying their expectations to th e public.  With regard to the 
possibility of additional asset purchases, as laid out in Alternative A2, members might be 
concerned that a significant furt her expansion of the Federal Re serve’s balance sheet and the 
corresponding supply of reserve balances could po se an upside risk to inflation expectations 
because it might make the public doubt that the Committee will be able to withdraw accommodation in a timely fashion.  In addition, policymakers might view as undesirable the 
increase in the Federal Reserve’s exposure to capital losses that would result from a further 
expansion of the SOMA portfolio. 
Committee members may interpret the incomi ng economic data or the recently im
 proved 
tone in financial markets as indicating that the outlook has improved and that downside risks 
have receded somewhat, but they may still project unemployment to decline only gradually and 
inflation to settle at or below levels consistent  with their mandate.  Thus, they may find the early 
cessation of the maturity extension program sugg ested in Alternative C to be premature.  
Members may prefer to await furthe r data to confirm that the rec overy has strengthened and that 
unemployment has begun to decline before c oncluding that the full amount of the policy 
accommodation provided in September was not need ed.  They may also want greater clarity 
about further policy actions to be un dertaken by the European authorities. 
Some policymakers may find it awkward to ch ange the projected date in the forward 
guidance, potentially frequently, in order to main tain what they view as a constant stance of 
policy.  Those members might view language that sp ecifies a period of time for the low level of 
the federal funds rate, rather th an a date, as a clearer way of communicating their intentions to 
the public.  If so, they may see merit in the option in Alternative B (a modified version of which 
is also included in Alternative C) that indicates that the federal funds  rate is likely to remain in its 
exceptionally low range “for at le ast the next six to seven quarters.”  On the other hand, if the 
economy evolves about as expected—and if the Co mmittee consequently continues over time to 
see the date on which it now anticipates raising the federal funds rate target  as still appropriate— 
then the Committee would need to reduce incrementa lly the number of quarters it would specify.  
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 20 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
This reasoning might suggest  that stating the date of liftoff, ra ther than the duration of the period 
at the effective lower bound, could be the simpler and clearer approach. 
A statement along the lines of  Alternative B would be br oadly in line with ma rket 
expectations.  Neither the information from mark et data nor that from the Desk’s survey of 
primary dealers indicates a large change in expect ations for the path of the federal funds rate 
since September, and both continue to place the expected date of liftoff significantly beyond 
mid-2013.  Thus, any reaction in short-term intere st rates to the forward guidance contained in 
Alternative B would likely be mu ted.  Moreover, dealers placed low odds on any change in the 
Committee’s asset-purchase programs at this meeti ng, so Alternative B woul d also be unlikely to 
result in much change in longer- term interest rates.  Similarl y, there would probably be little 
reaction in equity prices or in the foreign exchan ge value of the dollar. 
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE A1 OR A2  
Policymakers may view the information r eceived since the September meeting as 
confirming that additional policy accommodation is  needed to promote outcomes that are more 
consistent with the Federal Reserve’s dual mandate .  In particular, they may regard the recent  
data on labor markets and on household and business confidence as evidence that the reasons for 
slow economic growth in 2011 go well beyond the tran sitory factors noted ear lier in the year.  
They may also see a tightening of fiscal polic y as likely and be concerned about the resulting 
adverse effects on economic activity and employment  in the medium run, or they may view the 
downside risks to the economic outlook posed by fina ncial strains in Europe as significant.  
Against this backdrop, policymakers may continue  to view the near- and medium-term economic 
outlook as unacceptably weak and the downside risks as unacceptably high, perhaps even to the 
point of projecting that the U.S.  economy could slip into a ne w downturn, as in the “Recession” 
alternative simulation of Tealbook Book A.  Such an assessment could lead the Committee to 
provide additional accommodation, as in Alternative A1 or A2.   
In addition, some participants may see the main risk to inflation over the projection 
period as being to the downside—for example, if they anticipate little reduction in the existing 
slack in labor markets over coming quarters or see large negative risks to the outlook for growth.  
Indeed, members may note that survey measures of  inflation expectations have moved lower of 
late and that market-based estimates of defla tion probabilities remain elevated, and they might 
therefore judge that the odds that  inflation will fall below mandate -consistent levels and remain 
there for a substantial period of time are unacceptably high. 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 21 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Accordingly, policymakers may conclude that both the maximum employment and price 
stability elements of the dual mandate justify further policy accommodation at this time.  They 
may judge that, with the federal funds rate  constrained by the zer o lower bound and with 
elevated downside risks to both output and infl ation, it would be prudent  to issue stronger 
forward guidance, along the lines presented in A lternative A1, or to unde rtake additional asset 
purchases, as in Alternative A 2.  If policymakers see growing public uncertainty that the 
expansion will continue—much less strengthen—as contributing significantly to the weakness in  
household spending and to firms’ c ontinuing reluctance to hire new workers, they may judge that 
the language in Alternative A1 or the new bala nce sheet expansion in Alternative A2 would 
bolster the public’s confidence in the Committee’s commitment to support a stronger recovery 
and guard against deflationary pressures. 
Important factors that might guide policymakers’ preference for one of the A alternatives 
over the ot
her could include their assessments of  the degree to which additional transparency by 
the FOMC will be viewed as a credible commitment and thereby translate into meaningful 
economic effects, and the extent to which they are concerned about the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and its possible imp lications for the timely removal of policy 
accommodation.  Of course, if they wished, policymakers could also combine elements of the 
proposed enhanced forward guidance with  additional balance sheet expansion. 
Alternative A1 
Alternative A1 includes several possibilities  for altering the forward guidance about the 
expected timing of the first increa se in the federal funds rate ta rget.  The most straightforward 
change would be to extend the conditional lo wer bound on this date—given as mid-2013 in the 
previous two FOMC statements—to a significantly  later date, such as mid-2014.  Policymakers 
might prefer this option if they do not exp ect to need to begin the removal of policy 
accommodation for several years but do not at this  time wish to provide numerical information 
about the economic conditions that would lead them to increase the target, perhaps because they 
are concerned that an articulat ion of those conditions might be interpreted by the public as a 
statement about the Committee’s longer-run objectives. Although the staff forecast of economic 
activity and inflation, in combin ation with the estimated outcome s-based rule, suggests that the 
target range for the federal funds rate w ill be unchanged through mid-2014, the Desk’s most 
recent survey indicated that more than half of th e primary dealers expect the first increase in the 
federal funds rate target to occur by the e nd of the first quarter of 2014.  Given these 
expectations, if the Committee were to state th at it currently does not anticipate raising the 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 22 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
federal funds rate before mid-2014, that announcemen t could lower market expectations of short-
term interest rates beyond 2013 and so put downward pressure on medium- and longer-term  
interest rates and upward pr essure on asset prices.   
Alternatively, policymakers might prefer to pr ovide an expectation for the date of policy 
liftoff, rather than a lower bound, using language like “through the end of  2014” instead of “at 
least through m
id-2014.”  In this case, they may prefer to include forecasts of the economic 
conditions they expect to prevail at that time in order to clar ify the conditional nature of the 
projected date, as in paragraph 4´ of Alternative A 1.  Or policymakers may wish to emphasize 
the levels of unemployment and inflation that they see as consistent with the removal of policy 
accommodation, in which case they may find para graph 4´´ a more appealing option.  That 
formulation characterizes the Committee’s reacti on function in terms of sufficient conditions for 
continued low levels of the federa l funds rate, while still providing an expectation (rather than an 
expected lower bound) for the date at whic h the target rate will first be raised.  
Members may find attractive the additional transparency associated with the conditional 
forward guidance contained in the latter two versions of Alternative A1.  To the extent that the 
quantitative guidance specified in Alternative A1 reduced the public’s uncertainty about the 
Committee’s economic outlook and its policy reaction function, a statem ent along those lines 
could reduce market volatility, and, in curre nt circumstances, foster more accommodative 
financial conditions.  By giving market participan ts greater clarity about the economic conditions 
that the Committee judges would be likely to warrant  raising the target for the federal funds rate, 
a statement using the sort of conditional forward guidance contained in paragraphs 4´ and 4´´  
could also reduce the chance that medium- and l onger-term rates will rise too soon or too quickly 
as the recovery progresses.  
Any of the changes in forward guidance c onsidered in Altern ative A1 would be 
somewhat, but not altogether, unexpected by market  participants.  Respondents to the Desk’s 
dealer survey placed only about 25 percent odds  on a substantial cha nge in the Committee’s 
forward guidance at this meeting, but they saw more  than a 50 percent chan ce of a change in the 
guidance within the next year.  Treasury yields  would likely move lower,  particularly around the 
two- to five-year sector, as inve stors priced in lower expected s hort-term rates for a longer period 
and possibly lower term premiums in response to reduced uncertainty about the path for policy.   
If the inclusion of threshold values for inflat ion were read as suggesting that the Committee 
might be comfortable with levels of inflation above 2 percent for a si gnificant period of time, 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 23 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
medium-term inflation compensation could increa se.  In either case, equity prices would 
probably rise, and the exchange value of the dollar would likely decline. 
Alternative A2   
Policymakers may view additiona l large-scale asset purchases, rather than changes to the 
forward-guidance language, as the better means of providing additional stimulus.  Staff estimates 
suggest that purchases of $600 billion of longer-t erm Treasury securities, one of the possibilities 
presented in Alternative A2, would push down the level of me dium- and longer-term private 
interest rates and might ease financial conditions enough to reduce the unemployment rate by ¼ 
percentage point at the end of 2013.  Staff also  estimates that such a program would increase 
PCE inflation by about ¼ percen tage point over time.  These estimates are subject to 
considerable uncertainty, but would be in additio n to the effects the staff believes will ultimately 
be produced by the completion of the Committee’ s maturity extension program announced in 
September.  Because of operational constraint s, and the overlapping purchases being conducted 
under the maturity extension program, the additi onal Treasury purchases likely could not be 
completed until September 2012.  If the Committee split its purchases between longer-term  
Treasuries and agency MBS, as in  the other option in Alternative A2, then the purchases could 
be completed by the end of June 2012.  The Committee might prefer some MBS purchases if it is concerned about the possible eff ects on the functioning of the Trea sury market of $600 billion of 
additional Treasury purchases.  In addition, some participants may see the moribund conditions 
in the housing sector as a critic al contributor to th e weak economic recovery and so want to 
purchase some MBS as a way of providing support to that sector.  In contra st, other participants 
may prefer to purchase only Treasury securities , perhaps because they see MBS purchases as 
causing an undesirable distortion in  the allocation of credit.    
Some policymakers may see potential benefits from reducing the interest rate paid on 
required and excess reserve balances (referred to collectively here as the IOER rate) to 10 basis 
points.
 2   Doing so would put downward pressure on a range of money market rates, and so 
lower longer-term rates, at leas t to some degree.  In addition, lower money market rates could 
prompt investors to shift their holdings toward riskier assets, pushing do wn risk premiums and 
adding to monetary stimulus.  Such a reduction in the IOER rate also could mitigate concern about the Federal Reserve appear ing to subsidize banks by paying an overnight rate that is 
noticeably above other risk-free, short-term rates.  However, other participants may see a further 
2 Additional considerations related to possible changes in the remuneration rate on excess reserves can be 
found in the memo, “Reconsidering Lowering the IOER  Rate,” sent to the Committee on October 25, 2011. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 24 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
reduction in money market rates as likely to accelerate outflows from money market mutual 
funds and be concerned that if that adjustment were sufficiently rapid th ere might be disruptions 
in short-term credit intermediati on that could adversely affect th e economy.  This risk would be 
reduced, but not eliminated, by a decision to keep the IOER rate at 10 basis points rather than 
reducing it to zero.  Cutting the IOER rate also would damp depository institutions’ incentive to 
borrow and hold excess reserves, like ly resulting, in particular, in a further reduction in trading 
volume in the federal funds market and potentially in greater volatility in the effective federal 
funds rate.  Moreover, banks might impose greater  fees on deposit accounts , a development that 
could lead to a negative response by the public.  If participants generally  thought that a reduction 
in the IOER rate would be helpful, on balance,  the Board could adopt su ch a reduction, and that 
step could be noted in the press rele ase containing the FOMC statement. 
An additional asset purchase program, like those offered in Alternative A2, would come 
as a surprise
 to market participants at this tim e; in the Desk’s survey, primary dealers assigned 
less than a 10 percent chance to  further securities purchases be ing announced at this meeting.  
Longer-term interest rates would decline notably, and shorter-term  interest rates would probably 
move a bit lower as well, since market particip ants would likely associate the action with a 
longer duration of a near-zer o target federal funds rate, even if the date specified in the statement 
was left unchanged.  If the additional purchase pr ogram included a significant amount of MBS, 
the spread on those securities would likely narrow somewhat with respect to Treasuries.  Primary 
dealers, on average, saw about a 20 percent proba bility of a cut in th e remuneration rate on 
required and excess reserves at some point within the next two years, but the probability of such 
a change at the November meeting was notably sm aller.  Thus, if the interest rate on excess 
reserves were reduced, shorter-te rm yields would likely decline a few basis points, in addition to 
the effects of any other actions the Committee an nounced.  The effect could be amplified by the 
increase in reserve balances generated by the new purchase program.  With any combination of 
the options in Alternative A2, e quity prices would probably increas e, and the exchange value of 
the dollar would likely decline.  
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Some Committee members may see the level of  potential output as significantly below 
the level in the staff’s baseline scenario and may thus view additional policy accommodation— 
or even the accommodation currently in place—as mo re likely to result in inflationary pressures 
than in significant improvements in output and employment.  Indeed, those members might note 
that measures of core inflation have moved appr eciably higher over the last year, and they may 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 25 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
be concerned that inflation, over the medium term , could run above levels consistent with the 
dual mandate unless action is taken to reduce monetary accommodation.  They may also 
conclude that the current stance of monetary policy, including the matu rity extension program, 
poses an unacceptably large risk to the stability of inflation expectations.  
Moreover, members may judge that informa tion received since the September m eeting 
indicates that the recent increase in economic growth only partly reflects the reversal of  
transitory factors and that the unde rlying pace of recovery is stronge r than projected in the staff’s 
baseline forecast, perhaps along the lines of the “Faster Snapback” alternative simulation.  They 
may also view the downside risks to growth posed  by the strains in global financial markets as 
having moderated in recent weeks, and they may be lieve that liquidity facilities are a better tool  
than monetary policy for addressing the potential  difficulties those strains might create for the 
U.S. financial system.  Against this backdrop, me mbers may judge that the most appropriate step 
at this stage is to scale back  the pace and magnitude of the maturity extension program as 
outlined in Alternative C.  
If Committee members believe that the level of  potential output is appreciably lower than 
the staff estimates, or if they anticipate a stronger medium-term pickup in real activity than 
envisioned in the staff’s baseline scenario, th ey may see a significant ri sk that inflation will 
increase even if the maturity extension program is reduced in size.  If so, they may also judge it 
to be appropriate to change th e forward guidance to provide a gr eater degree of flexibility to 
begin removing policy accommodation in response to economic developments, as in paragraph 4 of Alternative C.  In particular, if economic growth picks up strongl y and rates of resource 
utilization increase steadily, some members may judge it ap propriate to begin withdrawing 
monetary policy accommodation well before mi d-2013 even though unemployment, at the time, 
might be well above the staff’s estimate of its  longer-run, mandate-consistent level.  These 
policymakers may be more comfortable stating a projection of the end of 2012, rather than mid-
2013, as the earliest likely date for an increase in the target fede ral funds rate.  Alternatively, 
they could specify an expected du ration of exceptionally low levels of  the federal funds rate of at 
least “four quarters,” rather than  the “six to seven quarters” pr oposed in Alternative B.  Some  
participants may also favor a statement that includ es the balanced final sentence in Alternative C, 
in which the Committee would state that it “will continue to assess the economic outlook in light 
of incoming information and is prepared to em ploy its tools as appropriate to promote its 
objectives of maximum employment  and stable prices,” rather than a statement that indicates the 
Committee is prepared to employ its policy tools “to promote a stronger economic recovery in a 
context of price stability”.   
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 26 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
A statement like that in Altern ative C would come as a considerable surprise to market 
participants, who appear to be expecting no change  in the policy stance at this meeting and who 
seem to place very low odds on the maturity extension program not being completed as 
announced in September.  Longer-term interest rates would likely rise further, and shorter-term  
rates would also move higher as market participants priced in a faster exit from the current 
accommodative policy stance.  Equity prices woul d likely fall, and the exchange value of the 
dollar would probably rise, although the increase could be tempered if the retreat of policy were 
viewed as severely contractionary. 
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 27 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
LONG-RUN  PROJECTIONS OF  THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE  
The staff has prepared three scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy alternativ es A1, A2, B, and C; although the language in the statements 
differs, Alternatives A1 and B share the same  baseline balance sheet projection.  Projections 
under each scenario are based on assumptions about the trajectory of various components of the 
balance sheet.  Details of these assumptions, as well as projections for each major component of 
the balance sheet, can be f ound in Explanatory Note C. 
For the balance sheet scenario that corresponds to Alternatives  A1 and B (the baseline), 
the Committee is assumed to continue the Ma turity Extension Program (MEP) announced in 
September, in which it will sell $400 billion (par value) of Treasury secu rities with remaining 
maturities of 3 years or less and purchase the same amount of securities with remaining  
maturities of 6 years or more by the end of J une 2012.  It is also assumed that the Committee 
reinvests the proceeds from principal repayments of its holdings of agency debt and MBS into 
agency MBS, while Treasury securities that mature are reinvested at auction according to the 
Desk’s current practice (reinves ting roughly proportionally across al l Treasury securities that are 
being issued on those dates).  These assumptions imply that th e System Open Market Account 
(SOMA) security holdings remain constant at  about $2.6 trillion, and the size of the balance 
sheet, which includes other assets in addition to the SOMA portfolio, holds roughly steady at about $2.9 trillion.  In March 2014, six months before the assumed first increase in the target 
Alternatives   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 28 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
federal funds rate, all security reinvestment ceases, and the bala nce sheet begins to contract 
appreciably.  In March 2015, roughly six months after the assumed first increase in the target 
federal funds rate, the Committee begins to sell its remaining holdings of agency MBS and 
agency debt securities at a pace that reduces th e amount of these securities in the portfolio to 
zero in five years—th at is, by February 2020.3, 4  This action, along w ith the cessation of 
reinvestment, normalizes the size of the balance sheet by August 2017. 5,6  
After reserve balances have reached the assum
ed $25 billion floor, the balance sheet 
begins to expand, with increases in holdings of  Treasury securities essentially matching the 
growth of Federal Reserve capital and notes in circulation.  The balance sheet reaches a size of 
$2 trillion by the end of 2020. 
In the scenario corresponding to Alternative A2, the Committee is also assumed to 
continue the MEP announced in September.  In addition, the Committee is assumed to decide to 
purchase a further $600 billion of  longer-term Treasury securiti es by the end of September 
2012.7  Furthermore, it is assumed that, until six mont hs prior to the liftoff in the target federal 
funds rate, principal payments on agency secu rities are reinvested in agency MBS, while 
principal payments from Treasur y securities that mature are re invested at auction.  As in 
Alternatives A1 and B, the target federal funds ra te is assumed to lift off in the third quarter of 
2014.  Sales of agency securities co mmence six months after the lifto ff in the target federal funds 
rate and reduce holdings to zero over five year s.  As a result of this policy action, SOMA 
security holdings peak at $3.2 trillion and total assets  peak at $3.6 trillion in September 2012.  
The higher path for SOMA under Alternative A2, primarily reflecting the $600 billion additional 
3 Given the maturity schedule of the agency debt securities held in the SOMA, the volume of sales 
necessary to reduce holdings of these securities to zero over the five-year period is minimal. 
4 It is possible that the communication strategy in Alternative A1 would induce the path of the 10-year 
Treasury yield to be slightly lower than what is in Altern ative B through the medium term.  If so, this could result in 
slightly higher prepayments for agency MBS in Alternative A1, which would change the mix of prepayments and 
sales that would be required to reduce the amount of MBS in the portfolio to zero over the five year period. 
5 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurcha se agreements and the Term Deposit Facility) are not 
modeled in any of the scenarios presented. Use of these tools would result in a shift in the composition of Federal 
Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corresponding increase in term reverse repurchase 
agreements or term deposits—but would not produce an overall change in the size of the balance sheet. 
6 The projected timing of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet depends importantly on the 
assumed level of reserve balances that is consistent with the conduct of monetary policy, which we take as $25 
billion.  A higher level of such reserve balances would, all else equal, lead to an earlier normalization of the size of 
the balance sheet. 
7 The projections presented here are based on the $60 0 billion Treasury purchase program.  Alternative A2 
also offered an option under which the Federal Reserve would purchase $300 billion of agency MBS and $300 
billion of Treasury securities by the end of June 2012. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
  
   
   
    
   
 
  
 
  
   
    
   
    
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 29 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
purchases of Treasury securities, postpones the no rmalization of the size of the balance sheet 
until the second quarter of 2018, two quarter s later than under the baseline.  
For the scenario that corresponds to Alterna tive C, the Committee is ass umed to modify 
the MEP that began in September by limiting th e program to $200 billion—half its announced 
size—and to complete these operations by the end of March 2012.  In addition, we assume that 
the Committee continues to reinvest the proceeds from maturing Treasury securities at auction 
and reinvest payments of principal from agency s ecurities in agency MBS.  In this scenario, the 
federal funds rate is assumed to lift off at the beginning of 2013, more than a year-and-a-half 
earlier than assumed in Alternatives A1, A2, and B.8  Reinvestment of principal from maturing 
or prepaying securities ends six months prior to federal funds ra te liftoff, in mid-2012.  Likewise, 
sales of agency securities under Alternative C commence in mid-2013, also earlier than in the 
baseline, and these sales also last for five year s.  The normalization of the size of the balance 
sheet occurs in mid-2016, more than  a year sooner than in the ba seline, primarily reflecting the 
earlier liftoff date of the federal funds rate. 
Under Alternatives A1 and B, the size of the balance sheet normalizes earlier than in the 
September Tealbook baseline projec tion.  The baseline projections  in both the current and 
previous Tealbooks assume agency securities will be sold over five years so that these holdings 
fall to zero by early 2020.  However, in th e last Tealbook, principal payments of agency 
securities in the near term were reinvested in  longer-term Treasury securities, some of which 
mature and roll off the balance sheet after 2020, while in the current Tealbook, principal 
payments of agency securities are reinvested in agency MBS, which roll off the balance sheet or  
are sold by 2020.  Under Alternative A2, the path for total assets remains noticeably above the 
baseline trajectory in the September Tealbook because of the additi onal large-scale asset 
purchase program.  Finally, for Alternative C, the balance sheet normalizes nearly two years 
earlier than the September Tealbook baseline due to the projected earlier liftoff of the target 
federal funds rate, the associated halt in the re investment of principal payments on securities 
holdings, and the commencement of asset sales.   From May 2018 onward, the paths for total 
assets in the current projections align with  the baseline path in the September Tealbook. 
8 The prepayment paths for agency MBS holdings and premiums calculations in Alternative C are based on 
the interest rate path used in Alternatives A1 and B.  This assumption may cause both prepayments and premiums to 
be somewhat overstated in Alternative C. If so, the estim ate of the size of the balance sheet will be biased upward 
and the date of normalization will be pushed a b it later, but likely not by an appreciable amount. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
  
   
     
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 30 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
On the liability side of the balance sheet, the forecasted paths for reserve balances for 
Alternatives A1 and B are lower after redempti ons begin than in the previous Tealbook until 
reserve balances fall to $25 b illion.  Under Alternative A2, reserve balances peak at $2.3 
trillion—more than $500 billion high er than in all other scenario s—by the end of the large scale 
asset purchase program.  Subsequently, the path for reserve balances under Alternative A2 falls 
to $25 billion in May 2018—roughly three quarters later than under Alternatives A1 and B, and 
nearly two years later than  under   Alternative C. 
In the scenario corresponding to Alternatives A1 and B, the monetary base is projected to 
start contracting in the sec ond quarter of 2013 and it continues to do so through the fourth 
quarter of 2017, reflecting the decline in reserv e balances.  Starting in the beginning of 2018, 
after reserve balances are assum
ed to have stab ilized at $25 billion, the monetary base expands 
again, in line with the growth of Fe deral Reserve notes in circulation. 
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 31 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Aug-10 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 
Sep-10 -10.2 -10.2 -10.2 -10.2 
Oct-10 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 
Nov-10 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 
Dec-10 16.8 16.8 16.8 16.8 
Jan-11 23.3 23.3 23.3 23.3 
Feb-11 57.6 57.6 57.6 57.6 
Mar-11 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 
Apr-11 74.4 74.4 74.4 74.4 
May-11 42.1 42.1 42.1 42.1 
Jun-11 35.9 35.9 35.9 35.9 
Jul-11 27.0 27.0 27.0 27.0 
Aug-11 2.0 2.0 2.0 3.6 Sep-11 -10.5 -10.5 -10.5 -10.3 
Oct-11 1.5 1.4 1.1 2.2 
Nov-11 10.6 24.6 9.7 15.2 
Dec-11 0.8 28.7 -0.1 4.5 
2010 Q3 -6.4 -6.4 -6.4 -6.4 2010 Q4 -3.2 -3.2 -3.2 -3.2 2011 Q1 36.8 36.8 36.8 36.8 2011 Q2 69.4 69.4 69.4 69.4 
2011 Q3 21.1 21.1 21.1 21.4 
2011 Q4 0.8 7.0 0.4 2.7 2012 Q1 2.4 28.5 1.5 12.5 
2012 Q2 7.1 31.9 5.4 7.7 
2009 52.5 52.5 52.5 52.5 2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 
2011 35.2 37.3 35.0 35.9 2012 3.1 26.3 -2.6 5.0 2013 -0.8 -0.9 -10.3 -1.2 
2014 -6.1 -5.4 -14.9 -4.9 
2015 -12.2 -12.7 -16.5 -9.3 
Note: Not seasonally adjusted. Monthly 
Quarterly 
Annual - Q4 to Q4 Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternatives B 
and A1 Alternative A2 
Percent, annual rate Alternative C Memo : 
September 
Tealbook 
Alternatives
   
     
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 32 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
DEBT,  BANK  CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial sector de bt is projected to increase at an annual rate of 5 percent 
in the fourth quarter of 2011, driven by continue d rapid expansion in federal government debt 
and a modest rise in private nonfinancial debt, before slowing to a 4¼ percent pace in 2012 and 
2013.  This moderation in debt growth reflects the projected slowdown in the rise in federal debt 
that begins in the first quarter of 2012 and ex tends through the projection period.  Nonfinancial 
business debt is forecast to continue rising mode rately over the forecast period, in part due to 
further increases in capital expenditures.  De spite historically low mortgage rates, home 
mortgage debt is projected to contract further in the next two quarters and th en to stay about flat 
through 2013.  Consumer credit is forecast to rise  moderately into earl y next year, and to 
gradually accelerate over the medium term.  The expansion in consumer cr edit is expected to 
outweigh slightly the contraction in mortgage debt in the near term.  The growth in household 
debt is then expected to pick up very slow ly over the forecast horizon, reaching a pace of only 
1¾ percent in 2013, still quite lo w by historical standards. 
Commercial bank credit is proj ected to increase moderately in the fourth quarter of 2011, 
and that pa
ce is expected to persist for the rest  of the forecast period.  Core loans—which include 
commercial and industrial (C&I), real estate, and consumer loan s—are generally expected to 
expand very modestly for most of 2012 a nd then accelerate gradually through 2013 as the 
restraint from still-stringent lending standards,  weak demand from high-quality borrowers, and 
ongoing balance sheet adjustments in the household se ctor is expected to slowly ease over the 
forecast horizon.  C&I loans are projected to in crease steadily over the next two years while 
lending to businesses backed by comm ercial real estate is expected  to contract, primarily due to 
poor market fundamentals and the weak credit quality of existing loans.  With respect to lending 
to households, residential real estate loans out standing on banks’ books are projected to remain 
largely unchanged through 2012 and to rise onl y slightly in 2013, reflecting subdued housing 
demand along with the factors noted above that ar e generally restraining core loan growth.  
Consumer loans are projected to increase moderately through the forecast period supported by the rise in spending on consumer durables.  Bank s’ securities holdings ar e anticipated to expand 
at a moderate pace that decreases gradually in the latter part of the forecast horizon as loan 
growth strengthens. 
After a robust increase in 2011, M2 is projected  to expand at an av erage annual rate of 
about 2½ percent over the forecast period, well be low the pace that would be predicted by the 
historical relationships of M2 with nominal in come and opportunity cost.  In the near term, 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 33 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
money growth is held down by the assumption th at households, institutional investors, and asset 
managers gradually begin to shift their portfolios away from safe M2 assets toward riskier assets 
outside of M2, as some of the financial market strains that contributed to rapid money growth 
this summer begin to fade.  Later in the for ecast period, improvements in both financial market 
conditions and the economic outlook are expected to  lead households and businesses to continue 
shifting their portfolios toward riskier assets, furt her damping the rise in M2.  Over the forecast 
period, liquid deposits are projected to expand at a solid rate, albe it well below the pace observed 
in recent years, while retail money market mutual funds and small time deposits are projected to 
contract.  Currency is expected to e xpand at its historic al average rate.  
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast* 
Jan-11 3.3 
Feb-11 8.3 
Mar-11 3.8 
Apr-11 4.3 
May-11 6.9 
Jun-11 11.7 
Jul-11 26.6 
Aug-11 30.0 
Sep-11 5.9 
Oct-11 4.3 
Nov-11 3.0 
Dec-11 2.0 
Quarterly Growth Rates 
2011 Q1 5.0 
2011 Q2 6.1 
2011 Q3 19.8 
2011 Q4 6.9 
Annual Growth Rates 
2010 3.2 
2011 9.8 
2012 1.9 
2013 3.0 
* This forecast is consistent with nominal GDP and interest rates in the Tealbook 
forecast. Actual data through October 2011; projections thereafter. Growth Rates for M2 
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
Alternatives   
       
    
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 34 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
DIRECTIVE  
The September directive appears below.  Drafts for a November directive corresponding 
to each of the four policy alternat ives appear on subsequent pages.  The directive for Alternatives 
A1 and B would instruct the Desk to take appropria te steps to continue to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, $400 billion of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 to 30 years and to 
sell an equal amount of existing Treasury holdings w ith remaining maturities of 3 years or less so 
as to increase the average maturity of the SOMA portfolio while leaving the total face value of  
domestic securities in the SO MA about unchanged.  The directive for Alternative C would 
instruct the Desk to reduce th e amount of these purchases and sales to a total level of $200 
billion each and to conduct these operations by the end of March 2012.  The directive for 
Alternative A2 would instruct the Desk to c ontinue conducting the matu rity extension program  
announced in September and to take  appropriate steps to raise th e total face value of domestic 
securities holdings to about $3.3 trillion, either by purchasing sufficient longer-term Treasury 
securities by the end of September 2012 or by pur chasing an equal mix of  longer-term Treasuries 
and agency MBS by the end of June 2012.  The Di rectives for all of th e alternatives would 
instruct the Desk to continue the current practi ce of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction and of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency MBS in agency 
MBS.   
September 2011 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To  further its long-run objectives, 
the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a 
range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee dire cts the Desk to purchas e, by the end of June 
2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 years with a 
total face value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasur y securities with remaining maturities of 3 
years or less with a total face value of $400 billion. The Committee also directs the Desk to 
maintain its existing policy of rolling over maturi ng Treasury securities into new issues and to 
reinvest principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the 
System Open Market Account in agency mortga ge-backed securities in order to maintain the 
total face value of domestic securities at a pproximately $2.6 trillion. Th e Committee directs the 
Desk to engage in dollar roll transactions as ne cessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal 
Reserve's agency MBS transactions. The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 35 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee's objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 36 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
November 2011 FOMC Directive — Alternative A1 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To  further its long-run objectives, 
the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a 
range from 0 to 1/4 percent. Th e Committee directs the Desk to continue the maturity 
extension program it began in September to  purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years with a total face value 
of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a 
total face value of $400 billion. Th e Committee also directs the De sk to maintain its existing 
policy ies of rolling over maturing Treasury se curities into new issues and to of reinvest ing 
principal payments on all agency debt and agen cy mortgage-backed securities in the System 
Open Market Account in agency mortgage-backed securities in order to maintain the total face 
value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion. The Committee directs the Desk to 
engage in dollar roll transactions  as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's 
agency MBS transactions. The System Open Ma rket Account Manager and the Secretary will 
keep the Committee informed of ongoing developm ents regarding the System's balance sheet 
that could affect the attainment over time  of the Committee's objectives of maximum 
employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
  
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 37 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
November 2011 FOMC Directive — Alternative A2 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To  further its long-run objectives, 
the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a 
range from 0 to 1/4 percent. Th e Committee directs the Desk to continue the maturity 
extension program it began in September to  purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years with a total face value 
of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a 
total face value of $400 billion. The Committee also directs the Desk to execute purchases of 
longer-term Treasury securities  in order to increase the to tal face value of domestic 
securities held in the System Open Market Account to approximately $3.3 trillion by the 
end of September 2012. The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policy ies 
of rolling over maturing Treasury se curities into new issues and to of reinvest ing principal 
payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market 
Account in agency mortgage-backed securi ties in order to maintain the total face value of 
domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion . The Committee directs the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to facilitate  settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS 
transactions.  The System Open Market Acc ount Manager and the Secr etary will keep the 
Committee informed of ongoing developments regard ing the System's balance sheet that could 
affect the attainment over time of the Committee' s objectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
OR 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To  further its long-run objectives, 
the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a 
range from 0 to 1/4 percent. Th e Committee directs the Desk to continue the maturity 
extension program it began in September to  purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years with a total face value 
of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a 
total face value of $400 billion. The Committee also directs the Desk to execute purchases of 
longer-term Treasury securities and of agency mortgage-backed securities of 
approximately equal face amounts in order to  increase the total face value of domestic 
securities held in the System Open Market Account to approximately $3.3 trillion by the 
Alternatives   
  
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 38 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
end of June 2012. The Committee also directs the Desk  to maintain its existing policy ies of 
rolling over maturing Treasury secu rities into new issues and to of reinvest ing principal 
payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market 
Account in agency mortgage-backed securities in order to maintain the total face value of 
domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion . The Committee directs the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to facilitate  settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS 
transactions.  The System Open Market Acc ount Manager and the Secr etary will keep the 
Committee informed of ongoing developments regard ing the System's balance sheet that could 
affect the attainment over time of the Committee' s objectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
Alternatives   
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 39 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
November 2011 FOMC Directive — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To  further its long-run objectives, 
the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a 
range from 0 to 1/4 percent. Th e Committee directs the Desk to continue the maturity 
extension program it began in September to  purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years with a total face value 
of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a 
total face value of $400 billion. Th e Committee also directs the De sk to maintain its existing 
policy ies of rolling over maturing Treasury se curities into new issues and to of reinvest ing 
principal payments on all agency debt and agen cy mortgage-backed securities in the System 
Open Market Account in agency mortgage-backed securities in order to maintain the total face 
value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion. The Committee directs the Desk to 
engage in dollar roll transactions  as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's 
agency MBS transactions. The System Open Ma rket Account Manager and the Secretary will 
keep the Committee informed of ongoing developm ents regarding the System's balance sheet 
that could affect the attainment over time  of the Committee's objectives of maximum 
employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
  
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 40 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
November 2011 FOMC Directive — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To  further its long-run objectives, 
the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a 
range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to  modify the maturity extension 
program it began in September so as to purchase, by the end of March June 2012, Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years with a total face value 
of $200 $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities w ith remaining maturities of 3 years or less 
with a total face value of $200 $400 billion. The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its 
existing policy ies of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and to of 
reinvest ing principal payments on all agency debt a nd agency mortgage-backed securities in the 
System Open Market Account in agency mortga ge-backed securities in order to maintain the 
total face value of domestic securities at a pproximately $2.6 trillion. Th e Committee directs the 
Desk to engage in dollar roll transactions as ne cessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal 
Reserve's agency MBS transactions. The System Open Market Account Manager and the 
Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee's objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
   
  
   
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 41 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 42 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Explanatory Notes  
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The concepts of the equilibrium real rate  reported in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate,” are defined as the level of the real federal funds rate th at is consistent with 
output at potential within a specified time horizon.  The short-run equilibrium rate is defined as 
the rate that would close the output gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal funds rate 
projected to prevail in seven years, under the assu mption that monetary policy acts to bring actual 
and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps them equal thereafter. 
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy— 
depend on data for major spending cat egories, prices and wages, and the 
federal funds rate as well as the model’s structure and estimate of the output gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the exogenous variables in the extended baseline 
forecast. 
Explanatory Notes  
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 43 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor, arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the federal 
funds rate and the trailing four-qua rter change in the core PCE pri ce index.  The federal funds rate 
is specified as the target federal funds rate on the Tealbook Book B publication date. 
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on t he proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimates of the real federal funds rates using alternative proxies: lagged 
core PCE inflation, which is used to construct th e actual real federal funds rate shown in the table 
that displays the r* measures; lagged four-quarter headline PCE inflation; and projected four-
quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  The table also displays the 
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate and the 
average of the projected real federal funds rate  over the next twelve quarters using each of the 
different proxies for expected inflation.  
Proxy used for  
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current val
ue) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Projected real 
funds rate 
(twelve-quarter-
ahead average) 
Lagged core inflation 1.5 3.3 1.4 
Lagged headline 
inflation 2.7 3.5 1.5 
Projected headline inflation 1.2 3.2 1.3 
Explanatory Notes   
  
  
 
 
    
    
    
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 44 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS   
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
௧ାଵݕ  and כ
௧െ  ݕ௧ ݕ one quarter ahead ( |௧ െ ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ ,)and the forecast of three-quarter-ahead annual 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ െ Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כ ,)and π* denotes an assumed value 
of policymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  The outcome-based and forecast-based rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the sample 1988:1 2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion.  Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point increments during the first three quarters of 
1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003). 
Outcome-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
Forecast-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
  ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
First-difference rule ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ 
FRB/US  MODEL SIMULATIONS  
Prescriptions from the outcome-based rule are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969 2009.  
Explanatory Notes   
 
  
 
   
  
        
  
        
 
 
   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 45 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL  MARKETS   
The expected funds rate path is based on quotes for federal funds and forward rate 
agreements as well as implied three-month fo rward rates from swaps, and the confidence 
intervals for this path are constructed using prices of interest rate  caps.  The computations use the 
staff’s baseline assumptions about term  premiums.  
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap.  The first-difference rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the estimated forecast-based 
rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-hand- side variable.  When the Tealbook is published 
early in the quarter, the lines denoted “Previous  Tealbook” report rule prescriptions based on the 
previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in  
the previous quarter.  When the Tealbook is publ ished late in the quarter, the lines denoted 
“Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescrip tions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff 
outlook, but jumping off from th e average value for the policy rate thus far this quarter 
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John  B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214.  
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341.  
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary  Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
Explanatory Notes   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 46 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
C. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section titled “Long-Run Projections of the Bala nce Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are construc ted at a monthly frequency from October 2011 
to December 2020.  The few balance sheet items that are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level observed on September 30, 2011.  The projections 
for all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the tables that 
follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projections for the scenarios co rresponding to Alternatives A1, A2, and B 
assume that the target federal funds rate begins to increase in September 2014, consistent with the 
monetary policy path in the Tealbook extension derived from the outcome-based rule, while the 
projection for the scenario corresponding to Altern ative C assumes the target rate lifts off in 
January 2013.  The balance sheet projections assume  that no use of short-term draining tools is 
necessary to achieve the projected path for the federal funds rate.1  
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency Mortgage-Backe d Securities (MBS), and Agency Debt 
Securities  
  The assumptions under Alternatives A1 and B are: 
o Beginning in  October 2011, the FOMC is assu med to sell $400 billion in par value of 
Treasury securities with remaining maturiti es of 3 years or less and to purchase the 
same par amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years or more.  
This activity takes place over 9 months.  
o  The FOMC will reinvest the proceeds fro m principal payments from its agency  
securities holdings primarily in newly issued agency  MBS in the To-Be-Announced 
(TBA) market.  Consistent with current pr actice, Treasury securities are rolled over at 
auction. 
o  Principal payments from Treasury securiti es and agency MBS and agency debt 
securities are reinvested until March 2014—six months prior to the assumed increase 
in the target federal funds rate.2  
1 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities woul d change: Reserve balances would fall as term 
deposits and reverse repurchase agreements rose.  Presumably, these draining tools would be wound down 
as the balance sheet returned to its steady state gr owth path, so that the pr ojected paths for Treasury 
securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
2 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflect interest rates as of October 25, 2011. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
                                                 
  
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 47 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
o  The Federal Reserve begins to sell agency  MBS and agency  debt securities in March 
2015, roughly six months after the assumed da te of the first increase in the target 
federal funds rate.  Holdings of agency  securities are reduced over five years and 
reach zero by February 2020. 
o  For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment is  based on staff models using estimates of 
housing market factors from one of the program’s investment managers, long-run 
average prepayment speeds of MBS, and interest rate projections from the Tealbook.3   
The projected rate of prepayment is  sensitive to these underlying assumptions. 
 In the scenario corresponding to Alternativ e A2, the Committee is assumed to begin 
purchasing longer-term Treasury securities at a rate of about $55 billion per month over eleven months in addition to those planned to be purchased in the MEP program.
4  In 
addition, the Committee is expected to main tain its policies of reinvesting principal 
payments from its holdings of agency securities into agency MBS and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.   
  In the scenario corresponding to Alternative C,  the Committee is expected to limit its 
previously announced MEP program so that it purchases $200 billion in long-term  
securities and sells $200 billion in short-term  securities, with operations completed by  
March 2012.  Principal payments from Treasury securities continue to be reinvested at auction and principal payments from  agen cy MBS and agency  debt securities are 
reinvested in agency MBS until July 2012.   
  Because current and expected near-term ra tes are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at which these securities are purchased 
will generally exceed their face value.  As a result, although the par value of securities 
holdings remains constant under Alternatives A1 and B, total assets, which include the 
premiums associated with the securities, will rise by about $40 billion.  Reserve balances 
will increase by the same amount.   
  The large-scale asset purchase program in Alternative A2 would put downward pressure on the 10-year Treasury  yield and result in mo re MBS prepayments than in the baseline.
5   
The lower path for the interest rate would also imply that purchases of Treasury securities 
would be made at prices that include a prem ium above their face value that exceeds the 
premium in the baseline. 
3 Projected prepayments on the existing stock of agency MBS are from a new FRBNY staff model 
that is based on the prepayment model of one of the investment managers; projected prepayments 
associated with expected future purchased agency MBS relies on a Board model that is based on the Bond 
Market Association prepayment model. 
4 The projections presented here are based on the $600 billion Treasury purchase program. 
Alternative A2 also offered an option under which the Federal Reserve would purchase $300 billion of 
agency MBS and $300 billion of Treasury securities. 
5 See the memo “Possible Large-Scale Asset Purc hase Program in the Treasury Market” by Board 
and FRBNY staff for more details of the estimated te rm premium effect associated with the $600 billion 
large-scale asset purchase program. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
                                                 
 
  
  
 
     
  
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 48 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
 In all scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  Once reserve 
balances drop to this level, the Desk first  purchases Treasury bills to ma
intain this level 
going forward.  Purchases of bills continue  until these securities comprise one-third of the 
Federal Reserve’s total Treasury security holdings—about the average share prior to the 
crisis.  Once this share is reached, the Federal Reserve buys notes and bonds in addition 
to bills to maintain an approximate compos ition of the portfolio of one-third bills and 
two-thirds coupon securities.  
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
  Loans through the Term  Asset -Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) peaked at $48 
billion in December 2009.  Credit extended thro ugh this facility declines to zero by the 
end of 2015,  reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
  The assets held by TALF LLC remain at about  $1 billion through 2014  before declining 
to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF LLC consist of investments of commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in connec tion with a decision of a borrower to not 
repay a TALF loan.  
  The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC and Ma iden Lane III LLC decline gradually over 
time.  The assets of Maiden Lane II LLC are assumed to roll off modestly through the first increase in the federal funds rate; sales of assets in Maiden Lane II LLC’s portfolio 
are assumed to resume subsequently, and hol dings gradually fall to zero by June 2015.  
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for mone y stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2013.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as in the extended Tealbook projection.  
  Over the next six months, the level of reverse repurchase agreements is assumed to 
decline to $70 billion, about the average level observed over the past three years. 
  The U.S. Treasury’s General Account (TGA) follows the staff forecast through March 
2012.6  Then, the TGA slowly drops back to its historical target level of $5 billion by  
January 2013 as it is assumed that the Treasu ry will implement a new cash management 
system and invest funds in excess of $5 billion.   The TGA remains constant at $5 billion 
over the remainder of the forecast period. 
6 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of 
both the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Treasury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are only $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is used as a 
proxy for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
                                                 
  
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 49 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
  We maintain the Supplementary  Financing Account (SFA) balance at its current level of 
zero throughout the forecast. 
  Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
  In general, increases in the level of Federa l Reserve assets are matched by  higher levels 
of reserve balances.  Increases in the levels  of liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or other liabilities, or increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, 
drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise 
cause reserve balances to fall below $25 b illion, purchases of Treasury securities are 
assumed in order to maintain th at level of reserve balances.  
 In the event that a Federal Reserve Bank’s earnings fall short of the amount necessary to cover operating costs, pay  dividends, and equa te surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred 
asset will be recorded.  This deferred asset is  recorded in lieu of reducing the Reserve 
Bank’s capital and is reported on the liability  side of the balance sheet as “Interest on 
Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”   This liability takes on a positive value 
when weekly  cumulative earnings have not yet been distributed to the Treasury, while 
this liability takes on a negative value when earnings fall short of the expenses listed above.  In the projections, System-wide earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses, and this line item is set to zero. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 50 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
Sep 30, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,853 3,546 3,310 2,385 1,778 1,985 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 11 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 11 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 47 46 32 18 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 47 46 32 18 7 4 
Securities held outright 2,644 3,234 3,066 2,198 1,629 1,854 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,665 2,255 2,175 1,651 1,432 1,854 
Agency debt securities 108 77 39 16 2 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 871 902 852 531 195 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 150 261 211 170 142 126 
Total liabilities 2,801 3,476 3,218 2,263 1,616 1,770 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 996 1,070 1,203 1,351 1,498 1,652 
Reverse repurchase agreements 84 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,656 2,318 1,928 826 33 33 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,597 2,306 1,920 819 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 56 10 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 3 3 3 3 3 3 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 
to U.S. Treasury 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 52 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A2
 
Page 51 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
Sep 30, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,853 2,878 2,681 1,923 1,778 1,985 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 11 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 11 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 47 46 32 18 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 47 46 32 18 7 4 
Securities held outright 2,644 2,634 2,487 1,772 1,657 1,877 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,665 1,655 1,597 1,226 1,460 1,877 
Agency debt securities 108 77 39 16 2 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 871 902 852 530 195 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 150 192 160 133 114 104 
Total liabilities 2,801 2,808 2,588 1,800 1,616 1,770 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 996 1,070 1,203 1,351 1,498 1,652 
Reverse repurchase agreements 84 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,656 1,650 1,299 364 33 33 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,597 1,637 1,291 356 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 56 10 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 3 3 3 3 3 3 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 
to U.S. Treasury 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 52 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternatives B and A1
 
Page 52 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
Sep 30, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,853 2,696 2,088 1,592 1,778 1,985 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 11 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 11 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 47 46 28 18 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 47 46 28 18 7 4 
Securities held outright 2,644 2,480 1,924 1,461 1,671 1,888 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,665 1,595 1,356 1,218 1,671 1,888 
Agency debt securities 108 77 39 16 0 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 871 809 529 227 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 150 164 135 113 100 93 
Total liabilities 2,801 2,625 1,995 1,469 1,616 1,770 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 996 1,070 1,203 1,351 1,498 1,652 
Reverse repurchase agreements 84 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,656 1,468 706 33 33 33 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,597 1,455 699 25 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 56 10 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 3 3 3 3 3 3 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 
to U.S. Treasury 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 52 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
 
Page 53 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 27, 2011
Page 54 of 54
Authorized for Public Release