 Prefatory Note 
 
 
T
he attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable p rovisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.  
Content last modified 02/03 /2017.   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 Class I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
June 16, 2011 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Strategies 
The staff’s estimates of short-run r*—the real federal funds rate that, if 
maintained, would return output to its poten tial in twelve quarter s—generally declined 
over the intermeeting period; by historical sta ndards, these estimates of the equilibrium  
real federal funds rate remain low, and most  are below the estimated actual real federal 
funds rate.  The downward revisions in r* reflect the staff’s assessment that the economic 
outlook has weakened, resulting in output ga p projections that are wider than in the 
previous Tealbook.1  As shown in the first two colu mns of the table in the exhibit 
“Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate,” the estimates of short-run r * generated from the 
FRB/US model and the EDO model that are conditioned on the staff outlook and 
estimates of the output gap (that is, the “T ealbook-consistent” estimates) decreased 70 
and more than 100 basis points, respectively.2  By contrast, the estimates of r* produced 
by these models based on their own output projections and by th e single-equation and 
small structural models have ch anged little since the April Tealbook.3  
The staff has marked up its near-term pr ojection
 for core PCE inflation somewhat 
but also expects greater slack in the labor market over the next several years.4  On 
balance, the policy prescriptions from optimal  control simulations of the FRB/US model 
using the extended staff baseli ne projection now call for a sl ightly lower path for the 
federal funds rate than in th e previous Tealbook.  This resu lt is shown in the exhibit 
“Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Polic y,” which is based on simulations of the 
FRB/US model that assume policymakers place equal weight on keeping core PCE 
inflation close to 2 percent, on keeping th e unemployment rate close to the effective 
NAIRU, and on minimizing changes in the federal funds rate.  As has been true for some 
time, the simulations indicate that the optimal  path of policy is affected significantly by 
1 For a discussion of these revisions, see Book A of the Tealbook. 
2 The EDO model has been respecified and reestima ted since the April Tealbook.  To facilitate 
comparison with current Tealbook estim ates, the reported “Previous Tealbook” r* estimates generated with 
the EDO model refer to estimates computed using the new model specification applied to the data available 
at the time of the April Tealbook . 
3 The estimate of r* generated by the single-equation model rose 20 basis points from the April 
Tealbook because this model’s projections jump off from staff estimates of the output gap in late 2010 and 
the first quarter of 2011 , and these estimates narr owed a bit since April. 
4 The staff’s baseline forecast inco rporates the effects of the Fede ral Reserve’s large-scale asset 
purchases as announced in November, and these effect s are held at their baseline levels in the optimal 
policy simulations. 
Strategies  
                                                 
  
  
 
    
   
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 1 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
 
Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US) Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate 
Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals Percent 
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation 
Range of four model-based estimates 
70 Percent confidence interval 
90 Percent confidence interval 8
 
6
 4
 2
 0
 
-2
 -4
 -6
 -8
 -10
 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
 
-10-8-6-4-202468 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
( (
   
( (
   
  
   
(  
   
 
   
(
   
  
   Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures 
Current Tealbook Previous Tealbook 
Short-Run Measures
 Single-equation model -1.6 -1.8
 Small structural model -1.1 -1.1
 EDO model -0.4 -0.5
 FRB/US model -2.7 -2.5
 Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval -3.2 to 0.3
 90 percent confidence interval -4.2 to 1.2
 Tealbook-consistent measures
 EDO model -1.9 -0.8
 FRB/US model -2.2 -1.5 
Medium-Run Measures
 Single-equation model 1.1 1.0
 Small structural model 1.1 1.2
 Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval 0.2 to 2.0
 90 percent confidence interval -0.4 to 2.6
 TIPS-based factor model 1.8 2.0 
Memo
 Actual real federal funds rate -1.0 -0.7 
Note: Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals. The actual real federal funds rate shown is based on lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation expectations.
For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A. Since April, the EDO model has been
re-specified and re-estimated. EDO estimates for the "Previous Tealbook" have been computed from the revised model,
using the data available at the time of the April Tealbook. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 2 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
-6-4-202468  
-8-6-4-2024  
34567891011  
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0  Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy 
(2 Percent Inflation Goal) 
Nominal Federal Funds Rate 
Percent
 
8
 
Current Tealbook: Constrained 
Previous Tealbook: Constrained Current Tealbook: Unconstrained 
6
 
4
 
2
 0 
-2 -4 
-6 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 
Civilian Unemployment Rate 
Percent
 
11
 
10
 
9
 8
 
7
 
6
 5
 4
 
3
 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 Real Federal Funds Rate 
Percent
 
4
 
2
 
0 
-2 
-4 
-6 
-8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 
Core PCE Inflation 
Four-quarter average Percent 
3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
0.5 
0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 3 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
the lower-bound constraint on the nominal fede ral funds rate.  With this constraint 
imposed, the funds rate does not begin to ri se appreciably until the first quarter of 2014, 
about one quarter later than in the April Tealbook.  Even with this slightly more 
stimulative path for the federal funds rate, th e unemployment rate remains above the staff 
estimate of the effective NAIRU  until the third quarter of 2014, and core inflation stays 
slightly below the assumed 2 percent objectiv e until the first quarter of 2015 (black solid 
lines).5  If the nominal funds rate could fall be low zero, the optimal nominal funds rate, 
according to this exercise, would decline to  about negative 2 percent in 2012, before 
returning to positive levels early in 2014 (b lue dashed line), thereby yielding somewhat 
more favorable macroeconomic conditions th an those depicted in the constrained 
simulation.   
As shown in the exhibit “Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations,” the 
expected funds rate implied by the estim ated outcome-based policy rule moves 
appreciably away from its effective lowe r bound in the first quarter of 2013, about two 
quarters later than in the previous Tealbook.6  In addition, the rule prescribes a lower path 
for policy in 2013 and 2014 than in the Apr il Tealbook, reflecting the staff’s revised 
projections for the output gap and real GDP growth.    
As shown to the right, information from fi nancial markets suggests th at investors’  
expectations for the path of the federal funds rate have sh ifted down noticeably since the 
last Tealbook.  Market participants now expect  the federal funds rate to move above the 
current target range in the f ourth quarter of 2012, about two quarters later than in the 
April Tealbook.  Thereafter, the funds rate rises gradually toward 2 percent by the end of 
2014, about 100 basis points lower th an in the previous Tealbook.7  
The lower panel of the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from simple 
policy rules.  As shown in th e left-hand colum
ns, prescripti ons from most of the rules 
remain at the effective lower bound.  The right-hand columns displa y the prescriptions 
that would arise from these rules in th e absence of the lower-bound constraint.  
Reflecting the upward revision to  the projection of core infl ation in the near-term, both 
5The staff’s estimate of the effective NAIRU falls from  6½ percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 6 
percent by the first quarter of 2013, and then to 5¼ percent by the end of 2015, as the extended 
unemployment benefits expire and labor market functioning progressively improves. 
6 This rule is used to set the longe r-run baseline path for the federal fu nds rate in the Tealbook forecast. 
7 The path shown here corresponds to the “mean” funds rate path noted in Book A; the modal path for 
the funds rate is below the “mean” path and implies a co nsiderably flatter trajector y for the funds rate over 
coming quarters. 
Strategies   
                                                 
     
   
    
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 4 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations 
2011 2012 2013 2014 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Percent 
Note:  In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is 
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. For rules which have the lagged policy rate as a right-hand-side variable, the lines denoted "Previous Tealbook Outlook" report rule prescriptions based 
on the previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, but jumping off from the average value for the policy rate thus far in the quarter. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule 
Note: As in the March Tealbook, the staff baseline projection for the federal funds rate is based on the outcome-
based policy rule. Accordingly, the top-left panel does not report a separate series for the staff’s projected funds rate. 
In both panels, the dark and light shading represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively. 
Financial market quotes are as of June 15. Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Memo 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Percent Information from Financial Markets 
Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy 
2011Q3 2011Q4 2011Q3 2011Q4 
Taylor (1993) rule 0.45 0.90 0.45 0.90
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.52 0.03 0.52 
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -2.25 -1.73
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -2.66 -2.00 
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.02 -0.15
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13 -0.09 -0.19 
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13 0.02 -0.15
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13 0.00 -0.06 
First-difference rule 0.31 0.46 0.31 0.46
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.52 0.94 0.52 0.94 
2011Q3 2011Q4 
Staff assumption 0.13 0.13 
Fed funds futures 0.10 0.11 
Median expectation of primary dealers 0.13 0.13 
Blue Chip forecast (June 1, 2011) 0.20 0.20 
Strategies0123456789  
0123456789  
 
 
  
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 5 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
the Taylor (1993) and Taylor (1999) rules pres cribe a higher federal funds rate than in 
April.  In contrast, the first-difference rule , which looks beyond the recent pickup in core 
inflation and is more influenced by the weak er outlook for economic activity, prescribes a 
lower federal funds rate than in April.  With the exception of the Taylor (1993) rule and 
the first-difference rule—which  responds to the staff’s proj ections for inflation and the 
change  in the output gap without regard fo r the still-elevated level of slack—all 
unconstrained prescriptions take values that  are at or below the effective lower bound.8   
8The prescription from the estimated forecast-based rule in the thir d quarter of 2011 is also positive in 
the third quarter of 2011 though below the effective lower bound of 0.125 percent.  Both this rule and the 
first-difference rule depend on the lagged federal funds rate, defined as the actual policy rate observed thus far this quarter.  If instead the lagged values used in generating rule prescriptions had not been constrained 
by the effective lower bound from becoming negative in 2009 and 2010, the prescriptions from both these 
rules would be negative in both the third and fourth quarter of this year. 
Strategies   
                                                 
 
      
    
    
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 6 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  Compared with th e April statement, these alternatives all 
incorporate important structur al changes.  The discussion of inflation focuses on the 
behavior of overall inflati on, rather than “underlying” inflation.  In addition, under the 
proposed new format, the first paragraph outlines key information on economic activity 
and inflation received since the previous FOMC meeting, while the second paragraph 
presents information on the Committee’s outlook for unemployment and inflation relative 
to values consistent with the Federal Re serve’s mandate for maximum employment and 
stable prices.1  
With regard to key policy actions, all three altern
atives would confirm that the 
purchase of $600 billion of l onger-term Treasury securities will be completed by the end 
of June.  Under both Alternatives A and B,  the Committee would continue its policy of 
reinvesting principal payments  from its securities holdings, but under Alternative C, the 
Committee would announce that it will discontinue the reinvestment policy in July as part 
of “a gradual reduction in the current extrao rdinary degree of policy accommodation.”  
Alternative B states that the Committee will regularly review the size and composition of 
its securities holdings and that it is prepared to adjust those holdings “as appropriate.”  In 
contrast, Alternative A indicates that the Committee is prepared to expand securities 
holdings “if needed.”  In a ddition, Alternative A states th at economic conditions are 
likely to warrant maintenance of the reinve stment policy at least through mid-2012.  Each 
of the three alternatives woul d maintain the existing target range for the federal funds 
rate.  Alternative B retains the “extended period” language  for the funds rate, while 
Alternative A states that economic conditions will likely warrant exceptionally low levels 
for the funds rate at least through the end of 2012.  Alterna tive C would indicate that the 
Committee anticipates that excep tionally low funds rates will  be warranted “for some 
time,” thus signaling that the Committee anticipates raising its target for the federal funds 
rate sooner than markets currently expect.  
1 A mockup of statement language featuring these changes was circulated by the Chairman to 
Committee participants on May 24, 2011. A considerable amount of text that appeared in the April FOMC 
statement is not used in the draft statements in this Tealbook.  Consequently, the presentations of 
Alternatives A, B, and C that appear below do not include strikeouts of April statement material. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
 
  
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 7 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
The statement language in Alternativ e B acknowledges recent weak data on 
economic activity but reiterates  that the Committee continues  to expect progress toward 
more satisfactory rates of unemployment and inflation.  Alternative B states that 
incoming information indicates that the recove ry is continuing “somewhat more slowly” 
than the Committee had expected.  It also  notes  evidence su ggesting a “loss of 
momentum in the labor market.”  The draft statement attributes the slower-than-expected pace of recovery in part to the impact of  higher food and energy prices on consumer 
spending as well as supply chain disruptions asso ciated with the tragic events in Japan.   
Alternative B indicates that the Committee e xpects the pace of the recovery to pick up 
and unemployment to resume its gradual declin e toward mandate-consistent rates.  In 
referring to the recent pickup in inflation, Alte rnative B states that this increase mainly 
reflects higher prices for some commodities  and imported goods, as well as the recent 
supply chain disruptions, and not es that inflation expecta tions have been stable.  
Alternative B goes on to say that, as the eff ects on inflation of past energy and other 
commodity price increases dissipate, inflati on will likely subside to rates at or below 
mandate-consistent levels.   
The draft statement under Alternative A supports a shift toward increased 
accomm 
odation by indicating greater concern about the economic outlook and somewhat 
less concern about prospects for inflation.  It focuses on recent weakness in economic 
activity, stating that the recovery is c ontinuing “more slowly” than the Committee 
expected, and indicating that the downside risks to the outlook have increased somewhat.  
With regard to inflation, Alte rnative A states that the pa ss-through of commodity prices 
to the prices of non-energy consumer goods a nd services has been relatively limited.  
Omitted from Alternative A is Alternative B’s indication that the Committee will “pay  
close attention to the evolu tion of inflation and infla tion expectations.”     
Alternative C supports the initiation of the remova l of policy accommodation by 
emphasizing the potential for a buildup of inflat ion pressures.  Alternative C notes that 
the pick-up in inflation has occurred as fi rms have faced cost pressures from increased  
commodity prices and as import prices have ri sen.  The draft statement also indicates that 
upside risks to inflation have increased somewhat.   
The next two pages contain a table that s hows key elements of the alternatives.  
The table is followed by complete draft stat ements, then by a summary of the arguments 
for each alternative.  
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 8 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
   
     
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
    
  
  
   
 
  
 
    
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 Table 1: Overview of Alternatives for the June 22 FOMC Statement 
Key 
Components April 
Statement June Alternatives 
A B C 
Economic Activity 
Economic Recovery proceeding at a moderate pace continuing at a 
moderate pace, 
though more slowly 
than the Committee 
had expected continuing at a moderate pace, though 
somewhat more slowly than the Committee 
had expected 
slower pace of the recovery reflects in part some factors likely to be 
temporary, including the damping effect of higher food and energy 
prices on consumer purchasing power and spending as well as supply 
chain disruptions associated with  the tragic events in Japan 
Labor Market overall conditions in 
the labor market are improving gradually number of indicators 
suggest a loss of 
momentum in the 
labor market some indicators suggest a loss of momentum 
in the labor market 
unemployment rate 
remains elevated unemployment rate remains elevated 
Household Spending continues to expand continues to expand; damping effect of higher food and energy prices 
on purchasing power and spending 
Inflation 
Recent 
Developments inflation has picked up in recent months; measures of 
underlying inflation 
still subdued and somewhat low inflation has picked up in recent months; 
inflation has moved up recently 
expectations have remained stable expectations have remained stable 
increases in the prices of energy and 
other commodities 
have pushed up inflation in recent 
months pick-up mainly reflects higher prices 
for some commodities and imported goods, 
as well as recent 
supply chain disruptions; relatively 
limited pass-through 
to non-energy consumer prices pick-up mainly reflects higher prices for some commodities 
and imported goods, 
as well as recent supply chain 
disruptions firms are facing cost 
pressures from 
increased commodity 
prices and import 
prices have risen 
Committee will pay 
close attention to 
inflation and 
inflation expectations n.a. Committee will continue to pay close attention 
to inflation and inflation expectations 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 9 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
   
    
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
 Table 1: Overview of Alternatives for the June 22 FOMC Statement 
(continued ) 
Key 
Components April 
Statement June Alternatives 
A B  C 
Outlook 
Outlook Committee 
continues to 
anticipate gradual 
return to higher 
levels of resource 
utilization in context 
of price stability Committee expects pace of recovery  to pick up over coming 
quarters and unemployment to resume its gradual decline 
increased downside 
risks to economic 
outlook n.a. 
Committee expects 
effects of 
commodity price 
rises on inflation to 
be transitory Committee anticipates inflation will subside to levels at or below 
those consistent with the Committ ee’s dual mandate as the effects 
on inflation of past energy and other commodity price increases 
dissipate 
n.a. increased upside risks to inflation 
Federal Funds Rate Target Range 
Intermeeting 
Period 0 to ¼ percent 0 to ¼ percent 
Forward Guidance  exceptionally low levels for an 
extended period exceptionally low 
levels at least through the end of 
2012 exceptionally low 
levels for an 
extended period exceptionally low 
levels for some time 
SOMA Portfolio Policy 
Approach complete purchase 
program by end of 
June complete purchase program by end of June 
maintain reinvestment policy maintain reinvestment policy at least through mid­
2012 maintain 
reinvestment policy end reinvestment 
policy in July 
Future Policy Action 
Asset Purchases / 
Holdings will regularly review the size and 
composition of its 
securities holdings 
and prepared to adjust as needed will regularly review securities 
holdings; will 
expand if needed will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and prepared to 
adjust as appropriate 
Overall will continue to 
monitor economic 
outlook and 
financial developments; will 
employ tools to 
support recovery and help ensure 
inflation at mandate-
consistent levels will monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and 
will act as needed to best foster maximum employment and price 
stability 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 10 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
APRIL  TATEMENT FOMC S  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in March 
indicates that the economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace and overall 
conditions in the labor market are impr oving gradually.  Household spending and 
business investment in equipment and so ftware continue to expand.  However, 
investment in nonresidential structures is s till weak, and the housing sector continues 
to be depressed.  Commodity prices have risen significantly since last summer, and 
concerns about global supplies of crude oil have contributed  to a further increase in 
oil prices since the Committee met in Ma rch.  Inflation has picked up in recent 
months, but longer-term infla tion expectations have remain ed stable and measures of 
underlying inflation are still subdued.  
2. Consistent with its statutory ma ndate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The une mployment rate remains elevated, and 
measures of underlying inflation continue to be somewhat low, relative to levels that 
the Committee judges to be consistent, over the longer run, with its dual mandate.  
Increases in the prices of energy and othe r commodities have pushed up inflation in 
recent months.  The Committee expects these ef fects to be transitory, but it will pay 
close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations.  The 
Committee continues to anticipate a gradual return to higher levels of resource 
utilization in a context of price stability. 
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic rec overy and to help ensure that inflation, 
over time, is at levels consistent with  its mandate, the Committee decided today to 
continue expanding its holdings of securi ties as announced in November.  In 
particular, the Committee is maintaining its  existing policy of re investing principal 
payments from its securities holdings and will complete purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of the current quarter.  The Committee will 
regularly review the size and composition of  its securities hold ings in light of 
incoming information and is prepared to adjust  those holdings as needed to best foster 
maximum employment and price stability.  
4. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal funds  rate at 0 to 1/4 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds rate for an extended 
period. 
5. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy t ools as necessary to  support the economic 
recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its 
mandate.  
Alternatives   
    
  
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 11 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 JUNE FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A 
1. 	Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April 
suggests  that the economic recovery is continuing  at a moderate pace , though more 
slowly than the Committee had expected. Moreover, a number of indicators 
suggest a loss of momentum in the la bor market.  The slower pace of the 
recovery reflects in part some factors that  are likely to be temporary, including 
the damping effect of higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing 
power and spending as well as supply chain disruptions associated with the 
tragic events in Japan.  Household spending and business investment in equipment 
and software continue to expand. However, investment in nonresidential structures is 
still weak, and the housing sect or continues to be depresse d.  Inflation has picked up 
in recent months, mainly reflecting higher prices  for some commodities and 
imported goods, as well as the recent supply chain disruptions . Although firms 
are facing cost pressures from high commodity prices, the pass-through into the 
prices of non-energy consumer goods and services has been relatively limited, 
and longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. 
2. 	Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Th e unemployment rate remains elevated ; however, 
the Committee expects the pace of recovery to pick up over coming quarters and 
the unemployment rate to resum e its gradual decline toward levels that the 
Committee judges to be consis tent with its dual mandate.  The Committee perceives 
that the downside risks to the economic outlook have increased somewhat. Inflation has moved up recently, but  the Committee anticipates that inflation will 
subside to levels at or below those cons istent with the Committee’s dual mandate 
as the effects on inflation of past energy and other commodity price increases dissipate. 
3. To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent  with its mandate, the Committee is keeping the target 
range for the federal funds ra te at 0 to ¼ percent and now anticipates  that economic 
conditions—including low rates of  resource utilization and a subdued outlook for 
inflation over the medium run —are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for 
the federal funds rate at least through the end of 2012 . The Committee  likewise 
anticipates that economic conditions will warrant the maintenance of its existing 
policy of reinvesting principal paymen ts from its securities holdings at least through 
mid-2012. The Committee will complete its purchases of $600 bill ion of longer-term 
Treasury securities by the end of this month . The Committee will regularly review 
the size and composition of its securi ties holdings and is prepared to expand  those 
holdings if needed . 
4. 	The Committee will monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and 
will act  as needed to best foster maxi mum employment and price stability.  
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 12 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
JUNE FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April 
indicates that the economic recovery is continuing  at a moderate pace , though 
somewhat more slowly than the Committee had expected .  Some indicators also 
suggest a loss of momentum in the la bor market.  The slower pace of the 
recovery reflects in part some factors that  are likely to be temporary, including 
the damping effect of higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing 
power and spending as well as supply chain disruptions associated with the 
tragic events in Japan. Household spending and business investment in equipment 
and software continue to expand.  However, investment in nonresidential structures is 
still weak, and the housing sect or continues to be depresse d.  Inflation has picked up 
in recent months, mainly reflecting higher prices  for some commodities and 
imported goods, as well as the recent supply chain disruptions .  However, longer-
term inflation expectations have remained stable. 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Th e unemployment rate remains elevated ; however, 
the Committee expects the pace of recovery to pick up over coming quarters and 
the unemployment rate to resum e its gradual decline toward levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Inflation has moved up 
recently, but  the Committee anticipates that inflation will subside to levels at or 
below those consistent with the Committe e’s dual mandate as the effects on 
inflation of past energy and other commodity price increases dissipate .  
However, the Committee will continue to  pay close attention to the evolution of 
inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with it s mandate, the Committee decided today to 
maintain the current degree of monetary policy accommodation .  In particular, 
the Committee will keep  the target range for the federa l funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to anticipate that economic conditions—inclu ding low rates of resource 
utilization and  a subdued outlook for  inflation over the medium run —are likely to 
warrant exceptionally low levels for the fe deral funds rate for an extended period.  
The Committee will complete  its purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury 
securities by the end of this month and will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments from its securities holdi ngs.  The Committee wi ll regularly review 
the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those 
holdings as appropriate . 
4. The Committee will monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and 
will act  as needed to best foster maxi mum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 13 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   JUNE FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1. 	Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April 
indicates that the economic recovery is continuing  at a moderate pace , though 
somewhat more slowly than the Committee had expected . Some indicators also 
suggest a loss of momentum in the la bor market.  The slower pace of the 
recovery reflects in part some factors that  are likely to be temporary, including 
the damping effect of higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing 
power and spending as well as supply chain disruptions associated with the 
tragic events in Japan.  Household spending and busin ess investment in equipment 
and software continue to expand. However, investment in nonresidential structures is 
still weak, and the housing sect or continues to be depresse d.  Inflation has picked up 
in recent months, as firms are facing cost pressures from increased commodity 
prices and import prices have risen . Longer-term inflation expectations have 
remained stable. 
2. 	Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Th e unemployment rate remains elevated ; however, 
the Committee expects the pace of recovery to pick up over coming quarters and 
the unemployment rate to resum e its gradual decline toward levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Inflation has moved up 
recently, but  the Committee anticipates that inflation will subside to levels at or 
below those consistent with the Committe e’s dual mandate as the effects on 
inflation of past energy and other commodity price increases dissipate . 
However, the upside risks to inflat ion have increased somewhat, and the 
Committee will continue to  pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and 
inflation expectations. 
3. 	In order  to help ensure that economic activity and  inflation, over time, are at levels 
consistent with its mandate, the Committee decided today to keep  the target range for 
the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and anticipate s that economic conditions— 
including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for  inflation over 
the medium run —are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds 
rate for some time . The Committee will complete  its purchases of $600 billion of 
longer-term Treasury secu rities by the end of this month . In July, the Committee 
will begin a gradual reduction in the current extraordinary degree of policy 
accommodation by discontinuing its policy of reinvesting principal payments from 
its holdings of agency securities and Treasury securities . The Committee will 
regularly review the size and composition of it s securities holdings and is prepared to 
adjust those holdings as appropriate . 
4. 	The Committee will monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and 
will act  as needed to best foster maximu m employment and price stability.   
   
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 14 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B  
Despite the weaker-than-expected economic data releases received over the 
intermeeting period, policymake rs may view the medium-term outlook for real activity 
and inflation as having changed only modestl y, on balance, since the April meeting.  
Committee members, like the staff, may see the economy picking up over coming 
quarters, and the unemployment rate gradually returning to levels consistent with the 
Committee’s dual mandate.  Likewise, Committ ee members may take the view that a 
decline in inflation to mandate-consistent leve ls is already in train.  Moreover, members 
may judge that the outlook for inflation ove r the medium run remains subdued, noting the 
presence of a number of forces —including stable inflation exp ectations, a flat profile for 
commodity prices going forward, and consider able slack in labor and product markets— 
that are likely to result in inflation falling to rates at or below manda te-consistent levels.  
Against this backdrop, Committee members migh t favor a statement along the lines of 
Alternative B, announcing that the Committee has decided to maintain the current degree 
of monetary policy accommodation by comp leting the $600 billion Treasury purchase 
program, keeping the Federal Reserve’s securities portfolio at the level reached following the completion of the program, and continuing to indicate that th e federal funds rate 
target will be exceptionally low for an extended period.
2    
The Committee m
ay judge that maintenance of the existing degree of policy 
accommodation is an appropriate response to  the current economic outlook.  Committee 
members may believe that the tragic events in  Japan likely had a larger downward effect 
on the U.S. economy in the second quarter than  was anticipated earlier and continue to 
expect much of that effect to be reversed  in the coming quarter.  Policymakers may, in 
addition, view energy market developments as less likely to damp economic activity going forward.  The Committee may therefore j udge that a significant step-up in real 
GDP growth is in prospect for the second half of the year as several of the recent sources 
of downward pressure on economic activity dissipate.  As a result, Committee members 
may conclude that information received on economic activity since the April meeting 
2 The extent to which holding constant the size of the Federal Reserve's securities portfolio maintains 
the current degree of accommodation over time depends partly on expectations about the timing for the 
process of balance sheet normalization. If investors believe that the balance sheet will begin to decline earlier than previously expected, that would represent an implicit policy tightening.  Even if the expected timing of balance sheet normalization is unchanged, simply getting closer to the date at which the Federal Reserve is expected to begin returning the size of the balance sheet to normal will tend to boost term 
premiums and raise longer-term interest rates in the staff’s model.  See the box titled “Declining Stimulus 
from Large-Scale Asset Purchases” for a mo re complete discussion of this issue. 
Alternatives   
                                                    
   
 
   
   
    
    
    
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 15 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Declining Stimulus from Large‐ Scale Asset Purchases            
The  FOMC’s  program  of  large‐scale  asset  purchases   appears  to  have  reduced  
term  premiums,   thereby  lowering  long‐term  interest  rates,  boosting   asset  prices,  
and  stimulating   real  activity.   Of  course,  estimates   of  these  term  premium   effects  
are  highly  uncertain.    Consistent   with  some  simple  theoretical   models,  the  staff  
has  assumed  that  the  effect  on  the  term  premium   of  SOMA  holdings  of  longer‐
term  securities   is  proportional   to  a  discounted   value  of  the  ratio  of  Federal  
Reserve  holdings  to  nominal  GDP  relative  to  the  average  historical   ratio  of  
Federal  Reserve  holdings  to  nominal  GDP.1   The  forward‐ looking  nature  of  this  
term  premium   effect  implies  that  it  declines  in  size  as  investors   anticipate   that  
the  normalization   of  the  balance  sheet  is  drawing  nearer,  even  if  SOMA  holdings  
of  longer‐term  securities   have  not  yet  changed.    
The  chart  on  the  left  shows  the  projected   evolution  of  longer‐term  SOMA  
security  holdings  under  the  baseline  balance  sheet  scenario.    The  baseline  
balance  sheet  projections   assume  that  SOMA  holdings  begin  to  decline  in  March  
2012  with  the  cessation   of  the  reinvestment  of  principal  payments   on  securities;   
sales  of  assets  from  the  portfolio  begin  in  mid‐2013.   Assuming   that  both   actual  
and  expected   Federal  Reserve  securities   holdings  follow  this  trajectory   over  time,   
the  chart  on  the  right  shows  the  path  of  the  staff’s  estimate  of  the  associated   
term  premium   effect.   As  can  be  seen,  the  magnitude  of  the  term  premium  effect  
is  projected   to  decline  from  about  50  basis  points  in  late  2010  to  25  basis  points  
by  late  2012  even  though  the  size  of  the  balance  sheet  remains  constant  until  the  
first  quarter  of  next  year.   The  decline  in  the  term  premium   effect  reflects  the  
greater  importance  of  the  lower  future  values  of  holdings  relative  to  GDP  as  the  
period  covered  in  the  calculation   shifts  forward  in  time.   However,  if  market  
participants   revise  their  expectations   for  the  timing  of  the  normalization   of  the  
balance  sheet  by  pushing  it  further  off  into  the  future  as  time  passes,  then  these  
term  premium   effects  would  not  fade  as  rapidly  or  could  even  increase.  
1 The details of the model are described in the April 21, 2010, memo to the FOMC “Quantitative 
Analysis of the Macroeconomic Effects of Alternative Strategies for Managing the Federal 
Reserve’s Asset Holdings” by Jane Ihrig, Elizabeth Klee, Andrew Levin, David Lopez Salido, 
Edward Nelson, Min Wei, David Reifschneider, Thomas Tallarini, and Antonella Tutino. 
Alternatives    
     
 
                                                 
                                  
                       
                       
                       
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 16 of 42
‐
Authorized for Public Release
does not call for a change in the degree of  policy accommodation, and they therefore may 
be inclined to adopt a stat ement like Alternative B.   
Some Committee members may see greater grounds for concern about the 
outlook.  They ma
y view the intermeeting data  as having raised the prospect that the 
improvement in overall labor market conditions  could stall in the near term while the 
underlying pace of household spending remains weak.  Members may see the optimal  
control simulations presented in the “Mone tary Policy Strategies” section of the 
Tealbook, which continue to call for significan t near-term policy easing, as reinforcing 
the case for providing additional monetary po licy accommodation.  However, participants 
may also judge that the potential costs of  expanding the Federal Reserve’s securities 
holdings further or providing firmer forward guidance regarding the federal funds rate 
outweigh the likely benefits.  For example,  policymakers might be concerned that 
increasing the degree of policy accommoda tion could leave the Committee unable to 
tighten rapidly enough if the economy began to expand briskly.  Alternatively, they may 
fear that the very high level of reserve balances currently in place could boost inflation 
expectations and so lead to higher actual inflation.  As a result, even policymakers who 
see the downside risks to the outlook for economic growth as having increased somewhat may take the view that further evidence of  a significant downshift in the pace of 
economic activity is required before it woul d be prudent for the Committee to take steps 
to increase the degree of policy accommodati on.  These participants might therefore 
favor an announcement along the lines of Alternative B at this meeting. 
Policymakers may also judge that the intermeeting news on inflation does not 
justify a change in the degree of monetary policy accommodation.  Increases in the prices 
of energy and other commodities and in the prices of imported goods have boosted 
overall inflation for much of this year, but  the effects on inflati on of past energy and 
other commodity price increases are likely to dissipate.  Recent upward pressure on 
motor vehicle prices, associated with supply chain disruptions, should also recede.  In 
addition, subdued unit labor costs,  reflecting considerable slack  in labor markets, should 
continue to be a restraining influence on inflation.  Member s may further note that both 
survey and market-based measures of longer-term inflation expect ations have changed 
little, on balance, over the course of the year  so far.  Committee members may conclude 
that a wide variety of indicat ors—stable longer-term inflation expectations, low levels of 
resource utilization, and low rates of increase in indexes of core prices and non-energy 
costs—point to a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium term.  Accordingly, 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 17 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Committee members may judge that main taining the current degree of policy 
accommodation, as in Alternative B, would help  ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate.  Even if policymakers were more 
concerned about the risk of a continuation of inflation rates in excess of mandate-
consistent levels, they may see a reducti on in the degree of policy accommodation as 
appropriate only if such concerns were rein forced by additional data on inflation and 
inflation expectations, and so favor for now a statement like Alternative B.   
 A statement along the lines of Alternative B would be unlikely to surprise ma rket 
participants.  The Desk’s recent survey of  primary dealers indicated that respondents 
expected the Committee to retain the “extended period” language for th e funds rate and to 
confirm that the asset purchase program w ill be completed as scheduled and that the 
reinvestment policy will be maintained.  Accordingly, although there might be some  
initial volatility in re sponse to the fairly extensive changes in the statement language, the 
release of a statement like Alternative B would likely resu lt in little lasting change in  
bond yields, equity prices, or the foreign exch ange value of the dollar.  Of course, the 
Chairman’s press conference will provide an  opportunity to answ er questions about 
changes in the language, structure, a nd other elements of the statement. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A  
Policymakers may view the information received since the April meeting as 
suggesting that it is fairly likely that additional policy accommodation will be needed in 
order to promote outcomes consistent w ith the Federal Reserve’s dual mandate.  
Consequently, members might judge that it is desirable for the June statement to convey 
the Committee’s readiness to expand the Fede ral Reserve’s holdings of securities if  
needed and to provide forward guidance about the reinvestment policy, as in Alternative 
A.  Together with these indications con cerning its future secu rities holdings, the 
Committee might wish to provide more e xplicit forward guidance about the likely 
duration of the period of exceptionally low fe deral funds rates to help prevent longer-
term interest rates from rising ra pidly as the recovery progresses. 
Policymakers may regard the information received since the April meeting as 
adding to evidence that the economic recovery has softened.  While acknowledging that some of the factors that have  restrained economic activity in  the second quarter are likely 
to prove transitory, Committee participants may also see a number of factors that are 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 18 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
likely to cause a more persistent slowing of  the pace of the economic recovery, including  
weaker-than-expected growth in disposable pe rsonal income and the persistent low level 
of consumer confidence.  Moreover, some  participants may view the backup in the 
unemployment rate, the recent elevated leve l of initial claims, and the disappointing 
payrolls increase in May as indications that  overall labor market conditions are improving 
at a significantly slower rate than previously  or even have stopped improving altogether.  
In addition, the housing market remains extremely depressed and the risk of significant 
dislocations in Europe have likely increased  since the April meeting.  Policymakers may 
also be concerned about the possible impact on growth and employment of a larger-than-
anticipated fiscal contraction.  Against this backdrop, participants may have significantly 
downgraded their assessment of the medi um-run economic outl ook, perhaps along the 
lines of the “Weaker Recovery” alternative simulation.  As a result, they may judge that 
provision of an increased degree of moneta ry policy accommodation could well prove 
necessary in the near future, leading them to favor a statement like Alternative A.  
Other participants may view a return to a mo re acceptable pace of recovery as the 
most likely outcome, but see the risks to th e outlook for real activ ity as having shifted 
importantly to the downside.  These policym akers may view the modifications to the 
statement language in Alternative A as  a prudent reaction to recent economic 
developments.  They may regard a clear indication that the Co mmittee recognizes the 
downside risks to the outlook and stands rea dy to ease monetary pol icy appropriately as 
especially important when, as now, the scope for fiscal policy to respond flexibly to 
developments in the outlook is severely circumscribed.  Members may see a statement  along the lines of Altern ative A as likely to bolster c onfidence and so strengthen the 
recovery, even if no further easing step is ultimately required.   
While noting that inflation has recently exceeded levels that the Committee 
regards as consistent with its mandate, polic ymakers may view the outlook for inflation 
over the medium run as subdued, especially given the amount of resource slack they 
anticipate over the projection period and the continuing signs that longer-term inflation 
expectations are well anchored.  Indeed, having marked down their outlook for growth 
and employment, policymakers may view the main risks to inflation over the projection  
period as being to the downside, with a significant danger that inflation will persistently fall below mandate-consistent levels over co ming quarters.  Consequently, policymakers 
may feel that both the employ ment and price stability components of the dual mandate 
justify a statement along the lines of Alternative A. 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 19 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
An announcement indicating that the Committee is prepared to expand its 
securities holdings, accompan ied by the provision of str onger forward guidance, would 
surprise market participants.  Longer-term  yields could decline, although the decline 
might be restrained if investors perceived the statement as adding to the upside risks to 
inflation.  Equity prices woul d probably rise, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar 
would likely decline.  
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C  
Members may believe that the extrao rdinary degree of monetary policy 
accommodation provided in recent years, including the soon-to-be-completed purchase program, has already put in place sufficient support for the economic recovery.  As a 
result, they may judge that the most impor tant contribution that monetary policy can 
make going forward is to ensure that longer-term inflation ex  pectations remain stable.  
They may see this as helping to fulfill the dual mandate both by ensu ring that inflation is 
Alternatives   
     Committee members may view the slower-than-expected progress of the 
recovery so far this year as largely or wholly attributable  to temporary factors.  For 
example, they may view the disruptions to auto production and sales associated with the 
tragic events in Japan as a particularly im portant factor behind the recent softness in 
economic activity, and see a near-term rebound as highly likely.  Policymakers may 
further judge that accommodative financial conditions are likely to underpin an 
acceleration of economic activity  in the second half of th is year.  Indeed, some  
Committee members may see a sizable probability that real activity will pick up strongly, 
accompanied by a rise in inflation, perhaps al ong the lines of the “Stronger Recovery” 
alternative simulation.  Alterna tively, some members may see a risk of a further pickup of 
inflation because they believe that potent ial output over the medium term will prove 
considerably lower than previ ously thought, as in the “Labor Market Damage” alternative 
simulation.  If Committee participants judge th at output growth is likely to step up and 
that there is a significant risk  that inflation will continue at elevated levels or even 
increase further, they may feel that it is appr opriate at this juncture to begin the gradual 
process of withdrawing the current extr aordinary degree of monetary policy 
accommodation.  As the first steps in that process, members may favor an announcement 
that the Committee’s reinvestment policy will be discontinued, combined with the 
removal of the “extended period” language for the federal funds rate , along the lines of 
Alternative C. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 20 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
at mandate-consistent levels over the inte rmediate term and by providing a stable 
background for a sustainable recovery in real activity.  Policymakers  may feel that the 
current degree of monetary pol icy accommodation jeopardizes the stability of inflation 
and inflation expectations.  For example, they may view the current degree of policy 
accommodation as increasing the danger that firms will raise the extent to which they pass through to consumer prices the higher costs arising from recent increases in the 
prices of commodities and imported goods.  If so, participants might conclude that the Committee can best foster its dual mandate by taking the first step in withdrawing 
monetary policy accommodation, along the lines outlined in Alternative C. 
In addition, some participants may believe that the removal of the “extended 
period” language regarding the funds ra te would contribute to the longer-term  
achieveme 
nt of the Committee’s dual manda te by supporting financial stability.  
Participants might feel that the economy is more prone to asset price misalignments when 
the federal funds rate is very low and the Committee indicates that it is likely to remain 
so, and they might view such misalignments as  a major obstacle to th e achievement of the 
Committee’s dual mandate in the long run.  Policymakers might regard a curtailment of 
the statement’s forward guidance for the funds  rate as helpful in fostering market 
expectations of a more normal funds rate over time, thereby contributing to the 
prevention of destabilizing asset market behavior.  Such an outlook would provide 
additional support for a statement like that in Alternative C. 
A statement that replaced the “extend ed period” language  and announced the 
discontinuation of the reinvestment progr am would completely surprise market 
participants.  As a result, longer-term interest rates would likel y increase, although the 
Committee’s move to tighten policy sooner than investors currently anticipate might lead to some reduction in inflation compensation.  Stock prices would lik ely decline, and the 
foreign exchange value of the dollar would probably increase. 
Alternatives   
     
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 21 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE    
The staff has prepared two scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy Alternatives A, B, and C; although the language in the 
statements differs, Alternatives A and B have the same balance sheet projection.  Projections under each scenario  are based on assumptions ab out various components of 
the balance sheet.  Details of these assump tions, as well as projections for each major 
component of the balance sheet, can be found in Explanatory Note C.  
For the scenario that corr esponds to Alternatives A and B, we assume that the 
FOMC completes the announced $600 billion ex pansion of its holdings of longer-term 
Treasury securities by the end of the s econd quarter of 2011.  The purchases bring 
System Open Market Account (SOMA) holdings to roughly $2.6 trillion and the size of the balance sheet, which includes other assets in addition to the SO MA, to $2.9 trillion.  
This scenario assumes that the proceeds from principal repayments from Treasury 
securities and agency securities continue to be reinvested in Treasury securities until the 
March 2012 Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting at which point the 
balance sheet begins to contract.  In June 2013, roughly six months after the assumed first 
increase in the target federal funds rate, the Committee begins to sell its remaining 
holdings of agency MBS and agency debt secu rities at a pace that reduces the amount of 
these securities in the portfo lio to zero in five years—that is, by the end of the second 
Alternatives   
    
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 22 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
quarter of 2018.3, 4  This action along with the cessati on of reinvestments results in the 
normalization of the size of th e balance sheet by November 2015.5         
After reserve balances have reached the assume
d $25 billion floor and the $5 
billion in the U.S. Treasury’s Supplementary  Financing Account (SFA) has been drained, 
the balance sheet begins to expand, with in creases in holdings of Treasury securities 
prim
arily matching the growth of Federal Reserve capital and notes in circulation.6  The 
balance sheet reaches a size of near ly $2 trillion by the end of 2020.  
Under Alternative C, the FOMC is assumed to cease reinvesting principal 
payments on securities held in the SOMA portfolio in July 2011, about eight months 
earlier than assumed in Alternatives A and B.  Similarly, sales of agency securities 
commence in November of 2012, seven months earlier than assumed in Alternatives A 
and B. The size of the balance sheet peaks at just under $2.9 trillion when the purchase 
program ends and immediately begins to decl ine as both Treasury and agency securities 
mature or prepay.     
Compared with the April Tealbook baseline projection, total assets in Alternatives 
A and B are roughly at the same level un til December 2011 when security redemptions 
were assumed to begin last round. 7  In the current Tealbook, security redemptions do not 
begin until March 2012.  As a result, the curren t projection for total assets lies above the 
projection in the April Teal book from December 2011 until the fourth quarter of 2015.  
From this point onward, the size of the balanc e sheet is normalized, a nd the path for total 
assets aligns with the path in the April Tealbook.  On the liability side of the balance 
sheet, the forecasted path for reserve balances  is higher than in the previous Tealbook  
3 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the volume of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five year period is minimal. 
4 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurc hase agreements and the Term Deposit Facility) are 
not used in any of the scenarios presented.  Use of these tools would result in a shift in the composition of 
Federal Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corresponding increase in term reverse repurchase agreements or term deposits—but would not produce an overall change in the size of the balance sheet.  
5 The assumed timing of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet depends importantly on the 
assumed level of reserve balances that is consistent with the conduct of monetary policy.  A higher level of reserve balances would, all else equal, lead to an earlier normalization of the size of the balance sheet. 
6 The SFA is held constant at $5 billion until it is drained to zero to maintain the $25 billion floor on 
reserve balances.  
7 In the near term, the lower interest rate path in this Tealbook implies more mortgage-backed 
securities (MBS) prepayments, which reduces MBS holdings.  Since the Desk is reinvesting the 
prepayments into Treasury securities, this implies a la rger share of Treasury securities holdings than in the 
last Tealbook but no change to the size of total securities holdings.  
Alternatives   
                                                    
 
   
 
     
  
  
     
 
     
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 23 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
until the fourth quarter of 2015 when reserve balances fall to $25 billion.  The change in 
the forecast for reserve balances reflects  a downward revision to the projected SFA 
balance.  Given the large degree of un certainty over Congressional willingness to 
increase the debt ceiling by a significant amount, the SFA balance is assumed to remain 
at its current level of $5 billion rather than return to $200 billion by September 2011 as 
was assumed in the last Tealbook.  If th e Congress does raise the debt ceiling 
significantly and if the Treasury increases the funds in the SFA, reserve balances would 
be reduced dollar for dollar. 
After expanding in 2011, on net, the mone tary base is projected to contract 
through 2015 in Alternatives A, B, and C,  reflecting the downward trend in reserve 
balances associated with
 the dec line in Federal Reserve assets.  
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 24 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Aug-10 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 
Sep-10 -10.1 -10.1 -10.1 
Oct-10 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 
Nov-10 3.2 3.2 3.2 
Dec-10 16.8 16.8 16.8 
Jan-11 23.3 23.3 23.3 
Feb-11 57.6 57.6 57.6 
Mar-11 97.8 97.8 99.1 
Apr-11 74.4 74.4 81.5 
May-11 42.1 42.1 56.6 
Jun-11 39.6 39.5 31.7 
Jul-11 31.1 21.7 12.8 
Aug-11 5.5 -9.9 -20.8 
Sep-11 -14.4 -27.5 -49.4 
Oct-11 -7.6 -20.2 -19.4 
Nov-11 7.6 -5.8 5.9 
Dec-11 7.4 -6.5 -4.1 
2010 Q3 -6.4 -6.4 -6.4 2010 Q4 -3.2 -3.2 -3.2 
2011 Q1 36.8 36.8 37.0 2011 Q2 69.8 69.8 75.4 
2011 Q3 23.6 15.3 7.1 
2011 Q4 -2.7 -15.8 -18.9 2012 Q1 5.6 -6.4 -6.0 2012 Q2 -11.5 -13.2 -12.7 
2009 52.5 52.5 52.5 
2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 
2011 34.9 27.9 25.9 2012 -8.7 -12.2 -11.9 2013 -16.3 -18.4 -18.0 
2014 -16.5 -17.6 -20.3 
2015 -21.0 -10.3 -7.3 
Note: Not seasonally adjusted. Monthly 
Quarterly 
Annual - Q4 to Q4 Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternatives A 
and B Alternative C Memo : April 
Tealbook 
Percent, annual rate 
Alternatives   
       
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 25 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial sector debt is projected to increa se at an annual rate of 3½ 
percent in the second quarter of this year, reflecting a rapid expansion in federal 
government debt and a tepid rise in pr ivate nonfinancial debt.  Although federal 
government debt reached its statutory limit in  May, the staff forecast assumes that the 
limit will be raised in a timely manner be fore the Treasury’s “extraordinary measures” 
are exhausted in early August (see box “Deb t Subject to Limit” in Tealbook Book A).  
Domestic nonfinancial debt is expected to accelerate over the remai nder of this year and 
next, on balance, to an average annual p ace of about 5¼ percent,  largely reflecting a 
gradual pickup in the growth of private nonfin ancial debt.  Despite low mortgage rates, 
home mortgage debt is projec ted to contract further in th e second half of 2011 and to be 
about flat in 2012; housing de mand is expected to remain weak amid elevated 
unemployment and tight mortgage credit conditions.  Consumer credit is projected to post 
a small gain this quarter and then gradually accelerate in coming quarters in response to 
increases in the growth of spending on consumer  durables.  Nonfinancial business debt is 
expected to rise at a moderate pace over the forecast period, reflecting the ongoing 
expansion of capital expenditures. 
We expect commercial bank credit to be about flat in the current quarter, as a 
continued decline in loans r oughly offsets a rise in securities holdings.  Over the 
remainder of the year, the in crease in bank credit is expe cted to be constrained by 
ongoing balance sheet pressures, still-stringen t lending standards, and a lack of demand 
from high-quality borrowers for certain type s of loans.  By 2012, however, we expect 
these factors to gradually abate and bank cred it to accelerate.  Commercial and industrial 
loans are projected to increase steadily through the forecast period as a result of a 
continued rise in investment outlays and a further gradual easing of banks’ lending 
standards and terms.  However, commercial re al estate loans are e xpected to contract 
throughout the same period, reflecting persis tently weak market fundamentals and 
elevated charge-offs, but the rate of decline is  anticipated to lessen over time.  Turning to 
household lending, residential real  estate loans on banks’ books  are projected to decline 
through 2011 but edge up slightly during 2012, with  gains driven in part by lower charge-
offs.  Consumer loans are expected to increase modestly over the second half of 2011 and 
2012, supported by a pickup in consumer spendi ng and reduced losses in credit card 
portfolios.  Banks’ securities holdings are forecasted to expand at a moderate pace 
through 2012. 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 26 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
After growing at about the same pace as nominal GDP in the first half of this 
year, we project M2 to decelerate over th e forecast period, recording growth of 3½ 
percent for 2011 as a whole and 2½ percent in 2012.  The forecast assumes that 
households will slowly shift th eir portfolios toward higher-y ielding investments outside 
of M2 in the second half of this year and well into next year as the economic recovery 
gains strength.  Thereafter, w ith households’ portfolio reallo cation completed in the third 
quarter of next year, M2 is expected to expand in line with projections based on its 
historical relationship with nominal income  and opportunity costs.  Within M2, currency 
is expected to expand at around its long-run average rate over the forecast period.  The 
runoff in small time deposits and retail mone y market mutual funds is expected to 
diminish through 2012, while the increase in liquid deposits is projected to slow 
significantly from the robust pace seen since 200 9.  We have assumed that the repeal of 
Regulation Q, which is scheduled to be e ffective next month and will allow depository  
institutions to pay interest on demand de posits, will have a minimal effect on liquid 
deposits, and hence the level of M2, over the forecast period.  In the current environment, 
interest-bearing demand deposits would presumably have rates that are essentially zero, 
and with unlimited insurance on noninterest-b earing demand deposits, there appears to be 
little incentive for banks or their customers to make substantial changes in their 
behavior.8    
8 On December 31, 2010, the Federal Deposit Insurance Company (FDIC), pursuant to the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, bega n to fully insure noninterest-bearing transaction 
accounts, including demand deposits, at all FDIC-ins ured institutions for a two-year period ending 
December 31, 2012.  Other deposit accounts, such as inte rest-bearing transaction accounts, continue to be 
subject to the regular $250,000 insurance limit. 
Alternatives   
                                                    
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 27 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
M2 Growth Rates 
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast* 
Dec-10 4.0 
Jan-11 2.7 
Feb-11 7.4 
Mar-11 2.9 
Apr-11 4.5 
May-11 7.4 
Jun-11 5.7 
Jul-11 2.4 
Aug-11 1.6 
Sep-11 1.4 
Oct-11 1.2 
Nov-11 1.1 
Dec-11 1.0 
Quarterly Growth Rates 
2010 Q4 5.6 
2011 Q1 4.3 
2011 Q2 5.2 
2011 Q3 3.4 
2011 Q4 1.2 
Annual Growth Rates 
2009 5.0 
2010 3.2 
2011 3.6 
2012 2.5 
* This forecast is consistent with nominal GDP and interest rates in the 
Tealbook forecast.  Actual data through May 2011; projections thereafter. 
Alternatives   
    
    
 
 
    
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 28 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
DIRECTIVE  
The April directive appears below.  Draf ts for a June directive corresponding to 
each of the three policy altern atives appear on subsequent pages.  The directives for 
Alternatives A and B would instruct the De sk to complete purchases of longer-term  
Treasury securities to implement the $600 bill ion increase in the SOMA’s securities 
holdings by the end of June 2011 while also co ntinuing the current po licy of reinvesting 
principal payments on SOMA securities.  These directives also instruct the Desk to keep 
the total face value of domestic securities  holdings after June 2011 at the approximate 
level attained by the purchase program.  The di rective for Alternative C likewise calls for 
the completion of the previously announced  purchase program, but then instructs the 
Desk to cease all reinvestment of principal payments from agency and Treasury securities 
from July 2011 onward. 
April 2011 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6 trillion by the end of June 2011.  The Comm ittee also directs the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of  
maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
    
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 29 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
June 2011 FOMC Direct ive — Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute complete  purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury secu rities in order to 
increase the total face valu e of domestic securities held in the System Open M arket 
Account to approximately $2.6 trillion  by the end of June 2011 this month .  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policy of  reinvest ing principal 
payments from agency debt and agency mortgage- backed on all domestic securities in 
the System Open Market Account  in longer -term Treasury securities in order to 
maintain the total face value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion .  
The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
Alternatives   
     
 
   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 30 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
June 2011 FOMC Direct ive — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute complete  purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury secu rities in order to 
increase the total face value of domestic securities held in the System Open Market 
Account to approximately $2.6 tri llion by the end of June 2011 this month .  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policy of  reinvest ing principal 
payments from agency debt and agency mortgage- backed on all domestic securities in 
the System Open Market Account  in lon ger-term Treasury securities in order to 
maintain the total face value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion .  
The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
Alternatives   
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 31 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
June 2011 FOMC Direct ive — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute complete  purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury secu rities in order to 
increase the total face value of domestic securities held in the System Open Market 
Account to approximately $2.6 trillion  by the end of June 2011 this month .  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to  cease all reinvestment of  principal payments from 
agency debt and agency mortgage -backed securities in longer -term Treasury  on domestic 
securities in the System Open Market Account from the beginning of July 2011 . The 
System Open Market Account Manager a nd the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
Alternatives   
     
 
   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 32 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Explanatory Notes  
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The concepts of the equilibrium real rate  reported in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate,” are defined as the level of the real federal funds rate th at is consistent with 
output at potential within a specified time horizon.  The short-run equilibrium rate is defined as 
the rate that would close the output gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal funds rate 
projected to prevail in seven years, under the assu mption that monetary policy acts to bring actual 
and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps them equal thereafter. 
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy— 
depend on data for major spending cat egories, prices and wages, and the 
federal funds rate as well as the model’s structure and estimate of the output gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the extended baseline. 
Explanatory Notes  
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 33 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor, arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the federal 
funds rate and a four-quarter change in the core PCE price index.  If the upcoming FOMC 
meeting falls early in the quarter, the four-quart er change in core PCE prices from the preceding 
quarter is used to measure inflation.  The federal funds rate is specified as the target federal funds 
rate on the Tealbook publication date. 
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on t he proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimates of the real federa l funds rates using alternative proxies:  lagged 
core PCE inflation, which is used to construct th e actual real federal funds rate shown in the table 
that displays the r* measures; lagged four-quarter headline PCE inflation; and projected four-
quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  The table also displays the 
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate and the average actual real federal funds rate over the next twelve quarters using each of the different 
proxies for expected inflation. 
Proxy used for  
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current val
ue) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Average actual 
real funds rate 
(twelve-quarter 
average) 
Lagged core inflation -1 -2.2 -0.8 
Lagged headline 
inflation -2.2 -2.4 -1 
Projected headline inflation -1.2 -2.2 -0.8 
Explanatory Notes   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 34 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS   
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
௧ାଵݕ  and כ
௧െ  ݕ௧ ݕ one quarter ahead ( |௧ െ ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ ,)and the three-quarter-ahead forecast of annual 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ െ Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כ ,)and π* denotes an assumed value 
of policymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  The outcome-based and forecast-based rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the samp le 1988:1-2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion. Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point  increments during the first three quarters of 
1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003). 
Outcome-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
Forecast-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
  ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
First-difference rule ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ 
FRB/US MODEL SIMULATIONS   
Prescriptions from the two empirical rules are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969-2008.  
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL MARKETS    
The expected funds rate path is based on Eurodollar quotes and implied three-month 
forward rates from  swaps, and the confidence interv als for this path are constructed using prices 
of interest rate caps.  
Explanatory Notes   
 
  
 
    
  
        
  
        
 
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 35 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap.  The first-difference rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the estimated forecast-based 
rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-ha nd-side variable. When the Tealbook is published 
early in the quarter, the lines denoted “Previous  Tealbook” report rule prescriptions based on the 
previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in  
the previous quarter. When the Tealbook is publ ished late in the quarter, the lines denoted 
“Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescrip tions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff 
outlook, but jumping off from th e average value for the policy rate thus far this quarter 
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John  B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214.  
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341.  
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary  Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
Explanatory Notes   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 36 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
C. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section entitled “Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are constructe d on a monthly frequency from June 2011 to 
December 2020.  The few balance sheet items th at are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level ob served on May 31, 2011.  The projections for all 
major asset and liability categories under each scen ario are summarized in the tables that follow 
the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate begins to increase in the 
fourth quarter of 2012, one quarter later than in the April Tealbook.  The balance sheet 
projections assume that no use of short-term draining tools is necessary to achieve the projected 
path for the federal funds rate.1  
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency MBS, and Agency Debt Securities  
 The assumptions under Alternatives A and B are  
o Purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Tr easury securities are completed in June 
2011.   
o Principal payments from T reasury securities continue to be reinvested until March 
2012.  
o Principal pa yments from agency MBS and agency debt securities are reinvested in 
longer-term Treasury securities until March 2012.2    
o All purchases of Treasury securities are execu ted using a maturity distribution similar 
to that currently used by the Desk.3  
1 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities woul d change: Reserve balances would fall as term 
deposits and reverse repurchase agreements rose.  Presumably these draining tools would be wound down 
as the balance sheet returned to its steady state gr owth path, so that the pr ojected paths for Treasury 
securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
2 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflec t interest rates as of June 14, 2011.   
3 Because current and expected near-term intere st rates are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at  which these securities ar e purchased will generally 
exceed their face value.  Reserve bala nces will increase by the market value, whereas securities holdings as 
reported in the H.4.1statistical rel ease will increase by the face value; th e implied premiums are recorded as 
“other assets.”  These premiums decline gradually fr om $77 billion at the end of 2011 (2.9 percent of 
SOMA assets) to $16 billion at the end 2020 (0.9 percent of SOMA assets). 
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
  
 
                                                 
  
 
   
 
 
 
     
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 37 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
o Beginning after the March 2012 Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, 
the Committee is assumed to cease reinvesti ng principal payments on securities held 
in the SOMA profolio.   
o The Federal Reserve begins to sell agency  MBS and agency  debt securities in June 
2013, roughly six months after the assumed da te of the first increase in the target 
federal funds rate.  Holdings of agency  securities are reduced over five years and 
reach zero by the end of the second quarter of 2018.   
o For agency MBS, the rate of prepa yment  is based on estimates of housing market 
factors from  one of the program’s investment  managers and interest rate projections 
from the Tealbook.  The projected rate of prepayment is sensitive to these underlying 
assumptions. 
 Under Alternative C, purchases of $600 billion of longer-term  Treasury securities are 
completed in June 2011, as is the case in Altern atives A and B.  Beginning in July 2011, 
however, the FOMC is assumed to cease re investing principal payments on securities 
held in the SOMA profolio.  Sales of ag ency securities commence in November 2012, 
seven months before sales begin under Alternatives A and B. 
 In the scenarios, a mini mum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  To maintain 
reserve balances at this level, first the U.S. Treasury’s  Supplementary Financing Account 
(SFA) balance is reduced to zero.  After the SFA balance is exhausted, Treasury  bills are 
purchased.  Purchases of bills continue un til these securities comprise one-third of the 
Federal Reserve’s total Treasury security holdings–about the averag e level in the period 
prior to the crisis.  Once this level is re ached, the Federal Reserve buys notes and bonds 
in addition to bills to mainta in an approximate composition of the portfolio of one-third 
bills and two-thirds  coupon securities.  
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
 Loans through the Term  Asset -Backed Securities Loan Fac ility (TALF) peaked at $48 
billion in December 2009.  Credit extended thro ugh this facility declines to zero by the 
end of 2014,  reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
 The assets held by TALF LLC increase to $1.0 billion by  the end of 2011 and remain at 
this level through 2014 before declining to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF 
LLC consist of investments of commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. 
Treasury’s initial funding.  In this proj ection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-
backed securities received by the Federal R eserve Bank of New York in connection with 
a decision of a borrower to not repay a TALF loan.  
 The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC and Ma iden Lane III LLC decline gradually over 
time.  The assets of Maiden Lane II LLC fall to zero by April 2012 as securities are 
auctioned off.     
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 38 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2012.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as projected in the extended Tealbook 
projection.  
 The U.S. Treasury’ s General Account (T GA) follows the staff forecast through 
September 2011.4  Then, the TGA slowly  drops back to its historical target level of $5 
billion by March 2012 as it is assumed that the Treasury will implement a new cash management system and invest funds in ex cess of $5 billion.  The TGA remains constant 
at $5 billion over the remainder of the forecast period. 
 Given the large degree of uncertainty over  the willingness of Congress to increase the 
debt ceiling by a significant am
ount, we maintain  the SFA balance at its current level of 
$5 billion until it is drained in November 2015 to maintain th e $25 billion reserve balance 
floor.  
 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in li ne with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
 In general, increases in the level of Federal Res erve assets generate higher levels of 
reserve balances.  Increases in the levels of  liability  items, such as Federal Reserve notes 
in circulation or the Treasury’s general account , or increases in the level of Reserve Bank 
capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability  or capital items would 
otherwise cause reserve balances to fall be low $25 billion, purchases of Treasury  
securities are assumed in order to mainta in that level of reserve balances.  
 In the event that a Federal Reserve Bank’s earnings fall short of the amount necessary to 
cover operating costs, pay  dividends, and equa te surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred 
asset will be recorded.  This deferred asset is  recorded in lieu of reducing the Reserve 
Bank’s capital and is found on the liability  side of the balance sheet as “Interest on 
Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”   This liability takes on a positive value 
when weekly  cumulative earnings have not yet been distributed to the Treasury, while 
this liability takes on a negative value when earnings fall short of the expenses listed 
above.  In the projections, Systemwide earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses and this line item  is set to zero.   
4 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of both 
the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Tr easury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are only $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is a good 
proxy for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                 
  
  
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 39 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
May 31, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,791 2,500 1,794 1,587 1,758 1,952 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 14 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 14 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 64 36 26 18 9 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 64 36 26 18 9 4 
Securities held outright 2,567 2,314 1,644 1,461 1,649 1,853 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,530 1,540 1,147 1,255 1,649 1,853 
Agency debt securities 119 77 39 16 0 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 918 697 458 190 0 0 
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 7 7 7 7 7 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 145 144 123 109 100 95 
Total liabilities 2,738 2,430 1,701 1,465 1,596 1,737 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 983 1,083 1,223 1,356 1,488 1,630 
Reverse repurchase agreements 60 60 60 60 60 60 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,670 1,267 400 31 31 31 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,552 1,256 389 25 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 113 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 5 5 5 0 0 0 
Other balances 1 1 1 1 1 1 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due to U.S. Treasury 3 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 53 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternatives A & B
 
Page 40 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
May 31, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,791 2,286 1,590 1,587 1,758 1,952 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 14 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 14 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 64 36 26 18 9 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 64 36 26 18 9 4 
Securities held outright 2,567 2,102 1,439 1,459 1,646 1,850 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,530 1,340 999 1,325 1,646 1,850 
Agency debt securities 119 77 39 16 0 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 918 686 402 118 0 0 
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 7 7 7 7 7 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 145 142 123 110 103 98 
Total liabilities 2,738 2,215 1,497 1,465 1,596 1,738 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 983 1,083 1,223 1,356 1,488 1,630 
Reverse repurchase agreements 60 60 60 60 60 60 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,670 1,053 196 31 31 31 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,552 1,042 185 25 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 113 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 5 5 5 0 0 0 
Other balances 1 1 1 1 1 1 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due to U.S. Treasury 3 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 53 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
 
Page 41 of 42
Authorized for Public Release
(This page is intentionally blank.) 
Explanatory Notes 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
June 16, 2011
Page 42 of 42
Authorized for Public Release