Prefatory Note 
The attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.  
Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
Content last modified 01/05 /2018. 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
July 26, 2012 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
  
Monetary Policy Strategies 
The top panel of the first exhibit, “P olicy Rules and the Staff Projection,” 
provides near-term prescriptions for the federal funds rate from five selected policy rules: 
the Taylor (1993) rule, the Taylor (1999) rule, the outco me-based rule, the first-
difference rule, and the nomi nal income targeting rule.1  These prescriptions take as given 
the staff’s baseline projections for real activit y and inflation in the second half of this 
year.  Medium-term prescriptions derived fr om dynamic simulations of each rule are 
discussed below.  Because the revisions to the staff outlook for inflation and the output 
gap are small, the near-term and medium-ter m prescriptions from these policy rules—as 
well as the prescriptions from optimal c ontrol policy that are discussed below—are 
similar to those reported in the June Tealbook. 
As shown in the left-hand columns, the near-term prescriptions from all but one of 
the rules keep the federal funds rate at the effective lower bound in both the third and 
fourth quarters of this year.  The exception is the Taylor (1993) rule, which embeds a 
relatively small response to the output gap; it prescribes a funds rate target of about 150 
basis points for the second half of the year .  The right-hand columns display the rule 
prescriptions that arise in the absence of the lower-bound constraint.  The outcome-based 
rule and the first-difference ru le prescribe fund rates that ar e somewhat below zero for the 
next two quarters, whereas the Taylor (1999) rule and the nominal income targeting rule 
prescribe rates well below zero.  The more accommodative prescriptions under these two rules reflect their st ronger contemporaneous response to the staff estimate of a sizable 
negative output gap.  The Tealbook baseline pr ojections for the output gap and inflation 
are shown in the bottom ha lf of the exhibit, titled “Key El ements of the Staff Projection.”  
Compared with the previous Tealbook, the st aff outlook for the output gap is slightly 
wider in 2012 and 2013, but little changed thereaf ter; the outlook for inflation is about the 
same as last time.  The slight widening in the near-term output gap projection has nudged 
down the near-term prescriptions from the unconstrained rules a bit.   
The first exhibit also reports the T ealbook-consistent estimate of short-run r*, 
which is generated by the FRB/US model wh en conditioned on the staff’s outlook for the 
economy.  The short-run  r* estimate corresponds to the real federal funds rate that, if 
maintained, would return output to its potentia l in twelve quarters.  With the staff’s 
                                                 
1 Details for each rule appear  in Explanatory Note A. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 1 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   Near-Term Prescriptions of Selected Policy Rules
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy
2012Q3 2012Q4 2012Q3 2012Q4
Taylor (1993) rule 1.50 1.55 1.50 1.55
     
     Previous Tealbook 1.52 1.59 1.52 1.59
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -0.88 -0.84
     
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.73 -0.64
Outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.02 -0.21
     
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 0.04 -0.08
First-difference rule 0.13 0.13 -0.15 -0.37
     
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.07 -0.24
Nominal income targeting rule 0.13 0.13 -0.49 -0.99
     
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.41 -0.86
Current Current Quarter Estimate Previous
Tealbook as of Previous Tealbook Tealbook
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US r* estimate  -2.79 -2.71 -2.93
     
Actual real federal funds rate -1.73 -1.79
   
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-10123
-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-10123 GDP Gap
Current Tealbook
Previous TealbookPolicy Rules and the Staff Projection
Memo: Equilibrium and Actual Real Federal Funds Rate
Key Elements of the Staff Projection
Percent Four-quarter percent change
Note: Estimates of    may change at the beginning of a quarter even when the staff outlook is unchanged because the twelve-quarter horizon covered by                              r*   
the calculation has rolled forward one quarter.  Therefore, whenever the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, the memo includes a third column
labeled "Current Quarter Estimate as of Previous Tealbook."2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0PCE Prices ex. Food and Energy
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 2 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
  medium-term projection for the output gap l ittle changed since the June Tealbook, the 
current-quarter estimate of r* remains near 2.75 percent, well be low the estimated 
actual real federal funds rate.  
The second exhibit, “Policy Rule Simula tions,” reports dynamic simulations using 
the FRB/US model that incorporate the endogenous responses of inflation and the output 
gap to the different paths of the federal funds  rate prescribed by th e constrained versions 
of the five policy rules described above.  The model is adjusted to match the staff’s 
baseline outlook for the economy and then simu lated using each of the respective policy 
rules.  Each rule is implemented from now onward, under the assumption that private 
agents fully understand and antic ipate the implications of each rule for future real 
activity, inflation, and interest rates.2  For comparison, the exhibit also displays the 
Tealbook baseline paths, which are conditioned on the prescriptions of the outcome-
based rule. 
The Tealbook baseline path and the simu lated outcomes under the other four rules 
are similar to those shown in June.  In the Tealbook baseline, the fede ral funds rate is at 
the effective lower bound until the fourth quart er of 2014, one quarter later than in the 
June Tealbook, and then increases gradually to just above 4 percent by the end of the 
decade.  The Taylor (1999) rule leads to a path for the federal funds rate that nearly 
replicates the baseline path.3  The Taylor (1999) rule and the outcome-based policy rule 
therefore produce very similar economic conditions, characterized by a slow convergence 
of the unemployment rate to the staff’s es timate of the effective natural rate of 
unemployment by 2020.4  In addition, inflation, after declining initially to below 1.5 
                                                 
2 The staff’s baseline forecast inco rporates the effects of the larg e-scale asset purchase programs 
that the FOMC undertook in past years, as well as the effects of the ongoing maturity extension program 
and the modifications to the Federal Reserve’s reinvestment policies that were announced last September.  
Via this procedure, the policy rule simulations incorporate the effects of these balance sheet policies; the rules themselves are not directly  adjusted for the effects of balance sheet policies.     
3 The outcome-based rule and the Taylor (1999) ru le have similar longer-run properties, especially 
with respect to the response to the level of the output  gap; however, their short-run responses are typically 
more distinct.  Currently, two offsetting forces lead to the similar funds rate prescriptions:  On the one hand, the outcome-based rule includes a term for the change in the output gap which, because of the projected pickup in output growth in 2014 and beyond, tends to prescribe faster increases in the funds rate relative to the Taylor (1999) rule.  On the other hand, the outcome-based rule includes lags of the federal funds rate whose presence tends to sl ow the pace of increase in the funds rate.  Currently, these two forces 
are almost precisely offsetting each other, leading,  on net, to similar funds rate prescriptions. 
4 The staff’s estimate of the effective natural rate of unemployment declines from 6.2 percent in 
the third quarter of 2012 to 5.25 percent by the end of 2017. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 3 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Policy Rule Simulations
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-101234567 
-101234567Percent
 Nominal Federal Funds Rate
Taylor (1993) rule
Taylor (1999) rule
Nominal income targeting rule
First-difference rule
Tealbook baseline
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-3-2-101234 
-3-2-101234Percent
 Real Federal Funds Rate
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 202045678910 
45678910Percent
 Unemployment Rate
Note: The policy rule simulations in this exhibit are based on rules that respond to core inflation. This choice
of rule specification was made in light of the tendency for current and near-term core inflation rates to outperform
headline inflation rates as predictors of the medium-term behavior of headline inflation.2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Percent
 PCE Inflation
Four-quarter average
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 4 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
percent—due in part to the transitory e ffects of energy price movements—gradually 
increases to the 2 percent goal.5 
Under the nominal income targeting rule, the initial tightening of the funds rate 
occurs at the beginning of 2015, and policy remains more accommodative than under the 
other rules for several years thereafter.  This  more accommodative policy is reflected in a 
more rapid decline in unemp loyment with inflation hoveri ng near 2 percent from mid-
2013 onward. 
As both the Taylor (1993) rule  and the first-difference rule lead to increases in the 
federal funds rate that occur earlier than those under the ot her rules, these two rules are 
associated with a higher path for the unemp loyment rate and lower inflation through the 
end of the decade.  As noted above, because the Taylor (1993) rule does not respond 
strongly to the level of the output gap, this  rule implies an immediate departure of the 
funds rate from its effective lower bound; th e prescribed 135 basis point increase in the 
funds rate causes real activity and inflation to slow relative to the baseline, prompting a 
partial reversal of the initial rate hike.  Wh ile the first-difference rule does not prescribe 
an increase in the funds rate  until the second quarter of 2014, it implies policy rates for 
the following years that run a bit higher th an under the other rules.  Reflecting the 
forward-looking price- and wage-setting be havior assumed in these simulations, the 
Taylor (1993) and the first-difference rule thus generate fairly similar outcomes for 
inflation, despite the differences in  their funds rate prescriptions. 
As shown in the third exhibit, “Constr ained vs. Unconstrained Optimal Control 
Policy,” the largely unchanged outlook for real ac tivity and inflation imply that funds rate 
prescriptions from optimal control simulations  of the FRB/US model are very similar to 
those reported in June.6  In these simulations, policymakers are assumed to place equal 
5 If the Taylor (1999) rule were modified to incorporate a response to the lagged federal funds rate, 
the prescribed funds rate would rise more slowly, implying a more accommodative policy stance than 
either the outcome-based policy rule or the Taylor ( 1999) rule without lagged adjustment.  The outcomes 
under this “inertial Taylor rule” are similar to the nominal income targeting rule except that the unemployment path is slightly higher and there is a bit more overshooting of inflation in the second half of 
the decade.  The “inertial Taylor rule” is discussed more extensively in the memo by Christopher Erceg, 
Jon Faust, Michael Kiley, Jean-Philippe Laforte, David López-Salido, Steve Meyer, Edward Nelson, David 
Reifschneider, and Robert Tetlow titled “An Overview of Simple Policy Rules and Their Use in 
Policymaking in Normal Times and Under Current Conditions,” sent to the Committee on July 18, 2012 . 
6 The optimal policy simulations incorporate the assumptions about underlying economic 
conditions used in the staff’s baseline forecast, including the assumptions about balance sheet policy 
described above. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 5 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Constrained vs. Unconstrained Optimal Control Policy
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-3-2-1012345678 
-3-2-1012345678Percent
 Nominal Federal Funds Rate
Current Tealbook: Constrained
Previous Tealbook: Constrained
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained
Tealbook baseline
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-5-4-3-2-101234 
-5-4-3-2-101234Percent
 Real Federal Funds Rate
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 202045678910 
45678910Percent
 Unemployment Rate
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Percent
 PCE Inflation
Four-quarter average
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 6 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
  weights on keeping headline PCE inflation close to the Committee’s 2 percent goal, on 
keeping the unemployment rate close to the staff’ s estimate of the effective natural rate of 
unemployment, and on minimizing changes in the federal funds rate.  The simulations 
indicate that, with the federal funds rate c onstrained to remain positive, the optimal path 
for the federal funds rate does not rise above the effective lower bound until the second 
quarter of 2016, unchanged from the path reported in the June Tealbook.7 
The constrained optimal control policy keep s the funds rate lower for longer than 
any of the other policy rules discussed above, and this policy would pr omote a faster pace 
of economic recovery than in the staff’s baseline outlook, in addition to keeping inflation 
close to the Committee’s goal of  2 percent.  In this si mulation, the gap between the 
unemployment rate and the sta ff’s estimate of the effective natural rate of unemployment 
is closed by mid-2016, and the unemployment rate  subsequently runs slightly below its 
natural rate for a few years.  Inflation initia lly exhibits a marginally smaller decline than 
in the Tealbook baseline before increasi ng to the 2 percent ob jective by mid-2013 and 
then overshooting slightly, peaking at 2.3 pe rcent in 2018 and gradually returning to the 
2 percent objective thereafter.  The more rapid convergence to the Committee’s assumed 
objectives (and the subsequent temporary ove rshooting) occur b ecause policymakers 
respond to the lower bound constraint by promising to keep interest rates low for an extended period of time.  As this policy is a ssumed to be completely credible, it boosts 
inflation expectations and reduces real in terest rates during th e first years of the 
simulation. 
If the nominal federal funds rate could fall below zero, the funds rate, under the 
optimal unconstrained policy, would decrease to 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 
2013 and return to positive territory by the end of 2015.  Under these conditions, the 
unemployment rate would decline more rapidl y than under the optimal constrained policy 
and close the gap with the estimated natural rate of unemployment by early 2015.  
Inflation would rise back to 2 percent by mid-2013, a pattern much like that in the 
constrained simulation.  In subsequent year s, inflation would slightly overshoot the 
2 percent objective—but less persistently than in the constrained case—moving up to 
                                                 
7 Although the loss function uses headline inflation in stead of core inflation,  the real federal funds 
rate shown in the upper right panel of the exhibit is  calculated as the differen ce between the nominal funds 
rate and a four-quarter moving average of core PCE inflation.  Core PCE inflation is used to compute the 
real rate for this illustrative purpos e because it provides a less volatile measure of inflation expectations 
than does a four-quarter moving  average of headline inflation. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 7 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
  2.25 percent by mid-decade before returning to the 2 percent mark by the beginning of 
2020. 
The optimal control simulations discussed above assume that policymakers can 
credibly commit to future policy actions, which constrains the choices of future 
policymakers.  If instead, policymakers lack th e ability to commit (that is, they must set 
policy under discretion), their abi lity to manage private sector expectations of inflation 
and other variables would be greatly limited because they cannot bind future 
policymakers to carry out their plan.  Under such circumstances, monetary policy would 
be less stimulative than under commitment, and the federal funds rate would depart from 
the effective lower bound in the third quarter  of 2015 (not shown), three quarters earlier 
than in the commitment case depicted in the exhibit.  Accordingly, the unemployment rate would decline more slowly, and inflation would rise mo re gradually back to the 2 
percent goal.    
The fourth exhibit, “Outcomes under Alternative Policies,” tabulates the 
simulation results for key variables under the selected policy rules described above. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 8 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Outcomes under Alternative Policies
(Percent change, annual rate, from end of preceding period except as noted)
Measure and scenario
    H12012
H22013 2014 2015 2016
Real GDP
Extended Tealbook baseline 1.4 1.6 2.1 3.2 3.6 3.5
Taylor (1993) 1.4 1.3 1.5 2.9 3.7 3.7
Taylor (1999) 1.4 1.6 2.1 3.2 3.6 3.4
First-difference 1.4 1.5 1.7 2.9 3.5 3.5
Nominal income targeting 1.4 1.9 2.7 3.7 3.9 3.5
Constrained optimal control 1.4 2.0 3.0 4.0 4.2 3.6
Unemployment rate1
Extended Tealbook baseline 8.2 8.3 8.1 7.8 7.2 6.5
Taylor (1993) 8.2 8.3 8.4 8.3 7.7 6.9
Taylor (1999) 8.2 8.3 8.1 7.8 7.2 6.5
First-difference 8.2 8.3 8.3 8.2 7.6 7.0
Nominal income targeting 8.2 8.3 7.9 7.3 6.5 5.8
Constrained optimal control 8.2 8.3 7.7 7.0 6.1 5.3
Total PCE prices
Extended Tealbook baseline 1.6 1.1 1.5 1.4 1.6 1.7
Taylor (1993) 1.6 1.0 1.3 1.2 1.3 1.5
Taylor (1999) 1.6 1.2 1.5 1.4 1.6 1.7
First-difference 1.6 0.9 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.3
Nominal income targeting 1.6 1.5 1.9 1.8 2.0 2.1
Constrained optimal control 1.6 1.6 2.1 2.0 2.1 2.2
Core PCE prices
Extended Tealbook baseline 2.1 1.5 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.7
Taylor (1993) 2.1 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.5
Taylor (1999) 2.1 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.8
First-difference 2.1 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4
Nominal income targeting 2.1 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.2
Constrained optimal control 2.1 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.3
Federal funds rate1
Extended Tealbook baseline 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 1.5 2.6
Taylor (1993) 0.2 1.4 0.8 1.2 1.9 2.7
Taylor (1999) 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 1.5 2.6
First-difference 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.8 1.8 2.9
Nominal income targeting 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.8 2.0
Constrained optimal control 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.9
1. Percent, average for the final quarter of the period.
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 9 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 10 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  As always, the Co mmittee could blend elements of the draft 
statements to construct its desired statement. 
The alternatives differ in their character ization of the incoming data.  The draft 
statements for Alternatives A and B begin by noting that “economi c activity decelerated 
somewhat over the first half of  this year.”  In contrast, Alternative C offers the more 
upbeat depiction that “the economy has b een expanding moderately this year.”  
Alternatives A and B observe that employment  growth has been sl ow in recent months 
and note that the unemployment rate remains elevated.  Alternative C does not describe 
unemployment as elevated; instead, it poi nts to further gains in employment.  
Alternatives A and B note, as in the previous  statement, that business fixed investment 
has “continued to advance” but that house hold spending “appears to be rising at a 
somewhat slower pace than earlie r in the year.”  Alternative C simply states that private 
domestic demand has continued to advance.  Alternatives A and B remark, as in the 
previous statement, that the housing sector remains depressed, while  Alternative C drops 
this reference.  With respect to prices, Alte rnatives B and C mention the recent decline in 
inflation and attribute it mainly to lower pric es of crude oil and ga soline.  Alternative A 
says that inflation has been “subdued” in recent months.  Each statement notes that 
longer-term inflation expecta tions have remained stable. 
All three alternatives contain the same  characterization of the medium-term 
outlook for real activity as the June statem ent, indicating that the Committee expects 
economic growth to be “moderate over co ming quarters and then to pick up very 
gradually.”  The draft statements continue to  highlight the downside risks to the outlook 
from strains in global financial markets; they also offer the option of pointing to 
downside risks stemming from issues relating to U.S. fiscal policy.  Some participants 
may see the fiscal risks as likely to increase as  the “fiscal cliff” at the end of the year 
approaches, and so want to note them dire ctly in the statement for this meeting.  
However, others may want to avoid involving the Committee in fiscal debates at this time 
and also may be concerned that the fiscal issues will not be clearly resolved for some 
time, making the reference in the statement diffi cult to remove at a future meeting.  With 
respect to the outlook for infl ation, Alternatives A and B re tain the language indicating 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 11 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
that the Committee expects that inflation over the medium term will “run at or below the 
rate that it judges most consistent with its  dual mandate,” while Alternative C includes a 
projection that inflation over the medium term will run at “about” the mandate-consistent 
level. 
The alternatives provide different opti ons regarding balance sheet policies.  
Alternative A offers the Committee a choice be tween two new large-scale asset purchase 
programs.  The first reflects an incremen tal, open-ended approach, calling for the 
purchase of $45 billion of longer-term Treasur y securities per mont h and $30 billion of 
agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) per month and continuing at least until the Committee observes sustained improvement in  labor market conditions, provided that 
projected medium-term inflation is close to target and longer- term inflation expectations 
remain stable.  The second is discrete in na ture, with purchases of  $600 billion of longer-
term Treasury securities and $400 billion of agency MBS by the end of the third quarter 
of 2013 at a combined pace of about $75 billion per month.
1  Under either version of 
Alternative A, the Committee would end th e maturity extension program (MEP) and 
reinstate the policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities  at auction.  In contrast, 
Alternative B and Alternative C would simply continue the MEP through year-end, as announced in June, and maintain the Comm ittee’s existing policies of reinvesting 
principal payments on agency debt and ag ency MBS and redeeming maturing Treasury 
securities.   
Under all three alternatives, the Committ ee would maintain the 0 to ¼ percent 
target range for the federal funds rate.  The B version of the statemen t offers the option of 
extending the anticipated period of exceptionally low federa l funds rates to mid-2015.  
Alternative A extends the expect ed date of policy liftoff to at least mid-2015; it also alters 
the forward guidance by replacing the specifi c reference to “low rates of resource 
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation” —which some may find too negative in 
tone—with more positive langua ge:  “To support sustained improvement in labor market 
conditions and to help ensure that inflation is close to its mandate-consistent level over the medium run, the Committee expects to ma intain a highly accommodative stance for 
                                                 
1 See the memo “Market Functioning and Limits on Asset Purchases” by staff in the Division of 
Monetary Affairs at the Board of Governors and in the Markets Group at the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York for an assessment of the amount of additional Treasury securities and agency MBS that the Federal 
Reserve could purchase over the next two years without causing a meaningful deterioration in market 
functioning.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 12 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
monetary policy as the economic recovery strengthens.”  Unde r Alternative C the 
Committee could alter the forward guidance eith er by making the anticipated date of the 
first increase in the funds rate a year ear lier, or by replacing the current forward 
guidance—including the date—with new langua ge that describes the factors the 
Committee will consider in deciding when to raise its target for the funds rate. 
Finally, Alternative A notes the possibility  of a reduction in th e remuneration rate 
on excess reserves from 25 basis points to 15 basis points in order to provide a modest 
amount of additional policy stimulus. 
The following table highlights key elemen ts of the differences in the policy 
actions associated with the alternative statements.  The table is followed by complete 
draft statements and then by a summary of the arguments for each alternative.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 13 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Table 1:  Overview of Policy Alternatives for the August 1 FOMC Statement 
Selected 
Elements June 
Statement August Alternatives 
A B C
Balance Sheet  
MEP continue to purchase at 
current pace Treasury 
securities with remaining 
maturities of 6 to 30 years 
and sell or redeem equal 
amount with remaining 
maturities of approx. 3 
years or less through the 
end of 2012 end the program continue the program through the end of the year as announced in June  
Additional Purchases none $45 billion of Treasury securities per month and $30 
billion of agency MBS per 
month, until Committee 
observes sustained 
improvement in labor market 
conditions, as long as 
projected medium-term 
inflation is close to its 
mandate-consistent level and 
longer-term inflation 
expectations remain stable 
OR 
$600 billion of longer-term 
Treasury securities and $400 
billion of agency MBS by 
end of third quarter of 2013 none none
Reinvestment Policies principal payments of 
agency debt and MBS into 
agency MBS; suspend 
Treasury rollovers reinstitute the policy of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities at auctionunchanged unchanged
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 14 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
Table 1:  Overview of Policy Alternatives for the August 1 FOMC Statement 
(continued ) 
Selected 
Elements June 
Statement August Alternatives 
A B C 
Forward  Rate Guidance 
Guidance   at least through  
late 2014 at least through  
mid-2015 
 unchanged  
 
OR 
 
at least through  
mid-2015 
 at least through late 2013 
 
OR 
 
unchanged 
 
OR 
 
consider range of factors, 
including actual and 
projected labor market 
conditions, medium-term 
outlook for inflation, & 
risks to achievement  
of Committee objectives 
Rationale economic conditions—
including low rates of 
resource util ization and a 
subdued outlook for 
inflation over the medium 
run—are likely to warrant to support sustained 
improvement in labor market 
conditions and to help ensure 
that inflation is close to its 
mandate-consistent level over 
the medium run, … as the 
economic recovery 
strengthens unchanged unchanged 
 
OR 
 
unchanged 
 
OR 
 
none 
Future Policy Action  
Future Actions  none regularly review the pace and 
composition of its securities 
purchases in light of the 
economic outlook and its 
ongoing assessments of the 
efficacy and costs of the 
program 
 
OR 
 
regularly review the size and 
composition of its balance 
sheet in light of the outlook 
for inflation and labor market 
conditions closely monitor 
incoming information 
on economic and 
financial developments  regularly review size and composition of securities 
holdings;  
prepared to take further action as appropriate prepared to make adjustments as appropriate will provide additional 
accommodation as 
needed prepared to adjust holdings as necessary 
to promote a stronger 
economic recovery & 
sustained improvement in 
labor market conditions in 
a context of price stability unchanged unchanged to promote maximum employment and price 
stability 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 15 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
JUNE FOMC  STATEMENT  
1.Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April suggests
that the economy has been expanding modera tely this year.  However, growth in
employment has slowed in recent mont hs, and the unemployment rate remains
elevated.  Business fixed investment has co ntinued to advance.  Household spending
appears to be rising at a somewhat slower pace than earlier in the year.  Despite some
signs of improvement, the housing sector remains depressed.  Inflation has declined,
mainly reflecting lower prices of crude o il and gasoline, and longer-term inflation
expectations have remained stable.
2.Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability.  The Comm ittee expects economic growth to remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up very graduall y.  Consequently, the
Committee anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only slowly towardlevels that it judges to be consistent with  its dual mandate.  Furthermore, strains in
global financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic
outlook.  The Committee anticipates that infl ation over the medium term will run at
or below the rate that it judges most  consistent with its dual mandate.
3.To support a stronger economic recovery and to  help ensure that inflation, over time,
is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee expects to
maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy.  In particular, theCommittee decided today to keep  the target range for the fe deral funds rate at 0 to ¼
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—arelikely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds ra te at least through
late 2014.
4.The Committee also decided to continue through the end of the year its program to
extend the average maturity of its holdings of securities.  Spec ifically, the Committee
intends to purchase Treasury securities w ith remaining maturities of 6 years to 30
years at the current pace and to sell or re deem an equal amount of Treasury securities
with remaining maturities of approximately 3 years or less.  This continuation of the
maturity extension program should put downward pressure on longer-term interestrates and help to make broader financia l conditions more accommodative.  The
Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from
its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency
mortgage-backed securities.  The Committee is prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a st ronger economic recovery and sustained improvement in
labor market conditions in a context of pr ice stability.
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 16 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
AUGUST FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April  June  
suggests that the economy has  been expanding moderately  economic activity  
decelerated somewhat over the first half of  this year.  However,  Growth in 
employment has slowed  been slow  in recent months, and the unemployment rate 
remains elevated.  Business fixed investment  has continued to advance.  Household 
spending appears to be rising at a somewhat slower pace than earlier in the year.  
Despite some signs of improvement, the hous ing sector remains depressed.  Inflation 
has declined  been subdued in recent months , mainly reflecting lower prices of 
crude oil and gasoline, and l onger-term inflation expectati ons have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Co mmittee expects economic growth to remain  
be moderate over coming quarters and then to  pick up very gradually.  Consequently, 
the Committee anticipates that the unempl oyment rate will decline only slowly 
toward levels that it judges to be consis tent with its dual mandate.  Furthermore, 
strains in global financial markets  [ continue to  | and issues relating to U.S. fiscal 
policy  ] pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook.  The Committee 
anticipates that inflation over the medium te rm will run at or below the rate that it 
judges most consistent with its dual mandate. 
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to  help ensure that inflation, over time, 
is at the rate most consistent w ith its dual mandate, the Committee also  decided to 
continue through the end of the year  its program to extend the average maturity of  its 
holdings of securities  begin a new large-scale asset purchase program .  
Specifically, the Committee now intends to purchase Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years at the current pace and to sell or redeem 
an equal amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approx imately 3 
years or less  increase its holdings of longer-term  Treasury securities at a pace of  
about  [ $45  ] billion per month and of agenc y mortgage-backed securities at a 
pace of about  [ $30  ] billion per month .  The Committee anticipates continuing to 
add to its holdings at least until it ob serves sustained improvement in labor 
market conditions, as long as projected medium-term inflation is close to its 
mandate-consistent level and longer-term inflation expectations remain stable.   
This continuation of  the maturity extension program   The increase in the 
Committee’s securities holdings  should put downward pressure on longer-term 
interest rates , support mortgage markets,  and help to make broader financial 
conditions more accommodative.  This new purchase program replaces the 
previously announced maturity extensio n program; therefore, the Committee is 
ending its sales of shorter-term Treasury securities and reinstituting its policy of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.   The Committee is 
maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities.  The Committee will regularly review the pace and composition of its 
securities purchases in light of the economic outlook and its ongoing assessments 
of the efficacy and costs of the program, and  is prepared to take further action  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 17 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
make adjustments  as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery and 
sustained improvement in labor market c onditions in a context of price stability. 
OR 
3'. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, 
is at the rate most consistent w ith its dual mandate, the Committee also  decided to 
continue through the end of the year  its program to extend the average maturity of  its 
holdings of securities  begin a new large-scale asset purchase program .  
Specifically, the Committee now intends to purchase Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 6 yea rs to 30 years at the current pace and to sell or redeem 
an equal amount of Treasury securities with  remaining maturities of approximately 3 
years or less  [ $600 billion  ] of longer-term Treasury securities and  [ $400 billion  ] 
of agency mortgage-backed securities by the end of the third quarter of 2013, a 
combined pace of about  [ $75  ] billion a month .  This continuation of the maturity 
extension program   This action  should put downward pressure on longer-term 
interest rates , support mortgage markets,  and help to make broader financial 
conditions more accommodative.  This new purchase program replaces the 
previously announced maturity extensio n program; therefore, the Committee is 
ending its sales of shorter-term Treasury securities and reinstituting its policy of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.   The Committee is 
maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of 
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its 
balance sheet in light of the outlook fo r inflation and labo r market conditions 
and is prepared to take further action  make adjustments  as appropriate to promote a 
stronger economic recovery and sustained im provement in labor market conditions in 
a context of price stability.   
4. The Committee also decided today to keep the target  range for the federal funds rate 
at 0 to ¼ percent and .  To support sustained impr ovement in labor market 
conditions and to help ensure that inflat ion is close to its mandate-consistent 
level over the medium run,  the Committee expects to maintain a highly 
accommodative stance for monetary policy as the economic recovery strengthens .  
In particular, the Committee  currently anticipates that economic conditions —
including  low rates of resource ut ilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over 
the medium run —are likely to warrant  exceptionally low levels for the federal funds 
rate are likely to be warranted  at least through late 2014  mid-2015 . 
  
Note:  If policymakers decide that it is appropriate to re duce the remuneration rate on 
reserve balances, the Board of Governors wo uld issue an accompan ying statement that 
might read:  
 
In a related action, the Board of Governors vo ted today to reduce the interest rate paid 
on required and excess reserve balances from 25 basis points to 15 basis points 
effective with the reserve maintenan ce period that begins on August 9, 2012.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 18 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
AUGUST FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April  June
suggests that the economy has  been expanding moderately  economic activity
decelera
ted somewhat over the first half of  this year.  However,  Growth in
em
ployment has slowed  been slow  in recent months, and the unemployment rate
remains elevated.  Business fixed investment  has continued to advance.  Household
spending appears to be rising at a somewhat slower pace than earlier in the year.
Despite some further  signs of improvement, the housing sector remains depressed.
Inflation has declined since earlier this year , mainly reflecting lower prices of crude
oil and gasoline, and longer-term inflati on expectations have remained stable.
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability.  The Co mmittee expects economic growth to remain
be moderate over coming quarters and then to  pick up very gradually.  Consequently,
the Committee anticipates that the unempl oyment rate will decline only slowly
toward levels that it judges to be consis tent with its dual mandate.  Furthermore,
strains in global financial markets [ continue to  | and issues relating to U.S. fiscal
policy  ] pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook.  The Committee
anticipates that inflation over the medium te rm will run at or below the rate that it
judges most consistent with its dual mandate.
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to  help ensure that inflation, over time,
is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee expects to
maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy.  In particular, theCommittee decided today to keep  the target range for the fe deral funds rate at 0 to ¼
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—arelikely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds ra te at least through
[ late 2014 | mid-2015
 ].
4. The Committee also decided to continue through the end of the year its program to
extend the average maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in June,
Specifically,
 the Committee intends to purch ase Treasury securities with remaining
maturities of 6 years to 30 years at the current pace and to sell or redeem an equal
amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of  approximately 3 years or
less.  This continuation of the maturity ex tension program should put downward
pressure on longer -term interest rates and help to make broader financial conditions
more accommodative.   The Committee  and it  is maintaining its existing policy of
reinvesting principal payments from its  holdings of agency debt and agency
mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities.  The Committee is
prepared to take further action as appropriate  will closely monitor incoming
information on economic and financial developments and will provide additional
accommodation as needed  to promote a stronger econom ic recovery and sustained
improvement in labor market conditio ns in a context of price stability.
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 19 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
AUGUST FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April  June  
suggests that the economy has been expa nding moderately this year.  However , 
growth in employment has slowed in recent months, and the unemployment rate 
remains elevated .  Employment has shown further gains.   Business fixed 
investment  Private domestic demand  has continued to advance, Household spending 
appears to be rising at a somewhat slower pace than ear lier in the year.   Despite  and 
the housing sector remains depressed  has shown  some signs of improvement.  
Inflation has declined since earlier this year , mainly reflecting lower prices of crude 
oil and gasoline, and longer-term inflati on expectations have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Comm ittee expects economic growth to remain 
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up very graduall y.  Consequently, the 
Committee anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only slowly toward 
levels that it judges to be consistent with  its dual mandate.  Furthermore, strains in 
global financial markets [ continue to  | and issues relating to U.S. fiscal policy  ] 
pose significant downside risks to the ec onomic outlook.  The Committee anticipates 
that inflation over the medium term will run at or below  about  the rate that it judges 
most consistent with its dual mandate. 
3. To support a  stronger  the economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at the rate most consistent wi th its dual mandate, the Committee expects to 
maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy.  In particular, the Committee decided today to keep  the target range for the fe deral funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds ra te at least through 
late [ 2013
 | 2014 ] . 
OR 
3'. To support a stronger  sustainable  economic recovery and to help ensure that 
inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy.  
In particular, the Committee decided today to keep the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and 
currently anticip ates that economic conditions —
including  low rates of resource ut ilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over 
the medium run —are likely to warrant exceptionally low leve ls for the federal funds 
rate at least through late 2014 .  As rates of resource utilization rise toward levels 
consistent with maximum employment, the Committee eventually will need to 
make monetary policy less accommodative  in order to ensure that the economy 
expands at a sustainable pace and to prevent inflation from persistently 
exceeding its longer-run objective.  In determining the appropriate time to 
increase its target for the federal funds  rate, the Committee will consider a range 
of factors, including actual and project ed labor market conditions, the medium-
term outlook for inflation, and the risk s to the achievemen t of the Committee’s 
objectives.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 20 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
4. The Committee also decided to continue through the end of the year its program to 
extend the average maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in June  
Specifically, the Committee intends to purch ase Treasury securities with remaining 
maturities of 6 years to 30 years at the current pace and to sell or redeem an equal 
amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of  approximately 3 years or 
less.  This continuation of the maturity ex tension program should put downward 
pressure on longer -term interest rates and help to make broader financial conditions 
more accommodative.   The Committee  is maintaining  and to maintain  its existing 
policy of reinvesting principal payments from  its holdings of agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities.  The Committee 
will regularly review the size and compos ition of its securities holdings and  is 
prepared to take further ac tion as appropriate  adjust those holdings as necessary  to 
promote maximum employment and  a stronger economic recovery and sustained 
improvement in labor market conditions in a context of  price stability.   
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 21 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
The Committee might interpret the ava ilable information as indicating that, 
despite some weakness in recent economic da ta, neither the modal economic outlook nor 
the risks to the outlook have worsened materially  since it last met, and conclude that it is 
appropriate to make no significant change in  the stance of moneta ry policy at this 
meeting.  However, members may feel th at further policy accommodation would be 
called for if the current situa tion, including little if any pr ogress in reducing elevated 
levels of unemployment and underlying inflation that is running belo w levels consistent 
with its dual mandate, were to persist much longer.  If so, members may wish to adopt a 
statement that announces no new policy action an d contains language similar to that of 
the June statement, but suggests that additional policy accommodation may become 
necessary fairly soon, as  in Alternative B. 
More specifically, FOMC participants, lik e the staff, may see the recent data as 
suggesting that the pace of economic recovery has slowed somewhat in recent months.  
Nevertheless, policymakers may continue to view  this deceleration as reflecting, in part,  
temporary factors and therefore anticipate that growth will strengthen going forward, 
albeit very gradually, without additional policy action.  Indeed, the Committee’s assessment of the prospects for economic grow th and inflation beyond the near term may 
not have changed materially over the interm eeting period, and thus members may not see 
the threshold for further policy action at th is meeting as having been met.  The 
Committee may, however, still see a sizable risk that the deceleration in economic 
activity could prove more pronounced or more protracted than currently expected.  Participants may also see si gnificant downside risks from strains in global financial 
markets as well as from issues relating to U.S. fiscal policy.  Give n these concerns, the 
Committee might think it appropriate to signal that it will provide additional monetary accommodation if economic conditions do not begin to improve soon.  Consistent with 
this assessment, Alternative B ends by stating that the Committee “will provide 
additional accommodation as needed to pr omote a stronger economic recovery and 
sustained improvement in labor market conditions  in a context of price stability.”  Such 
concerns might also lead policymakers to ex tend the forward guidance in the statement to 
“at least through mid-2015.”  However, other pa rticipants may see a benefit to making a 
change in the expected liftoff date in c onjunction with the introduc tion of a new purchase 
program, if such a program becomes appropriate, since the additional asset purchases 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 22 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
would limit the possibility that the change in the liftoff date could undermine business 
and consumer confidence by emphasizing the deterioration in the economic outlook.    
Some members may note that the outl ook has not improved despite the action 
they took in June, as the effects of the c ontinuation of the MEP have been offset by a 
weakening in the likely underlying trajectory  for economic activity; or they may think 
that downside risks to the outlook have increase d.  In either case, they may be inclined 
toward further balance sheet actions to fo ster more rapid progress toward the dual 
mandate.  Nevertheless, they may want to wait for additional information about the 
trajectory of output and inflati on to gauge the extent to whic h growth is likely to pick up 
in response to policy actions already in place before undertaking a new policy action, 
especially given the higher-than-normal un certainty about the economic outlook and the 
efficacy of those policy actions, as well as th e potential costs and risks associated with 
various policy easing measures.  Indeed, some  participants may have a high threshold for 
additional action, either because they expect that additional asset purchases would likely 
have only a very modest effect on the econom ic outlook or because they are concerned 
that additional asset purchases could have  adverse effects on inflation or negative 
implications for financial stability.  In light of such concerns, the Committee may want 
additional time to evaluate potential policy alternatives be fore taking a further easing 
step.   
In contrast, some participants may judge that the economic recovery remains on a 
sustainable path despite some temporary da mpening factors and that moving toward a 
somewhat less accommodative stance of polic y earlier than indicated by the Committee’s 
June statement will likely be appropriate to limit the risks of an undesirable increase in 
inflation over the medium run.  However,  they may judge that, with unemployment 
having leveled off and inflation having slowed from its ear lier rapid pace, there is less 
urgency in seeking an immediate reduction in policy accommodation.  Given that the 
uncertainty regarding the economic outlook is currently quite high, th ese participants may 
also prefer to wait for further information to confirm the strength of the expansion before 
making a change in the forward guidance that might have to be reversed later.    
A policy decision along the lines of Altern ative B would be largely in line with 
the expectations of market pa rticipants.  According to the Desk’s latest survey, primary 
dealers do not see major changes in the statem ent language as the most likely outcome at 
this meeting, though they anticipate some  recognition of the disappointing economic 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 23 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
data.  The dealers anticipate that the first in crease in the target fe deral funds rate will 
most likely occur in early 2015, broadly consis tent with the existing forward guidance.  
Moreover, dealers place relatively low odds on the Committee engaging in further 
balance-sheet action at this meeting, a lthough they reportedly put material odds on 
additional easing through the size of the SOMA  portfolio within one year.  Even though 
its language points to “additional accomm odation” without specifically mentioning 
LSAPs, the statement of Alternative B would lik ely lead investors to price in higher odds 
that additional LSAPs will be implemented by the Committee, perhaps as soon as at the 
September meeting.  As a consequence, l onger-term interest rates would likely fall 
somewhat, stock prices would rise, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar would 
decline.  Investors appear to see less than even odds of an exte nsion of the expected 
liftoff date in the forward guidance; as a resu lt, if the Committee decided to adopt that 
option, the effects in asset markets w ould likely be somewhat larger.   
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
FOMC participants may view the informati on received since their last meeting as 
pointing to a somewhat weaker modal economic outlook or an increase in downside risks 
to the outlook, or both.  Accordingly, they may feel that additional monetary policy 
easing is called for at this meeting.  More specifically, some part icipants may interpret 
recent weak economic data as evidence that  slow growth of consumer and business 
spending is quite likely to persist and so c onclude that the under lying trajectory for 
economic growth is inadequate to return th e unemployment rate to its mandate-consistent 
level within the next few years.  They may also be concerned that the continuing overhang of foreclosed and vacant properties will restrain recovery in this sector for some 
time to come.  Moreover, with the inflationary  effects of the earlier  run-up in oil and 
gasoline prices having subsided, and with inflation expectations well anchored, participants may judge that the upside risks to inflation are small.  Indeed, they may 
forecast, like the staff, that the inflation ra te will remain, for a few years, somewhat 
below the Committee’s long-run objective of 2 percent.   
These policymakers might point out th at the unconstrained optimal control 
simulations and four of five of the uncons trained near-term policy rule prescriptions 
presented in the “Monetary Policy Strategies” section of the Tealbook continue to call for 
negative federal funds rates, even with the c ontinuation of the MEP in cluded in the staff’s 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 24 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
baseline scenario.  As a result, the Committee might anticipate that near-zero federal 
funds rates are likely to be  warranted for somewhat longe r than had been thought and 
change the forward guidance in the statemen t accordingly.  However, participants may 
worry that providing forward guidance for the path of policy appreciably further ahead 
may not be viewed as credible by markets and may thus have only a limited impact on 
longer-term interest rates.  Thus, they may judge that a new LSAP program is appropriate 
instead of, or in addition to, an extension of the anticipated period of near-zero funds 
rates, reflecting an assessment that an LS AP would not require credibility regarding 
future Committee policy and would likely have  larger macroeconomic effects.  These 
considerations may lead them to favor Alternative A.   
In addition to judging that the baseline outlook for the economy is unsatisfactory, 
policymakers may also judge that downside risks to that outlook, particularly from the European crisis and issues relating to U.S. fiscal policy, have increased considerably of 
late, and so prefer the policy easing contained in Alternativ e A.  Specifically, they may 
see non-trivial odds that the European crisis  could ultimately impose a very substantial 
drag on the U.S. recovery.  In addition, some policymakers may also see a sizable 
probability that the Congress will be unable to resolve contentious fiscal issues before the 
turn of the year, and that fis cal policy could consequently tig hten sharply at that time.  
Moreover, continued uncertainty about U.S. fi scal policy and the European crisis could 
restrain household spending and business invest ment more significantly  later this year.  
In addition, with a substantia l fraction of unemployed workers having been jobless for 
long periods, some FOMC participants might want to guard against the risk that this high 
level of long-term unemployment will persis t long enough to permanently depress labor 
supply and potential output.  
Furthermore, some participants may view the unusually  large amount of 
uncertainty about the outlook as a reason not to  wait but instead to act aggressively—both 
to reduce the likelihood that severely adverse scenarios will emerge and to provide 
greater assurance to the public  that policymakers are willing to act as needed to support 
the recovery.  This perspectiv e could be reinforced if polic ymakers also saw the risks to 
the economic outlook as asymmetric and wei ghted substantially to the downside.   
Should the Committee decide to provide further monetary stimulus through 
balance sheet expansion, it might increase the SOMA’s holdings of both longer-term 
Treasury securities and agency MBS with the aim of putting downward pressure on 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 25 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
longer-term interest rates in ge neral while also directly suppo rting mortgage markets.  In 
particular, Alternative A provides the Committ ee with an option to expand the balance 
sheet either through an incremental, open-ended purchase program or through a large, 
discrete purchase program as in previous LSAP operations.  The Committee could choose 
to implement an incremental, open-ended purchase program by specifying initial monthly rates of purchases—for example $45 billion pe r month of longer-term Treasury securities 
and $30 billion per month of agency MBS—and by stating that it anticipates continuing 
to expand the SOMA portfolio “at least until it observes sustained improvement in the 
labor market,” as long as “projected medi um-term inflation is close to its mandate-
consistent level and longer-term inflation expectations remain stable.”  Alternatively, the Committee could choose to announce a fixed program to purchase an additional $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities and $400 billion of agency MBS by the end of 
the third quarter of 2013,  as in paragraph 3 ′ of Alternative A.  In either case, the new 
purchase program would replace the existing MEP. 
The Committee might prefer to implement a large, discrete purchase program if it 
believes that investor uncertainty about the ultimate size of an open-ended program 
would make it less effective than a discrete program.  In contrast, members might opt for 
an open-ended purchase program if they judged that such a program would boost business and consumer confidence by empha sizing that the Committee is ready to 
provide the accommodation needed to support a stronger recovery.  Moreover, an open-
ended program, if well understood by the public, w ould lead market participants to revise 
their expectations about the total size of the purchase pr ogram in response to incoming 
economic data, and so could help to buffer the economy in the face of unanticipated 
shocks.  Policymakers might also prefer an open-ended program if th ey anticipated that 
greater flexibility would make it easier to ca librate the ultimate am ount of purchases to 
evolving economic conditions.  However, if the Committee announced an open-ended 
purchase program, it might want to be clear in  the statement that such purchases might 
not be continued indefinitely even if th e economy remained weak.  For example, the 
Committee might choose to end the program if  incoming information suggested that the 
economic effects of the purchases were smaller than anticipated and that the associated 
costs and risks were more substantial.   
Policymakers also may see some additional benefit from reducing the interest rate 
paid on required and excess reserve balances to  15 basis points; in that case, the Board 
could adopt such a reduction, a nd that step could be noted in  the press release containing 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 26 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
the FOMC statement.  Such a reduction in th e rate paid on reserve balances would put 
modest downward pressure on a range of mone y market rates, and so lower medium-term 
and perhaps longer-term rates, at least to some degree.  It also could mitigate concern 
about the Federal Reserve appearing to subsid ize banks by remunerating reserves at a rate 
noticeably above that on other short-term investments.  However, participants might be 
concerned that a further reduction in money market rates could disrupt money markets 
and so have adverse effects on the economy.  The ECB’s recent decision to cut its deposit 
rate to zero does not appear, thus far, to have caused seve re disruptions in European 
money markets, as discussed in the box “The Effects of the European Central Bank’s 
Deposit Rate Cut” in Tealbook A; howeve r, the short period of time since the 
announcement of the decision and differences in  the structures of U.S. and European 
money markets suggest that it may be pr emature to draw conclusions about the 
implications of a cut in remuneration rate on reserve balances in the United States.  
Cutting the rate paid on reserve balances also would reduce depository institutions’ 
incentive to borrow and hold excess reserves to earn the rate paid on such reserves, likely 
resulting in a further reduction in trading volume in the federal funds market and potentially in greater volatility  in the effective federal funds  rate.  Moreover, banks might 
impose greater fees on deposit accounts, a deve lopment that could lead to a negative 
response by the public.  These ri sks would be reduced by keepi ng the rate paid on reserve 
balances at 15 basis points rather than reducing it to zero.
2   
 In the Desk’s survey, dealers plac ed only about 25 percent odds on the 
Committee expanding the SOMA portfolio through additional securities purchases at this 
meeting and about 65 percent odds on such an expansion sometime within the next year.  
With regard to the forward guidance, only about 40 percent of dealers anticipated a 
change at this meeting.  Thus, a statement al ong the lines of Alternative A would come as 
a surprise to investors and  l onger-term interest rates would be  expected to fall.  Market 
participants might find an open-ended purchase program along the lines of paragraph 3 
difficult to interpret because it would be  a notable departure from past purchase 
programs, making the size of the effect on l onger-term interest rates more than usually 
uncertain.  Primary dealers, on average, saw about a 25 percent probability of a cut in the remuneration rate on required and excess reserves at some point within a year, but the 
probability of such a change at the August meeting was notab ly smaller.  Thus, if the 
2 Additional considerations related to possible changes in the remuneration rate on excess reserves 
can be found in the memo, “Reconsid ering Lowering the IOER Rate,” sent to the Committee on October 
25, 2011. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 27 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
interest rate on excess reserves were reduce d, shorter-term yields would likely decline 
several basis points, in addition to the effects of a ny other actions the Committee 
announced.  The impact could be amplified by the increase in reserv e balances generated 
by the new purchase program and the end of sales of short-term Treasury securities under 
the MEP.  With any combination of the options in Alternative A, equity prices would 
probably increase, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar would likely decline. 
 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Smoothing through the month-to-month fl uctuations in the data, FOMC 
participants may see the economic recovery as continuing on a sustainable course.  
Labor-market and spending data have decelerated from earlier in the year, but 
participants may view this slowing as prim arily attributable to temporary factors, 
including possible seasonal and weather-related distortions.  They may also be 
encouraged by the nearly one percentage poi nt decline in the unemployment rate since 
last summer.  Meanwhile, household spendi ng and business fixed investment have 
continued to advance, and some indicators of conditions in the housing sector have 
continued to show improvement.  Polic ymakers may judge that overall financial 
conditions in the United States remain supportive of economic growth even though 
financial strains in Europe have intensifie d of late.  Furthermore, policymakers may 
believe that monetary policy actions taken to date are sufficien t to support sustained 
economic recovery and may conclude that th e underlying pace of growth in output will 
pick up in the near-term to a rate somewhat above their assessment of the growth rate of 
potential output, and so might view the projected pace of improvement in the labor market as adequate.  If so, they may prefer to  maintain a policy stance similar to that at 
the previous meeting an d make no further changes to the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet 
or the Committee’s forward guidance, or they may even wish to begin scaling back the public’s expectations for the duration of the cu rrent low range of the federal funds rate.  
These possibilities would be c onsistent with a statement like that in Alternative C. 
Committee members whose outlook for th e economy and whose assessment of 
the risks has not changed signi ficantly since the June meeti ng might think it imprudent to 
change policy substantially at this juncture , and so may prefer to leave the forward 
guidance unchanged, as offered in one option in  paragraph 3.  In c ontrast, participants 
whose evolving views on the economic outlook and the appropriate path for the federal 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 28 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
funds rate have led them to an ticipate a significantly earlier first increase in the funds rate 
than was indicated by the Committee’s statements so far this year, and who see the 
downside risks to the outlook as manageable, might want to adjust the forward guidance 
at this meeting.  Alternatively, as in paragraph 3′ , the FOMC could eliminate the calendar 
date from its forward guidance and replace it with new language that describes in 
somewhat greater detail the key economic f actors that the Committee will consider in 
deciding when to first increase its target for the federal funds rate.  If the public 
understood this new language, investors woul d modify their assessments of the likely 
timing of the first increase in the target funds rate as thes e factors change over time.   
A statement like those included in Alternativ e C, even with the option that retains 
the late 2014 date, would strike market participants as likely  signaling a faster removal of 
policy accommodation, resulting in higher interest rates and a d ecline in equity prices.  A 
statement that moved forward the expected date  of the first increase in the funds rate—or 
that included language that inve stors read as indicating that  the date was likely to be 
substantially earlier than pr eviously thought—would greatly surprise financial market 
participants.  According to the Desk’s surv ey, the primary dealers see zero probability 
that the Committee will move forw ard its expected date of liftoff at this meeting.  Hence, 
moving projected liftoff closer would likely cause a sizable adjustment in market 
participants’ expectations of the policy ra te path, leaving market interest rates 
significantly higher at maturities beyond a year or so.  If the Committee were to drop the 
date from its forward guidance, investors might well be quite uncertain about the 
Committee’s intentions, at least until policymakers provided additional information about 
the likely path for policy.  Furthermore, par ticipants have priced in significant odds of 
additional asset purchases in the near future, and the statement in Alternative C (with or without a change in the expect ed liftoff date) would be read as a signal that such action 
was unlikely to be forthcoming, putting furthe r upward pressure on longer-term rates and 
weighing on equity prices.  Any statement along the lines of Alte rnative C would likely 
lead to an appreciation of the dollar. 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 29 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE 
The staff has prepared three scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy alternatives A, B,  and C.  The scenario corresponding to 
Alternative A ends the maturity extens ion program (MEP) immediately, expands 
holdings of longer-term securitie s by $1 trillion by the end of  the third quarter of 2013, 
and pushes the first increase of the target fe deral funds rate to mi d-2015.  The details of 
this scenario mimic the language  in paragraph 3' of that statement and are also roughly 
consistent with the open-ended purchase program  in paragraph 3 if purchases last, and are 
expected to last, for a little more than a year.  The scenario co rresponding to Alternative 
B incorporates a continuation of the MEP as announced in June and has the first increase 
in the federal funds rate in December 2014.  The third scenario corresponds to 
Alternative C, in which the MEP is also co mpleted as scheduled, but the federal funds 
rate rises above the current ta rget range in late 2013, one ye ar earlier than in Alternative 
B. Projections under each scenario are ba sed on assumptions about the trajectory of
various components of the balance sheet.  Details of these assumptions, as well as
projections for each major component of the balance sheet, can be found in Explanatory
Note D.
For the balance sheet scenar io that corresponds to Alte rnative B, e ssentially all 
Treasury s
ecurities with remaining maturities  of approximately three years or less are 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 30 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
either allowed to mature without reinvest ment or are sold and the same amount of 
Treasury securities with remaining maturities of six years to thirty years are purchased 
under the MEP.  The Committee’s program to reinvest principal payments from its 
holdings of agency debt and MBS into ag ency MBS remains unchanged.  These policy 
choices would keep the System Open Mark et Account (SOMA) securities holdings 
roughly constant at about $2.6 trillion until mid-2014. 
In this scenario, consistent with the stat ement language that the federal funds rate 
is expected to be at exceptionally low levels  “at least through late  2014,” we assume that 
the first increase in the target fe deral funds rate is in December 2014.3  The date of liftoff 
is a key determinant of the tr ajectory of the balance shee t.  In June 2014, six months 
before the first increase in the target federa l funds rate, all reinvestment is assumed to 
cease, and the balance sheet begins to contra ct.  Because the MEP is assumed to remove 
virtually all short-dated Treas ury securities from the portf olio, in 2014 and in the first 
half of 2015 the only contracti on in the balance sheet is a re sult of maturing or prepaying 
agency MBS and agency debt.  In June 2015, si x months after the ini tial increase in the 
target federal funds rate, the Committee begins to  sell its holdings of agency securities at 
a pace that reduces the amount of these securities in the portfolio to zero in five years, 
that is, by May 2020.4  Through these redemptions and sale s, the size of th e balance sheet 
is normalized by April  2018.5,6  The balance sheet then begi ns to expand, with increases 
in SOMA holdings essentially matching the gr owth of Federal Reserve Bank capital and 
currency in circulation.  The balance sheet reaches a size of $2 trillion by the end of 
2020.    
                                                 
3 This liftoff date for the federal funds rate is two months later than that assumed in the balance 
sheet projections from the June Teal book Book B but is the same as th e current staff forecast in Tealbook 
Book A.   
4 Consistent with the exit principles the Committee announced in the minutes of the June 2011 
FOMC meeting, we assume the Committee directs the Desk to only sell agency securities during the exit 
period in order to promote a timely return to an all-Treasury SOMA portfolio. 
5 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse re purchase agreements and term deposits) are not 
modeled in any of the scenarios presented.  Use of these tools would result in a shift in the composition of Federal Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corresponding increase in reverse repurchase agreements or term deposits—but would not produce an overall change in the size of the balance sheet. 
6 The projected timing of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet depends importantly on 
the level of reserve balances that is assumed to be necessary to conduct monetary policy; currently, we 
assume that level of reserve balances to be $25 billi on.  A higher demand for reserve balances would, all 
else equal, lead to an earlier norma lization of the size of the balance sheet. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 31 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
In the scenario for Alternative A, the Committee is assumed to end the MEP 
immediately and begin a $1 trillion LSAP pr ogram in August.  The LSAP program is 
assumed to include purchases of $600 billion in  Treasury securities at  a pace of about $45 
billion per month and $400 billion in agency  MBS at a pace of about $30 billion per 
month.  Purchases are completed by the end of the third quarter of 2013.  The Committee 
reinstitutes its policy to  reinvest principal payments from  Treasury securities at auction 
and continues reinvesting principal payments from agency MBS and agency debt 
securities into agency MBS.  In this s cenario, total assets peak at $3.9 trillion in 
December 2013.  In December 2014, six months pr ior to the assumed first increase in the 
federal funds rate in June 2015, all reinvestment is assumed to cease, and the balance sheet begins to contract.  Six months after th e lift off of the federa l funds rate, sales of 
agency securities begin and continue for five  years.  The balance sheet is normalized by 
December 2018.  
For the scenario that corresponds to A lternative C, the Committee completes the 
current MEP as in Alternative B.  In this scen ario, the federal funds ra te is assumed to lift 
off in December 2013, one year earlier than in Alternative B.  Corresponding to this 
earlier increase in the federal funds rate, reinvestment of principal from maturing or 
prepaying securities ends in J une 2013, after which time all securities are allowed to roll 
off the portfolio.  Finally, sales of agency securities commence in J une 2014 and last for 
five years.
7  Because of the earlier redemptions and sales, the size of the balance sheet is 
normalized in November 2017, five months earlier than under Alternative B. 
On the liability side of the balance sheet, the forecasted path for reserve balances 
for Alternatives B and C remains at $1.5 trillion until the exit strategy begins, roughly the same level as in the June Tealbook’s Alternativ e B.  The level of re serve balances under 
Alternative A peaks at $2.5 tr illion—noticeably higher than in  Alternative B—because of 
the $1 trillion LSAP program.   
In the scenario corresponding to Alternativ e B, the monetary base is roughly flat 
from 2012 to 2013, given the trajectory for the portfolio.  Once exit begins, the monetary 
                                                 
7 To simplify the projections, the prepayment paths for legacy agency MBS holdings and the 
premiums associated with MBS reinvestment calculated under Alternative C match those for Alternative B.  
This simplifying assumption likely overstates somewhat both prepayments on MBS, which are reinvested 
into new MBS, and the associated premiums under Altern ative C.  As a result, th e size of the balance sheet 
is likely somewhat larger, and the date of normalization is likely a little later than would be the case if the interest rate path was recalibrated based on this scenario. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 32 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
base shrinks through the second quarter of 2018, primarily reflecting a decline in reserve 
balances as the balance sheet contracts.  Starting in the third quar ter of 2018, after reserve 
balances are assumed to have stabilized at  $25 billion, the monetary base begins to 
expand again, in line with the growth of Fe deral Reserve notes in circulation.  The 
monetary base under Alternative A expands mo re rapidly in the near term than under 
Alternative B due to the LSAP program and th en declines at a fast er pace beginning in 
2015 because of a larger amount of securities re demptions and a larger volume of sales of 
agency securities.  The resumption in the expansion of the monetary base in Alternative A begins in the second quarter of 2019.  U nder Alternative C, the monetary base 
contracts faster than under Alternative B because of the assumed earlier liftoff. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 33 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
  Apr-12 -12.2 -12.2 -12.2 -12.2
May-12 -8.7 -8.7 -8.7 -8.8
Jun-12 -4.6 -4.6 -4.6 7.9
Jul-12 6.2 6.9 6.2 22.5
Aug-12 12.2 21.6 12.0 10.7
Sep-12 -4.3 15.8 -4.4 -3.4
Oct-12 -11.9 14.5 -12.1 -10.0
Nov-12 8.8 38.5 8.6 7.9
Dec-12 1.2 31.3 1.1 5.8
2011 Q3 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0
2011 Q4 -5.9 -5.9 -5.9 -5.9
2012 Q1 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5
2012 Q2 -3.9 -3.9 -3.9 -2.5
2012 Q3 2.3 6.9 2.2 10.3
2012 Q4 -1.5 23.3 -1.7 -0.52013 Q1 -2.2 28.9 -2.2 -1.0
2013 Q2 -2.4 27.5 -2.4 -2.8
2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.92011 32.9 32.9 32.9 32.9
2012 0.6 8.1 0.5 3.2
2013 0.6 28.9 -1.6 0.2
2014 -1.8 -0.2 -5.0 -1.0
2015 -4.4 -6.9 -7.9 -6.6
2016 -16.6 -17.7 -17.6 -16.6
2017 -18.0 -19.8 -18.6 -18.1
2018 -7.3 -27.4 3.7 -6.3
Note: Not seasonally adjusted.Annual - Q4 to Q4 MonthlyGrowth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternative B Alternative A
Percent, annual rateAlternative C June Alt B
Quarterly
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 34 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial sector  debt is projected to expa nd at an annual rate of 4¾ 
percent this year, driven by a significant expansion in fe deral government debt and a 
modest rise in private nonfinancial debt.  In the next two years, domestic nonfinancial 
debt growth is expected to slow to about 4 percent, on average, as federal debt rises less 
rapidly and private debt accel erates only gradually.  Nonf inancial business debt is 
forecasted to increase at a modest pace ove r the projection period, reflecting favorable 
financing conditions and increasing capital expenditures.  Home mortgage debt is 
projected to decline again this  year and edge up in the ne xt two years, as financing 
conditions are expected to remain tight, de mand for owner-occupied housing is expected 
to stay weak, and house prices are forecas ted to increase only slowly.  Meanwhile, 
consumer credit is projected to expand at an  annual rate of more than 7 percent, on 
average, throughout the forecast period, driven by a gradual eas ing of credit conditions as 
well as modestly rising demand for student loans and for loans to finance purchases of 
consumer durables. 
Commercial bank credit is expected to in crease moderately over the forecast 
period.  Core loans—the sum of commercial  and industrial (C&I), real estate, and 
consumer loans—are projected to expand m odestly during the remainder of 2012 mainly 
due to continued strength in C&I lending.  Though C&I loans are exp ected to grow more 
slowly after this ye ar, core loan growth picks up somewhat in 2013 and 2014 as real 
estate and consumer loan growth rises in line with the anticipated gradual improvements 
in economic activity, credit quality, and ba nks’ willingness to lend.  In contrast, 
commercial real estate loans are projecte d to contract through mid-2013—and only rise 
slightly thereafter—as high vacancy rates, de pressed prices for commercial properties, 
and the poor credit quality of existing loans ar e likely to suppress activ ity in this sector 
for some time.  Banks’ securities holdings ar e projected to expand at a moderate pace in 
2012, with growth slowing in 2013 and 2014 as deposit growth ebbs and loan demand 
strengthens. 
Staff anticipates that M2 will continue to grow faster than nominal income 
through the remainder of 2012 but expand more slowly than nominal income, on balance, 
in 2013 and 2014.  Ongoing concerns about developments in Europe and the U.S. growth 
outlook will likely encourage inve stors to add to their already elevated allocations of M2 
assets in 2012.  Staff expects that a portion of the high level of M2 balances will begin to 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 35 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
unwind early in 2013 because of the expira tion of the unlimited FDIC insurance on 
noninterest-bearing transaction deposits.8  M2 balances are forecasted to continue to 
unwind in 2014 as investors reallocate their po rtfolios toward riskier assets in line with 
the projected firming in economic growth and monetary policy.  Turning to the 
components of M2, liquid deposits are expected to grow at a brisk pace for the remainder 
of 2012 but then slow significantly in 2013 a nd 2014.  In contrast, retail money market 
funds and small time deposits are projected to decline throughout the forecast period.  
Currency growth is expected to gradually decline to a pace consistent with its historical average of 6 percent by mid-2013 and continue at  that pace over the rest of the projection 
period.   
  
                                                 
8 The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 provides unlimited 
deposit insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts in excess of $250,000 from 
December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012.  These deposits are estimated to have grown nearly 50 
percent from December 31, 2010, and currently make up about 15 percent of M2 or about $1.5 trillion. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 36 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
Growth Rates for M2  
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast*
Jan-12  16.4
Feb-12  3.7
Mar-12  4.3
Apr-12  5.8
May-12  4.3
Jun-12  5.7
Jul-12  6.2
Aug-12 4.1
Sep-12  4.2
Oct-12  3.9
Nov-12 4.0
Dec-12  4.0
  
Quarterly Growth Rates
2012 Q1  8.7
2012 Q2  4.9
2012 Q3  5.2
2012 Q4  4.0
2013 Q1  1.8
2013 Q2  2.3
2013 Q3  3.1
2013 Q4  3.4
2014 Q1  3.5
2014 Q2  3.5
2014 Q3  3.5
2014 Q4  0.6
  
Annual Growth Rates  
2012 5.8
2013 2.7
2014 2.8
* This forecast is consistent with nominal GDP and interest rates in the 
Tealbook forecast.  Actual data through July 16, 2012; projections thereafter. 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 37 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
DIRECTIVE  
The directive that was issued in June a ppears on the next page, followed by drafts 
for an August directive that correspond to each of the policy alternatives.   
The directives for Alternatives B and C would instruct the Desk to leave the total 
face value of domestic securi ties in the SOMA about unchanged and to take appropriate 
steps to complete by the end of Decembe r 2012 the MEP of $267 billion that was 
announced in June.  Under Alternative A, th e Committee would direct the Desk to begin 
a new large-scale asset purchase program.  This purchase program would replace the 
previously announced maturity extension pr ogram.  Specifically, the Desk would be 
directed either to execute purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities 
and $400 billion of agency MBS by the end of the third quarter of 2013, or to begin 
purchasing longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $45 billion per month and agency MBS at a pace of about $30 billion per month.  Each of the draft directives would 
also instruct the Desk to continue the curre nt practice of reinvesting principal payments 
on all agency debt and agency MBS in ag ency MBS.  Alternatives B and C would 
continue the practice of redeeming maturi ng Treasury securities at auction, while 
Alternative A would reinstate the policy of rolling over matu ring Treasuries at auction. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 38 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
June 2012 Directive  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 year s to 30 years with a 
total face value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities 
of 3 years or less with a total face value of $400 billion.  Following the conclusion of these purchases, the Committee directs the De sk to purchase Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years with a total f ace value of about $267 billion 
by the end of December 2012, and to sell or redeem Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 3 years or less wi th a total face value of  about $267 billion.  
For the duration of this program, the Committ ee directs the Desk to suspend its current 
policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues.  The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its existing po licy of reinvesting prin cipal payments on all 
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed secu rities in the System Open Market Account 
in agency mortgage-backed securities.  Thes e actions should maintain the total face value 
of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
engage in dollar roll transact ions as necessary to facilita te settlement of the Federal 
Reserve's agency MBS transactions.  The Sy stem Open Market Account Manager and the 
Secretary will keep the Committee informed  of ongoing developments regarding the 
System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's 
objectives of maximum employme nt and price stability.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 39 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
August 2012 Directive—Alternative A  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity exten sion program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 year s to 30 years with a 
total face value of $400 billion, and to sell  Treasury securities with remaining maturities 
of 3 years or l ess with a total face value of $400 billion.  Following the conclusion of 
these purchases , the Committee directs the Desk to  purchase Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years with a total f ace value of about $267 billion 
by the end of December 2012, and to sell or redeem  Treasury securities with remaining 
maturities of approximately 3 years or less with a total face value of about $267 billion  
begin a new large-scale asset purchase program .  This program replaces the 
previously announced maturity ex tension program.  Specifically,  [ the Desk is 
directed to purchase longer-te rm Treasury securities at a pace of about $45 billion 
per month and to purchase agency mortgage-b acked securities at a pace of about 
$30 billion per month.  | the Desk is directed to purchase $600 billion of longer-term 
Treasury securities and $400 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities by the 
end of the third quarter of 2013.  ]  For the duration of this program, the Committee 
directs the Desk to suspend it s current   The desk is also direc ted to reinstate the  policy 
of rolling over maturing Treasur y securities into new issues .  The Committee directs the 
Desk to maintain its existing policy of reinve sting principal payments on all agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in agency 
mortgage-backed securities.  These actions should maintain the total face value of 
domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.   The Committee directs the Desk to 
engage in dollar roll and coupon swap  transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement 
of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions.  The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments 
regarding the System's balance sheet that co uld affect the attainment over time of the 
Committee's objectives of maximum em ployment and price stability.  
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 40 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
August 2012 Directive—Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity ex tension program it began  announced  in June  September to 
purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury s ecurities with remaining maturities of 6 
years to 30 years with a total face value of $400 billion, and to sell or redeem Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a total face value of $400 
billion.  Following the conclusion of th ese purchases, the Committee directs the  Desk  to 
purchase Treasury securities with  remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years with a total 
face value of about $267 billion by the end of December 2012, and to sell or redeem 
Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 3 years or less with a total 
face value of about $267 billion.  For the duration of this program, the Committee directs 
the Desk to suspend its current policy of rolling over maturing Treas ury securities into 
new issues.  The Committee directs the Desk to  maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the 
System Open Market Account in agency mo rtgage-backed securitie s.  These actions 
should maintain the total face value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  
The Committee directs the Desk to engage in  dollar roll transactions as necessary to 
facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserv e's agency MBS transactions.  The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secr etary will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System's  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 41 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
August 2012 Directive—Alternative C  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity ex tension program it began  announced  in June  September to 
purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury s ecurities with remaining maturities of 6 
years to 30 years with a total face value of $400 billion, and to sell or redeem Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a total face value of $400 
billion.  Following the conclusion of these purchases, the Committee directs the Desk  to 
purchase Treasury securities with  remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years with a total 
face value of about $267 billion by the end of December 2012, and to sell or redeem 
Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 3 years or less with a total 
face value of about $267 billion.  For the duration of this program, the Committee directs 
the Desk to suspend its current policy of rolling over maturing Treas ury securities into 
new issues.  The Committee directs the Desk to  maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the 
System Open Market Account in agency mo rtgage-backed securitie s.  These actions 
should maintain the total face value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  
The Committee directs the Desk to engage in  dollar roll transactions as necessary to 
facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserv e's agency MBS transactions.  The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secr etary will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System's  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 42 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Explanatory Notes  
A. Policy Rules Used in “M onetary Policy Strategies” 
The table below gives the expressions for th e selected policy rules used in “Monetary 
, while the t  denotes the nominal federal funds rate for quarter ௧	ܴ In the table, Policy Strategies.”  
right-hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation 
for the current quarter and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap estimate for the 
current period as well as its one-quarter-ahead forecast ( gap t and gap t+1|t), and the forecast of the 
three-quarter-ahead annual change in the output gap ( 4gap t+3|t).  The value of policymakers’ 
long-run inflation objective, denoted π*, is 2 percent.  The nominal income targeting rule 
responds to the nominal income gap, which is defined as the difference between nominal income 
 (100 times the log of ∗
௧݊ݕ(  100 times the log of the level of nominal GDP) and a target value ௧݊ݕ 
potential nominal GDP).  Target nominal GDP in 2007:Q4 is set equal to potential real GDP in 
that quarter multiplied by the GDP deflator in th at quarter; subsequently, target nominal GDP 
grows 2 percentage points per year faster than potential GDP. 
The first two of the selected rules were studied by Taylor (1993, 1999).  The outcome-
based rule uses policy reactions estimated using real-time data over the sample 
1988:Q12006:Q4.  The intercept of the outcome-based rule was chosen so that it is consistent 
with a 2 percent long-run inflation objective and a long-run, quarterly real interest rate of 2¼ 
percent, a value used in the FRB/US model.  The intercepts of the Taylor (1993, 1999) rules are 
set at 2¼ percent—instead of Taylor’s original value of 2 percent—for the same reason.  The 2¼ 
percent real rate estimate also enters the long-run intercept of the nominal income targeting rule.  
The prescriptions of the first-difference rule do no t depend on the level of the output gap or the 
long-run, quarterly real interest rate; see Orphanides (2003).    
Near-term prescriptions from these rules are calculated using Tealbook projections for 
inflation and the output gap.  The first-differen ce rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the 
nominal income targeting rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-hand-side variable.  When Taylor (1993) rule ௧݌ܽ݃0.5 ൅ ሻ ∗ െߨ ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ߨ 2.25 ൌ ௧ܴ 
Taylor (1999) rule ௧݌ܽ݃ ൅ ሻ ∗ െߨ ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ߨ 2.25 ൌ ௧ܴ 
Outcome-based rule 0.19 ൅ ௧ିଶܴ0.39 െ ௧ିଵܴ1.2 ൌ ௧ܴ ሾ0.79 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ݌ܽ݃2.72 െ ௧݌ܽ݃3.66 ൅ ሿ 
First-difference rule ௧ାଷ൫ߨ0.5 ൅ ௧ିଵൌܴ ௧ܴ | ௧ାଷ݌ܽ݃ ସΔ0.5 ൯൅ ∗ െߨ ௧ |௧ 
Nominal income 
targeting rule  ሻ ∗
௧݊ െݕ ௧݊ ൅ݕ ∗ 2.25 ൅ ߨሺ0.25 ൅ ௧ିଵ0.75ܴ ൌ ௧ܴ 
Explanatory Notes  
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
	   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 43 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, th e lines denoted “Previous Tealbook” report rule 
prescriptions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of 
the lagged funds rate in the previous quarter.  When the Tealbook is published late in the quarter, 
the lines denoted “Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescriptions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, but jumping off from the average value for the policy rate thus far this 
quarter. 
REFERENCES  
 
Erceg, Christopher, Michael Kiley, and David López-Salido (2011).  “Alternative 
Monetary Policy Frameworks.”  Memo se nt to the Committee on October 6, 2011.  
McCallum, Bennett T., and Edward Nelson (19 99).  “Nominal Income Targeting in an 
Open-Economy Optimizing Model,” Journal of Monetary Economics , Vol. 43 (June), pp. 553–
578.  
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , Vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022.  
Taylor, John B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , Vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214. 
Taylor, John B.  (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341. 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 44 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
B. Estimates of the Equilib rium and Actual Real Rates 
An estimate of the equilibrium real rate a ppears as a memo item in the first exhibit, 
“Policy Rules and the Staff Projection.”  The c oncept of the short-run equilibrium real rate 
underlying the estimate corresponds to the level of th e real federal funds rate  that is consistent 
with output reaching potential in twelve quarters using the projection for the economy of 
FRB/US, the staff’s large-scale econometric model of the U.S. economy.  This estimate depends 
on a very broad array of economic factors, some of  which take the form of projected values of the 
model’s exogenous variables.  The estimate reported is the “Tealbook-consistent” estimate of r*, 
which is generated after the path s of exogenous variables in the FRB/US model are adjusted so 
that they match those in the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model simulations then determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the exogenous 
variables in the extended baseline forecast. 
The estimated actual real federal funds rate reported in the exhibit is constructed as the 
difference between the federal funds rate and the trailing four-quarter change in the core PCE price index.  The federal funds rate is specified as the midpoint of the target range for the federal 
funds rate on the Tealbook Book B publication date. 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 45 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
   
C. FRB/US Model Simulations 
The exhibits of “Monetary Policy Strategies” that report results from simulations of 
alternative policies are derived from dynamic simu lations of the FRB/US model.  The simulated 
policy rule is assumed to be in force over the whole period covered by the simulation.  For the 
optimal control simulations, the dotted line la beled “Previous Tealbook” is derived from the 
optimal control simulations, when applied to the previous Tealbook projection. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 46 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
D. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section titled “Long-Run Projections of the Bala nce Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are constructe d at a monthly frequency from July 2012 to 
December 2020.  The few balance sheet items th at are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level ob served on June 29, 2012.  The projections for all 
major asset and liability categories under each scen ario are summarized in the tables that follow 
the bullet points.  
The Tealbook projections for the scenario corresponding to Alternative  B assume that 
the target federal funds rate begins to increase in December 2014, consistent with the forward 
guidance in the FOMC’s statement that the target  federal funds rate is expected to be at 
exceptionally low levels “at least th rough late 2014.”  This  date of liftoff is two months later than 
that assumed in the balance sheet projections from the June Tealbook Book B for Alternative B but is the same as the current staff forecast in Tealbook Book A.  In the scenario corresponding to 
Alternative A, it is assumed that the target fede ral funds rate begins to increase in June 2015, 
consistent with the FOMC statement for this a lternative that the Comm ittee currently anticipates 
that exceptionally low levels for the target federal funds rate are likely to be warrented “at least 
through mid 2015.”  The projection for the scenar io corresponding to Alternative C assumes the 
target federal funds rate lifts off in December 2013, one year earlier than in Alternative B.
1  The 
balance sheet projections assume that no use of short-term draining tools is necessary to achieve the projected path for the target federal funds rate.
2 
                                                 
1 The federal funds rate paths in Alternatives A an d C are adjusted to reflect their assumed liftoff 
dates that are different from the staf f forecast.  By the end of the for ecast horizon, all federal funds rate 
paths converge to the projection assumed in the July T ealbook staff forecast.  The projected path of the 10-
year Treasury yield in Alternative A is the yield assumed in the July T ealbook staff forecast adjusted for 
the expectations effect of a later target federal fund s rate liftoff (see the box on “Forward Rate Guidance 
and Policy Expectations” from the January 2012 Tealbook Book B) and for the term premium effect 
associated with the LSAP program as well as the later liftoff date for the federal funds rate which triggers a 
later start to asset redemptions and sales.  For the projected path in Alternative C, we adjust the 10-year 
Treasury yield to account for the change in term premiums due to the earlier lift off of the federal funds rate. 
2 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities would change: Increases in term deposits and reverse 
repurchase agreements would be matched by corresponding declines in reserve balances.  Presumably, 
these draining tools would be wound down as the balance sheet returns to its steady state growth path, so 
that the projected paths for Treasury securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 47 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency Mortgage-Backe d Securities (MBS), and Agency Debt 
Securities 
 The assumptions under Alternative B are: 
o The FOMC is assumed to continue the MEP as announced in June at its current pace 
through the end of 2012, directing the Desk to purchase Treasury securities with remaining maturity of 6 years to 30 years and to sell or redeem Treasury securities with remaining maturity of approximately 3 years or less.  In total, the FOMC purchases an additional $267 billion in longer-term Treasury securities as a result of the MEP extension that started in July 2012.  
o The FOMC continues to reinvest the pro ceeds from principal payments on its agency 
securities holdings in agency MBS until J une 2014—six months prior to the assumed 
increase in the target federal funds rate.  Starting in June 2014, all securities are allowed to roll off the portfolio as they mature or prepay. 
o The Federal Reserve begins to sell agency  MBS and agency debt securities in June 
2015, roughly six months after the assumed da te of the first increase in the target 
federal funds rate.  Holdings of agency securities are reduced over five years and 
reach zero by May 2020. 
o For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment is  based on staff models using estimates of 
housing market factors from one of the program’s analytical providers, long-run average prepayment speeds of MBS, and interest rate projections from the Tealbook.  
The projected rate of prepayment is  sensitive to these underlying assumptions. 
 In the scenario corresponding to Alternative A, the Committee is assumed to begin a $1 
trillion LSAP program in August 2012 under which it purchases $600 billion in Treasury 
securities at a pace of about $45 billion per month and $400 billion in current coupon 
agency MBS at a pace of about $30 billion per month through the third quarter of 2013. The Treasury security purchase distribution is assumed to be identical to the distribution 
used for the $600 billion Treasury security LSAP program announced in November 2010, 
where the maturity of securities purchased ranged from 1.5 years to 30 years.  In addition, the Committee is assumed to end its sales of shorter-term Treasury securities and reinstitute its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee is also assumed to maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal 
payments from its holdings of agency debt  and agency MBS in agency MBS.  In 
December 2014, six months prior to the assume d increase in the federal funds rate in  
June 2015, principal payments from all securiti es are allowed to roll off the portfolio.  
Sales of agency securities begin in June 2015 and continue for five years. 
 In the scenario corresponding to Alternative C, the Committee is expected to continue the 
MEP at its current pace through the end of  2012 as in Alternative B.  The FOMC 
continues to reinvest the proceeds from pr incipal payments on its agency securities 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 48 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
holdings in agency MBS until June 2013—six  months prior to the assumed increase in 
the target federal funds rate.3  Starting in June 2013, all securities are allowed to roll off 
the portfolio as they mature or prepay.  The Federal Reserve begins to sell agency MBS 
and agency debt securities in June 2014.  Ho ldings of agency securities are reduced over 
five years and reach zero by May 2019.    
 Because current and expected interest rates in  the near term are below the average coupon 
rate on outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at which these securities are 
purchased will generally exceed their face va lue, with a larger premium for longer-
maturity securities.  As a result, although  the par value of securities holdings remains 
constant under the MEP, premiums associated  with securities purchases in this program, 
and hence total assets, will have risen.  Thr ough July 2012, on net, premiums associated 
with the MEP are about $60 billion.  In Alternatives B and C, where the MEP is assumed to continue to year end, premiums will increase on net an additional $31 billion.  In 
Alternative A, where an additional $600 billion in Treasury securities are purchased, 
premiums are boosted by an additional $10 billion relative to the scenarios without these 
Treasury securities purchases.  The increase in premiums is reflected in higher total assets and in higher reserve balances.   
 The large-scale asset purchase program in Alternative A would put downward pressure 
on market interest rates, in particular primary and secondary mortgage rates.   
 The current and near-term market value of agency MBS is assumed to be four percent 
above its face value.  As a result, for Alternative A, the $400 billion MBS purchases will cause unamortized premiums on the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet to rise by roughly $16 billion relative to a scenario without  these MBS purchases.  The increase in 
premiums is reflected in higher total assets and in higher reserve balances. 
 The level of central bank liquidity swaps is  assumed to decline gradually, as the recent 
foreign central bank swap auctions mature, a nd then return to zero in September 2012.  
 In all scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  Once reserve 
balances drop to this level, the Desk first purchases Treasury bills to maintain this level 
of reserve balances going forward.  Purchases of bills continue until such securities comprise one-third of the Federal Reserve’s total Treasury securities holdings—about the average share prior to the crisis.  Once this share is reached, the Federal Reserve buys coupon securities in addition to bills to main tain an approximate composition of the 
portfolio of one-third bills and two-thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
 Credit through the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) declines to zero 
by the end of 2015, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
                                                 
3 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflect interest rate projections as of July 24, 2012. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 49 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 The assets held by TALF LLC remain at about  $1 billion through 2014  before declining 
to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF LLC consist of investments of 
commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in connec tion with a decision of a borrower not to 
repay a TALF loan. 
 The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC and Maid en Lane III LLC decline to zero gradually 
over time.   
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2014.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as in the extended Tealbook projection. 
 The level of reverse repurchase agreements  (RRPs) is assumed to remain around $70 
billion, about the average level of RRPs associat ed with foreign official and international 
accounts observed over the past three years. 
 Balances held in the U.S. Treasury’s Gene ral Account (TGA) follow recent patterns until 
the assumed increase in the target federal funds rate in each alternative.  At that point, the TGA slowly drops back to its historical targ et level of $5 billion as it is assumed that the 
Treasury will implement a new cash management system and invest funds in excess of $5 billion. The TGA remains constant at $5 billion over the remainder of the forecast period. 
 We maintain the Supplementary Financing Acc ount (SFA) balance at its current level of 
zero throughout the forecast. 
 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years.
4 
 In general, increases in the level of Federa l Reserve assets are matched by higher levels 
of reserve balances.  All else equal, increase s in the levels of liability items, such as 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation or other liabilities, or increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 billion, purchases of 
Treasury securities are assumed in order to ma intain that level of reserve balances. 
                                                 
4 The annual growth rate of capital affects the date  of normalization of the size of the balance sheet 
and the size of the SO MA portfolio.  Growth in Reserve Bank capital has been modest over the past two 
years; however, even if Federal Reserve capital were assumed to be constant, normalization only would be 
pushed later by about a quarter. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 50 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 In the event that a Federal Reserve Bank’s earnings fall short of the amount necessary to 
cover operating costs, pay dividends, and equa te surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred 
asset would be recorded.  This deferred asset is recorded in lieu of reducing the Reserve 
Bank’s capital and is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet as “Interest on 
Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”   This liability takes on a positive value 
when weekly cumulative earnings have not yet been distributed to the Treasury and takes 
on a negative value when earnings fall shor t of the expenses listed above.  In all 
scenarios, System-wide earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses, and this line item is set to zero.   
TERM PREMIUM EFFECTS5 
 Under Alternative B, the current staff estimates of the contemporaneous term premium 
effect on the yield of the ten-year Treasury note is negative 70 basis points.  Based on the 
projection for the balance sheet, that term premium effect converges slowly toward zero 
over the forecast period as the portfolio normalizes.  The path of the term premium effect is a bit more negative than in the June T ealbook Alternative B because of the later liftoff 
date of the federal funds rate, which impli es securities remain out of the hands of the 
public for longer than in the last Tealbook.  
 Under Alternative A, the term premium effect is negative 89 basis points.  The effect is 
more negative than in Alternative B becau se of the assumed $1 trillion LSAP program 
and later lift off date of the federal funds rate. 
 Under Alternative C, the term premium effect is negative 63 basis points.  The effect is 
less negative than in Alternative B because of the earlier assumed increase in the federal 
funds rate which, in turn, leads to earlier asset redemptions and sales that push securities back into the hands of the public sooner. 
 
 
                                                 
5 Staff estimates use the model outlined in the appendix of the January 18, 2012, memo “Possible 
MBS Large-Scale Asset Purchase Program” written by staff at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and 
the Board of Governors.  More details of the model can be found in “Term Structure Modeling with Supply 
Factors and the Federal Reserve’s Large Scale Asset Purchase Programs” by Li and Wei, FEDS working 
paper # 37, 2012. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 51 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 Date Alternative B Alternative A Alternative C June 
Alternative B
2012 Q3 -70 -89 -63 -68
2012 Q4 -66 -86 -60 -65
2013 Q1 -63 -82 -56 -62
2013 Q2 -59 -78 -52 -58
2013 Q3 -55 -74 -47 -54
2013 Q4 -51 -69 -44 -50
2014 Q1 -47 -64 -40 -47
2014 Q2 -43 -59 -36 -43
2014 Q3 -40 -54 -33 -40
2014 Q4 -36 -50 -30 -37
2015 Q1 -33 -45 -27 -34
2015 Q2 -29 -40 -24 -31
2015 Q3 -26 -36 -21 -28
2015 Q4 -24 -32 -19 -26
2016 Q1 -21 -29 -17 -24
2016 Q2 -19 -25 -15 -22
2016 Q3 -17 -22 -13 -20
2016 Q4 -15 -20 -11 -18
2017 Q1 -13 -17 -10 -16
2017 Q2 -11 -15 -9 -15
2017 Q3 -10 -13 -8 -14
2017 Q4 -9 -11 -7 -13
2018 Q1 -8 -9 -6 -12
2018 Q2 -7 -8 -6 -11
2018 Q3 -7 -7 -6 -10
2018 Q4 -6 -6 -5 -10
2019 Q1 -6 -5 -5 -9
2019 Q2 -6 -5 -5 -9
2019 Q3 -5 -5 -5 -8
2019 Q4 -5 -4 -5 -8
2020 Q1 -5 -4 -4 -7
2020 Q2 -4 -4 -4 -7
2020 Q3 -4 -3 -4 -6
2020 Q4 -4 -3 -3 -610-Year Treasury Term Premium Effect
Basis Points
Quarterly Averages
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 52 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative B
Billions of dollars
Jun 29, 2012 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
Total assets 2,862 2,841 2,790 2,201 1,796 1,993
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 28 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 28 0 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 6 3 1 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC15 2 0 0 0 0
Securities held outright 2,606 2,594 2,570 2,022 1,652 1,873
U.S. Treasury securities 1,660 1,654 1,654 1,435 1,413 1,873
Agency debt securities 91 77 39 16 2 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 855 863 878 571 237 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 206 242 218 178 144 120
Total liabilities 2,808 2,779 2,708 2,092 1,653 1,804
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,070 1,108 1,250 1,390 1,535 1,687
Reverse repurchase agreements 70 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,647 1,584 1,372 616 32 32
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,524 1,492 1,365 610 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 91 90 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 32 2 2 2 2 2
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury3 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 55 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 53 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A 
Billions of dollars
Jun 29, 2012 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
Total assets 2,862 3,144 3,856 2,899 1,798 1,995
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 28 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 28 0 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 6 3 1 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC15 2 0 0 0 0
Securities held outright 2,606 2,901 3,617 2,714 1,656 1,884
U.S. Treasury securities 1,660 1,868 2,249 1,751 1,190 1,884
Agency debt securities 91 77 39 16 2 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 855 956 1,329 947 463 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 206 238 237 185 142 111
Total liabilities 2,808 3,082 3,774 2,791 1,655 1,805
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,070 1,108 1,250 1,390 1,535 1,687
Reverse repurchase agreements 70 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,647 1,886 2,435 1,312 32 32
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,524 1,794 2,344 1,306 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 91 90 90 5 5 5
Other Deposits 32 2 2 2 2 2
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury3 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 55 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 54 of 55
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
Billions of dollars
Jun 29, 2012 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
Total assets 2,862 2,839 2,587 1,995 1,796 1,993
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 28 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 28 0 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 6 3 1 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC15 2 0 0 0 0
Securities held outright 2,606 2,594 2,376 1,825 1,658 1,874
U.S. Treasury securities 1,660 1,654 1,654 1,435 1,592 1,874
Agency debt securities 91 77 39 16 2 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 855 863 683 374 64 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 206 240 209 170 138 119
Total liabilities 2,808 2,777 2,505 1,887 1,653 1,804
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,070 1,108 1,250 1,390 1,535 1,687
Reverse repurchase agreements 70 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,647 1,582 1,168 411 32 32
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,524 1,490 1,162 405 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 91 90 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 32 2 2 2 2 2
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury3 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 55 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
July 26, 2012
Page 55 of 55
Authorized for Public Release