 Prefatory Note 
 
 
T
he attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable p rovisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.  
Content last modified 02/03 /2017.   
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions  
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
April 21, 2011 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(This page is intentionally blank.)
Authorized for Public Release
  
Monetary Policy Strategies 
All of the staff’s estimates of short-run r*—the real federal funds rate that, if 
maintained, would return output to its poten tial in twelve quarters—declined somewhat 
over the intermeeting period; by historical sta ndards, the estimates remain low, and they 
are generally below the estimated actual r eal federal funds rate.  These downward 
revisions reflect a small widening in the sta ff’s estimate of current and projected output 
gaps.1  As shown in the first two columns of the table in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate,” the estimates of short-run r* that are conditioned on the staff outlook 
and estimates of the output gap (the “Tealbook-consistent” estimates generated from the 
FRB/US model and the EDO model) decreased  40 and 50 basis points, respectively.  The 
estimates of short-run r* generated from the FRB/US model and the EDO model using 
their own projections for output and infl ation declined 20 and 10 basis points, 
respectively.  The estimates of short-run r* from the single-equation model and the small 
structural model have decreased by a slightly larger amount—50 basis points each—as 
both are more sensitive than the other models to  the widening seen since the last round in 
the staff’s estimate of the recent output gap. 
While the staff foresees slightly greater slack in labor and product markets over the 
next several years than it did in March, the staff has also re vised up slightly its projection 
for core inflation over the next few years.  On net, policy prescriptions arising from 
optimal control simulations of the FRB/US model using the extended staff baseline 
projection now prescribe somewhat more moneta ry stimulus than in the last Tealbook, as 
displayed in the exhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy.”2  In these 
simulations, policymakers are assumed to pl ace equal weight on keeping core PCE 
inflation close to 2 percent, on keeping th e unemployment rate close to the effective 
NAIRU, and on minimizing changes in the federal funds rate.  As has been true for some 
time, the simulations indicate that the optimal  path of policy is affected significantly by 
the lower-bound constraint on the nominal fede ral funds rate.  With this constraint 
imposed, the funds rate does not begin to rise  appreciably until the fourth quarter of 2013, 
the unemployment rate remains above the sta ff estimate of the effective NAIRU until the 
                                                 
1 For a discussion of these revisions, see page 25 of Tealbook Book A. 
2The staff’s baseline forecast incorp orates the effects of the Fede ral Reserve’s large-scale asset 
purchases as announced in November, and these effects ar e held at their baseline levels in the optimal policy 
simulations. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 1 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011-10-8-6-4-202468 
-10-8-6-4-202468Percent     
 
Note:  Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals.  The actual real federal funds rate shown is based on lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation expectations.
For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A.  Estimates of     may change at the beginning of                        r*                                 
a quarter even when the staff outlook is unchanged because the twelve-quarter horizon covered by the calculation
has rolled forward one quarter.  Therefore, whenever the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, this table includes
a third column labeled "Current Quarter Estimate as of Previous Tealbook."Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation
Range of four model-based estimates
70 Percent confidence interval
90 Percent confidence interval
Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US)
Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures (Percent)
 
Current Current Quarter Estimate Previous
Tealbook as of Previous Tealbook Tealbook
    
Short-Run Measures    
    
   Single-equation model -1.8 -1.3 -1.4
    
   Small structural model -1.1 -0.6 -1.2
    
   EDO model (0.8 (0.9 (
0.7
    
   FRB/US model -2.5 -2.3 -2.4
    
   Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates    
    
      70 percent confidence interval -3.1 to 0.9   
    
      90 percent confidence interval -4.1 to 2.1   
    
   Tealbook-consistent measures    
    
      EDO model -0.3 (0.2 -0.3
    
      FRB/US model -1.5 -1.1 -1.4
    
Medium-Run Measures    
    
   Single-equation model (1.0 (1.1 (
1.1
    
   Small structural model (1.2 (1.3 (1.2
    
   Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates    
    
      70 percent confidence interval (0.2 to 2.0   
    
      90 percent confidence interval -0.5 to 2.6   
    
   TIPS-based factor model (2.0  2.0
    
Memo    
    
   Actual real federal funds rate -0.7  -0.7
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 2 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy
(2 Percent Inflation Goal)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-6-4-202468 
-6-4-202468Percent
 Nominal Federal Funds Rate
Current Tealbook: Constrained
Previous Tealbook: Constrained
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-8-6-4-2024 
-8-6-4-2024Percent
 Real Federal Funds Rate
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 201534567891011 
34567891011Percent
 Civilian Unemployment Rate
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20150.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Percent
 Core PCE Inflation
Four-quarter average
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 3 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
third quarter of 2014, and core inflation stays be low its target rate un til the fourth quarter 
of 2014 (black solid lines).3  Reflecting the revisions to the staff forecast, the constrained 
optimal funds rate path now departs from  the effective lower bound about one quarter 
later than in the March Tealbook.  If the nom inal funds rate could fall below zero, the 
optimal nominal funds rate, according to this  exercise, would decline to around minus  
1.6 percent in the second quarter of 2012, before returning to positive levels by the fourth 
quarter of 2013 (blue dashed line), thereby yielding a somewhat more favorable 
macroeconomic scenario than under the constrained simulations.   
On net, the staff’s revised projections for inflation and the output gap did not 
significantly alter the funds rate path implie d by the estimated outcome-based policy rule, 
which still shows the federal funds rate edgi ng above its effective lo wer bound in the third 
quarter of 2012.  As shown in the exhib it “The Policy Outlook in an Uncertain 
Environment,” the path associated with this rule—which forms the basis for the path of 
the federal funds rate in the staff’s baseline forecast—has the funds rate reaching  3.3 percent by the end of 2014, just a little below its value in the last Tealbook.   
As shown to the right, information from fi nancial markets suggests that there has 
been little change, on net, in investors’ expe ctations about the path  for the federal funds 
rate since the time of the March Tealbook.  Mark et participants cont inue to expect the 
federal funds rate to move above the current  target range during th e first half of 2012.  
Thereafter, the funds rate rises gradua lly toward 2.9 percent by the end of 2014. 
The lower panel of the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from simple policy 
rules.4  As shown in the left-hand columns, prescr iptions from all of th e rules, other than 
the first-difference rule, remain at the effective lower bound.  The right-hand columns 
display the prescriptions that would arise from these rules in the absence of the lower-
bound constraint.  Most of the unconstrained rule s prescribe a slightly lower federal funds 
rate than in March, as the widening in the es timate of the current output gap relative to the 
                                                 
3The staff’s estimate of the effective NAIRU falls fr om 6½ percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 
6 percent by the first quarter of 2013, and then to 5¼ percent by the end of 2015, as the extended 
unemployment benefits expire and labor market functioning progressively improves. 
4 The exhibit displays point-in-time prescriptions from the rules, taking as inputs the staff’s 
baseline forecast, without considering the dynamic effects of different po licy prescriptions on the economic 
outlook.  No adjustment to the rules has been made to account for the Federal Reserve’s asset holdings.  The accompanying box, “Considerations Related to the Pace and Timing of Policy Firming,” presents alternative 
simulations that incorporate the dyna mic consequences of different rule s for the funds rate path and the 
associated outcomes for in flation and real activity.  
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 4 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
The Policy Outlook in an Uncertain Environment
2011 2012 2013 20140123456789 
0123456789Percent
 
Note:  In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers' long-run inflation objective is
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule
Note: As in the March Tealbook, the staff baseline projection for the federal funds rate is based on the outcome-
based policy rule. Accordingly, the top-left panel does not report a separate series for the staff's projected funds rate. 
In both panels, the dark and light shading represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively.
Financial market quotes are as of April 20.Current Tealbook
Previous Tealbook
Memo2011 2012 2013 20140123456789 
0123456789Percent
 Information from Financial Markets
Current Tealbook
Previous Tealbook
 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules
 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy
  
2011Q2 2011Q3 2011Q2
2011Q3
      
Taylor (1993) rule 0.13
0.13  -0.49 0.03
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.44 0.02
      
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13  -3.40 -2.66
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -3.17 -2.53
      
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13  -0.30 -0.56
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.18 -0.45
      
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13  -0.05 -0.18
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.03 -0.16
      
First-difference rule 0.48 0.90  0.48 0.90
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.48 0.84  0.48 0.84
2011Q2 2011Q3
    
Staff assumption  0.10 0.13
    
Fed funds futures  
0.10 0.11
    
Median expectation of primary dealers  0.13 0.13
    
Blue Chip forecast (April 1, 2011)  0.20 0.20
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 5 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   Considerations  Related  to the Timing and Pace of Policy Firming  
As the economy  continues  to recover, the Committee  will need to begin  withdrawing  the 
policy accommodation  now in place.  Many factors will likely influence  the FOMC’s 
decisions  on the timing and pace of this tightening,  including  Committee  participants’  
judgments  concerning  the appropriate  responsiveness  of policy to movements  in real 
activity  and inflation as well  as the actual evolution  of economic  conditions.   Moreover,  
the Committee  will presumably  want to balance a variety of risks, including  the chance 
that inflation expectations  could begin  to drift up in the accommodative  policy 
environment,  and the possibility  that the recovery could falter and core inflation resume 
its downward  drift at a time when the federal funds rate was still constrained  by the 
lower bound.   
To illustrate a few of the considerations  involved,  we start  with  a set of FRB/US model 
simulations  in which underlying  economic  conditions  proceed as anticipated  in the staff 
baseline forecast but monetary  policy responds  to the movements  in real activity and 
inflation in different ways; these simulations  are shown in the left‐hand panels of the 
accompanying  figure.   Unlike the policy rule prescriptions  displayed  in the exhibit  “The 
Policy Outlook in an Uncertain  Environment,”  these simulations  incorporate  feedback  
between  the policy rule prescriptions  and the forecasts  of macroeconomic  variables.   In 
one case (blue lines),  the funds rate follows the prescriptions  of the Taylor (1993)  rule, 
while in another (red lines), policy follows the Taylor (1999)  rule.  Because  the latter rule is 
twice as responsive  as the former to economic  slack, it prescribes  both a considerably  
later start  to policy firming and a more rapid increase in rates once firming commences.   
Nevertheless,  outcomes  for unemployment  and inflation are generally  quite similar under 
the two rules  because private agents in the FRB/US model recognize  that the two rules 
imply a similar average stance of monetary  policy over the longer run.  In contrast,  
economic  outcomes  are somewhat  different  under the first‐difference  rule (green lines), 
which places no weight on the estimated  level  of slack and instead sets policy in response  
to projected  inflation and economic  growth  over the next few quarters.   Because this rule 
prescribes  an immediate  departure  from the effective lower bound and a considerably  
tighter stance of policy on average over the next five years, it implies  both a higher path 
for the unemployment  rate and a lower path  for inflation.    
The Committee  would also presumably  wish to recalibrate  the stance of policy should 
underlying  economic  conditions  depart from the trajectories  currently  anticipated  in the 
baseline projection.   This consideration  is illustrated  in the right‐ hand panels, which 
compare the staff baseline projection  with  two of the alternative  scenarios  discussed  in 
the “Risks and Uncertainty”  section of Book  A of the Tealbook;  in all cases, the federal 
funds rate follows the prescriptions  of the outcomes ‐based policy rule.  In the “lower 
potential”  scenario,  economic  slack  is less than policymakers  initially perceive,  leading to 
higher inflation,  weaker real activity, and a more rapid lift‐off.  In the “weaker  recovery 
with  further disinflation”  scenario,  the recovery stalls  and underlying  inflation continues  
to drift down, causing  the federal funds rate to remain at the effective lower bound until 
2014.  
Many factors beyond those featured in these illustrative  simulations  will likely  influence  
the Committee’s  decisions  regarding  the timing and pace of policy firming.  Moreover,  the 
simulations  presented  here focus on changes in the federal funds rate target, taking the 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 6 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   trajectory  of SOMA holdings of longer‐term securities  as given.  The  FOMC could also 
adjust the overall stance of policy through  changes in those holdings,  and such changes—
as well as the stimulus currently  being provided  by previous asset purchases—would  
presumably  have implications  for the appropriate  setting of the funds rate.   
 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 7 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
last round generally outweighs the upward revision to the staff’s inflation projection.5  
With the exception of the first-difference rule—w hich responds to the staff’s forecast of a 
narrowing output gap and a slightly higher infl ation profile without regard for the still-
elevated level of slack—all unconstrained prescr iptions take values th at are at or below 
the effective lower bound.  
                                                 
5 The funds rate prescriptions for the third quarter of 2011 from the Taylor (1993) rule—which 
places relatively more weight on the prior four-quarter co re inflation rate—and from the first-difference rule 
have marginally increased as a result of the s lightly higher staff projection for inflation. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 8 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  Under either Alte rnative A or B, the Committee would state 
that it will complete, by the end of the curr ent quarter, the intended $600 billion increase 
in securities holdings that it first announced in November.  The draft statement for 
Alternative B also notes that the Committee will review the size and composition of its 
securities holdings and that it is prepared to adjust those holdings as needed.  In contrast, 
Alternative A indicates that the Committee is prepared to expand its purchases and 
extend them beyond the current quarter if necessary.  Under Alternative C, the 
Committee would limit the increase in its hold ings to $450 billion; asset purchases for 
purposes other than reinvesting principa l payments would stop soon after the 
Committee’s April meeting.  Moreover, Alternat ive C signals that the Committee is likely 
to end the reinvestment of pr incipal payments from its securities holdings in the near 
future.  Each of the alternatives would main tain the existing target range for the federal 
funds rate for the coming intermeeting pe riod.  Under Alternative B, the Committee 
would continue to indicate that it anticipates  keeping the funds rate at its effective lower 
bound for an extended period.  Alternative A would provide more explicit forward 
guidance by stating that the Committee now  expects that economic conditions will 
warrant exceptionally low leve ls of the funds rate at l east through mid-2012.  Alternative 
C would signal that the Committee anticipates ra ising its target for the federal funds rate 
sooner than markets currently expect. 
The draft statement for Alternative B upda tes the assessment of current economic 
conditions by noting that information receiv ed over the intermeeting period “indicates 
that the economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace and overall labor market 
conditions are improving gradually.”  The st atement for Alternative B recognizes that 
rising prices of oil and other commodities ar e boosting inflation, but  it also notes that 
“measures of underlying inflation are still subdued.”  Alternative B (and Alternative C) 
offers the Committee a choice of stating that  longer-term inflation expectations “have 
remained stable” or that they “have remained  generally stable.”  Alternative B reiterates 
the observations that the unemployment rate is elevated and that underlying inflation is somewhat low, relative to mandate-consistent le vels. In light of this assessment of current 
conditions and the outlook, the FOMC would ma intain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal and state that it “will complete  purchases of $600 billion of longer-term 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 9 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   Treasury securities by the end of  the current quarter.”  With the intended expansion of the 
securities portfolio announced in Novemb er nearing completion, Alternative B would 
drop language indicating that the Committee will regularly review “the pace of its 
securities purchases and th e overall size of the asset pur chase program.” Instead, the 
Committee would say that it will regularly review “the size and composition of its 
securities holdings,” and that it “is prepared to adjust those holdings as needed to best 
foster maximum employment and price stability .”  That wording encompasses a range of 
possibilities:  additional purchases, an end to reinvestment of principal payments, outright 
sales, and adjustments in the composition of the SOMA portfolio with no change in its 
size.   
Compared with Alternative B, the draft statement for Alternative C presents a 
more upbeat view of current and prospectiv e economic conditions, stating that incoming 
information “indicates that the economic rec overy is on a firm footing.”  Moreover, 
Alternative C notes that the unemployment rate and underlying inflation “have moved somewhat closer” to mandate-consistent levels.  The statement for Alternative C, like that 
for Alternative B, recognizes that rising pr ices of oil and other commodities are boosting 
inflation while noting that m easures of underlying infla tion are still subdued.  The 
Committee could choose whether to characterize  longer-term inflati on expectations as 
“stable” or “generally stable.”  Compared  to the other alternatives, Alternative C 
indicates greater concern about  inflation risks by emphasizing the importance of stable 
longer-term inflation expecta tions for the inflation outlook.  Accordingly, Alternative C 
would end securities purchases quickly to li mit the increase in SO MA holdings to $450 
billion.
1  The statement for Alternative C would indicate that the Committee will 
maintain its reinvestment policy “for now” and that it “will regularly review its 
reinvestment policy and the level of its s ecurities holdings.”  Th ese words would signal 
that reinvestment is likely to end soon and that asset sales might follow.  Finally, the 
Committee would say that it anticipates that  economic conditions are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate “for some time” rather than for “an extended period.”  Taken as a whole, Altern ative C would indicate that the first steps 
toward removing policy accommodation and normalizing the balance sheet are likely to 
come soon and that further steps could follow in short order. 
                                                 
1 The Desk has been purchasing longer-term Treasury securities at  a pace that increases SOMA 
securities holdings by about $80 billion per month.  When the Committee meets on April 26–27, the 
cumulative increase since November will be about $430 billion.  Instructing the Desk to increase holdings 
by $450 billion would allow it to spread the remaining purchases over a week or two to give dealers and 
other participants in the Treasury market some time to adjust to the policy surprise. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 10 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   The Committee’s assessmen t of economic conditions under Alternative A would 
note that the recovery is proceeding at a mode rate pace, but would highlight that growth 
recently has been slower than anticipated and point to higher energy prices as a possible 
cause.  The draft statement for Alternative A also indicates that ove rall conditions in the 
labor market “are improving only gradually.”  Alternative A acknowledges the pickup in 
inflation in recent months, but emphasizes th at longer-term inflation expectations have 
remained stable and that measures of underlying inflation are still subdued.  While indicating that the Committee continues to antic ipate a gradual return to higher levels of 
resource utilization in a context of price stab ility, the statement for Alternative A notes an 
increase in downside risks to the outlook for growth.  Accordingly, the Committee would not only say that it “will complete” purchas es of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury 
securities by the end of the current quarter, it also would indicate th at it “is prepared to 
expand and extend the purchase program if n eeded” to best foster its objectives.  
Alternative A also contains more explicit forward guidance for the funds rate than the 
other alternatives, noting th at the Committee anticipates that economic conditions “are 
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate at least through mid-
2012.”  Taken together, the language about secu rities purchases and about the funds rate 
in this alternative would signal that the Co mmittee is in no hurry to begin reducing policy 
accommodation, and that its next move could be an easing.  
The next two pages contain a table that s hows key elements of the alternatives.  
The table is followed by complete draft stat ements, then by a summary of the arguments 
for each alternative.   
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 11 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   Table 1:  Overview of Alternatives for the April 27 FOMC Statement 
Key 
Components March 
Statement April Alternatives 
A B  C 
Economic Activity  
Economic 
Recovery is on a firmer footing proceeding at a moderate pace, albeit more slowly than had 
been anticipated  proceeding at a 
moderate pace on a firm footing 
Labor  
Market conditions appear to be improving 
gradually conditions are 
improving only 
gradually conditions are 
improving 
gradually conditions are improving 
unemployment rate 
remains elevated unemployment rate remains elevated unemployment rate 
has moved somewhat 
closer to mandate-
consistent levels 
Household Spending continues to expand continues to expand; increased energy costs may be weighing on 
consumer purchases continues to expand 
Inflation 
Recent 
Developments commodity prices have risen significantly since 
summer; sharp run-
up in oil prices in recent weeks commodity prices have risen significantly since last summer;  
further increase in oil prices since March 
expectations have 
remained stable  while inflation has 
picked up in recent 
months, expectations 
have remained stable inflation has picked up in recent months, but 
expectations have rema ined [generally] stable
measures of underlying inflation 
have been subdued, 
continue to be somewhat low measures of underlying inflation are still 
subdued, continue to be somewhat low 
relative to mandate-consistent levels measures of underlying inflation are still subdued, have moved 
somewhat closer to 
mandate-consistent 
levels 
commodity prices are putting upward 
pressure on inflation; effects 
expected to be 
transitory commodity prices are putting upward 
pressure on inflation;  
effects expected to be transitory commodity prices are 
boosting overall 
inflation; expected to be transitory so long as 
longer-run expectations 
remain stable 
Outlook  
Outlook anticipate gradual 
return to higher 
resource utilization 
with price stability  although anticipate 
gradual return to 
higher resource 
utilization with price stability, downside 
risks to outlook for 
growth have increased anticipate gradual return to higher resource 
utilization with price stability 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 12 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   Table 1:  Overview of Alternatives for the April 27 FOMC Statement 
(continued ) 
Key 
Components March 
Statement April Alternatives 
A B  C 
Federal Funds Rate Target Range 
Intermeeting 
Period 0 to ¼ percent 0 to ¼ percent 
Forward Guidance  exceptionally low levels for an extended period exceptionally low levels at least through mid-2012 exceptionally low levels for an extended period exceptionally low levels for some time 
SOMA Portfolio Policy 
Approach  intends to purchase 
$600 billion of 
Treasuries by end of 
2011:Q2  will complete purchases of $600 billion of 
Treasuries by end of current quarter purchases to date 
promote appropriate 
progress toward 
mandate; complete 
only $450 billion of 
the intended $600 
billion increase in 
securities holdings 
maintain 
reinvestment policy  maintain reinvestment policy for now, maintain 
reinvestment policy 
Future Policy Action  
Asset Purchases / 
Holdings will regularly 
review pace and size 
of purchases and 
adjust as needed  prepared to expand 
and extend 
purchases if needed will regularly review 
size and composition 
of holdings; 
prepared to adjust 
holdings as needed will regularly review 
reinvestment policy 
and level of holdings; 
will make adjustments 
as needed 
Overall will monitor 
economic outlook 
and employ policy 
tools as necessary to 
support the recovery 
and to help ensure  
that inflation, over 
time, is consistent 
with mandate will monitor economic outlook and employ policy tools as 
necessary to support the recovery and to help ensure that  inflation, 
over time, is consistent with mandate 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 13 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   MARCH FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received since the Federal Open  Market Committee met in January suggests 
that the economic recovery is on a firmer footing, and overall conditions in the labor 
market appear to be improvi ng gradually.  Household sp ending and business spending on 
equipment and software continue to expand.  However, investment in nonresidential 
structures is still weak, and the housing sector continues to be depressed.  Commodity prices have risen significantly since the summer, and concerns about global supplies of crude oil have contributed to a sharp run-up in oil prices in recent weeks.  Nonetheless, longer-term inflation expectations have re mained stable, and measures of underlying 
inflation have been subdued. 
 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  Currently, the unemployme nt rate remains elevated, and measures of 
underlying inflation continue to be somewhat  low, relative to levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent, over the longer run, w ith its dual mandate.  The recent increases in 
the prices of energy and other commoditi es are currently putting upward pressure on 
inflation.  The Committee expects these effects to be transitory, but it will pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations.  The Committee continues to anticipate a gradual return to higher levels  of resource utilization in a context of price 
stability.  
  
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decided today to continue 
expanding its holdings of securities as annou nced in November.  In particular, the 
Committee is maintaining its existing policy of  reinvesting principal payments from its 
securities holdings and intends to purchase $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of the second quarter of 2011.  The Committee will regularly review the pace of its securities purchases and the overall size of the asset-purchase program in light of incoming information and will adjust the progr am as needed to best foster maximum 
employment and price stability. 
 
4. The Committee will maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource 
utilization, subdued inflation tre nds, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period.   
 
5. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary to support the economic r ecovery and to help 
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent  with its mandate. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 14 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   APRIL FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January  March  
suggests that the economic recovery is on a firmer footing  proceeding at a moderate pace, 
albeit somewhat more slowly than had been anticipated , and that overall conditions in 
the labor market appear to be  are improving only gradually.  Household spending and 
business investment in equipment a nd software continue to expand, but increased energy 
costs may be weighing on consumer purchases of non-energy goods and services .  
However  Investment in nonresidential structur es is still weak, and the housing sector 
continues to be depressed.  Commodity pr ices have risen significantly since the  last 
summer, and concerns about global supplies of crude oil have contributed to a sharp run -up 
further increase  in oil prices in recent weeks  since the Committee met in March . 
Nonetheless,  While inflation has picked up in recent months,  longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable and measures of underlying inflation have been  are still  
subdued. 
 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  Currently,  The unemployment rate remains elevated, and measures of 
underlying inflation continue to be somewhat  low, relative to levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent, over the longer run, with its dual mandate.  The recen t Increases in 
the prices of energy and other commodities are currently  putting upward pressure on 
inflation.  The Committee expects these effects to be transitory, but it will pay close 
attention to the evolution of infl ation and inflation expectations.  Although  the Committee 
continues to anticipate a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability , recent developments have increased the downside risks to the outlook 
for economic growth .  
  
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decided today to continue 
expanding its holdings of securities as annou nced in November.  In particular, the 
Committee is maintaining its existing policy of  reinvesting principal payments from its 
securities holdings and intends  will complete  to purchase s of $600 billion of longer-term 
Treasury securities by the end of the second  current  quarter of 2011 .  The Committee will 
regularly review the pace of its securities purchases and the overall size of the asset -
purchase program in light of incoming information and will adjust  is prepared to expand 
and extend the purchase program  the program as  if needed to best foster maximum 
employment and price stability. 
 
4. The Committee will maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to  currently  anticipate s that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, a nd stable inflation expectations, are likely to 
warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period  at least 
through mid-2012 .   
 
5. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary to support the economic r ecovery and to help 
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 15 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   APRIL FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January  March  
suggests  indicates  that the economic recovery is on a firmer footing  proceeding at a 
moderate pace  and overall conditions in the labor market appear to be  are improving 
gradually.  Household spe nding and business investment in equipment and software 
continue to expand.  However, investment in  nonresidential structures is still weak, and the 
housing sector continues to be depressed.  Comm odity prices have risen significantly since 
the last summer, and concerns about global supplie s of crude oil have contributed to a 
sharp run -up further increase  in oil prices in recent weeks  since the Committee met in 
March .  Nonetheless,  Inflation has picked up in recent months, but  longer-term 
inflation expectations have remained [generally ] stable and measures of underlying 
inflation have been  are still  subdued.  
 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  Currently,  The unemployment rate remains elevated, and measures of 
underlying inflation continue to be somewhat  low, relative to levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent, over the longer r un, with its dual mandate.  The recent  Increases in 
the prices of energy and other commodities are currently  putting upward pressure on 
inflation.  The Committee expects these effects to be transitory, but it will pay close 
attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations.  The Committee continues 
to anticipate a gradual return to higher levels  of resource utilization in a context of price 
stability.   
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decided today to continue 
expanding its holdings of securities as annou nced in November.  In particular, the 
Committee is maintaining its existing policy of  reinvesting principal payments from its 
securities holdings and intends to
 will complete  purchase s of $600 billion of longer-term 
Treasury securities by the end of the second  current  quarter of 2011 .  The Committee will 
regularly review the pace  size and composition  of its securities purchases  holdings  and the 
overall size of the asset -purchase program  in light of incoming information and will adjust 
the program  is prepared to adjust those holdings  as needed to best foster maximum 
employment and price stability.   
4. The Committee will maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource 
utilization, subdued inflation tre nds, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period.   
 
5. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary to support the economic r ecovery and to help 
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent  with its mandate. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 16 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   APRIL FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January  March  
suggests  indicates  that the economic recovery is on a firmer  footing and overall conditions 
in the labor market appear to be  are improving gradually .  Household spending and 
business investment in equipment and software continue to expand.  However, investment 
in nonresidential structures is still weak, and the housing sector continues to be depressed.   
Commodity prices have risen significantly since the summer, and concerns about global 
supplies of crude oil have contributed to a sharp run -up further increase  in oil prices in 
recent weeks  since the Committee met in March .  Nonetheless,  Inflation has picked up 
in recent months, but  longer-term inflation expectations have remained [generally ] stable 
and measures of underlying inflation have been  are still  subdued.   
 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  Currently,  The unemployment rate remains elevated  and measures of 
underlying inflation continue to be somewhat low, relative  have moved somewhat closer  
to levels that the Committee judges to be c onsistent, over the longer run, with its dual 
mandate.  However,  The recent  increases in the prices of en ergy and other commodities are 
currently putting upward pr essure on  are boosting overall  inflation.  The Committee 
expects these effects to be transitory so long as longer-term inflation expectations 
remain stable , but and it will pay close attention to the e volution of inflation and inflation 
expectations.  The Committee continues to antic ipate a gradual return to higher levels of 
resource utilization in a context of price stability.  
  
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its m andate  In light of incoming information, the 
Committee judges that the increase in its ho ldings of longer-term securities since 
November is sufficient to promote appropriate progress toward maximum 
employment and price stability.  Accordingly , the Committee decided today to continue 
expanding  complete only $450 billion of the intended $600 billion increase in  its 
holdings of securities as  announced in November.  In particular  For now , the Committee is 
maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities holdings and intends to purchase $600 billion of longer
-term Treasury securities by the end 
of the second quarter of 2011 .  The Committee  will regularly review the pace of its 
securities purchases and the overall size of the a sset-purchase program needed  its 
reinvestment policy and the level of its securities holdings  in light of incoming 
information and will adjust the program  make adjustments  as needed to best foster 
maximum employment and price stability.  
4. The Committee will maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to
 anticipate s that economic conditions, including low rates of resource 
utilization, subdued inflation tre nds, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federa l funds rate for an extended period  some time .   
 
5. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary to support the economic r ecovery and to help 
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent  with its mandate. 
  
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 17 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
If policymakers’ view of the medium-ter m outlook for real activity and inflation 
has not changed appreciably since the Ma rch meeting, they may judge that it is 
appropriate to complete the intended $600 b illion increase in holdings of longer-term 
securities.  The unemployment rate has co me down, but it remains high relative to 
participants’ projections of the longer-run rate of unemployment.  While measures of 
underlying inflation have moved up, reversing a small part of their decline since mid-
2008, policymakers may still se e underlying inflation as unlikely to ex ceed mandate-
consistent levels, given that l onger-term inflation expectations  remain within their recent 
ranges.  Accordingly, they might choose to issue a statemen t along the lines of 
Alternative B to convey their judgment that the economy is likely to recover at an 
acceptable pace and that inflation and empl oyment are likely to converge toward 
mandate-consistent levels over time, and to si gnal that they do not expect to begin 
removing policy accommodation in the near term. 
The Committee may have interpreted the incoming information on spending, 
production, and labor markets as suggesting th at the economic recovery is progressing 
broadly in line with expectations.  While GDP  growth slowed appreciably during the first 
quarter of this year, much of the slowing appears to have been caused by temporary 
factors—including a sharp drop in governme nt purchases—that are unlikely to be 
repeated.  Moreover, policymakers, like the staff, may think that the run-up in energy 
prices in recent months will slow the rise  in consumer spending only temporarily, and 
that growth of real personal consumpti on expenditures will pick up as employment 
continues to expand and as ener gy prices level out.  And while  fiscal policy may be more 
restrictive in coming years than previously an ticipated, the foreign exchange value of the 
dollar has declined somewhat further over the intermeeting period and the outlook for 
economic activity abroad remains positive.     
Regarding inflation, although increases in the prices of energy and other 
commodities are boosting headline inflation, measur es of underlying inflation trends have 
risen much less and remain below levels the Committee considers consistent with its longer-term objectives.  Although the global oil market remain s volatile, prices in oil 
futures markets continue to suggest that market participants expect oil prices to stabilize.  
In addition, wage gains are modest and unit labor costs have changed little in recent quarters.  Hence, the Committee may continue to anticipate that the run-up in commodity 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 18 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   prices will not lead to a large or persistent  increase in inflation.  Policymakers may see 
some risk that recent increases in the prices  of oil and other commodities could not only 
push near-term inflation higher but also lead to a rise in longer-run in flation expectations.  
However, they may find it reassuring that bo th survey and market-based measures of 
longer-term inflation expecta tions have remained within the ranges observed in recent 
years.  If the Committee judges that the medium-term outlook for real activity and 
inflation has not changed significantly, it ma y decide that completing the $600 billion 
securities purchase program by mid-year but not extending it, as in Alternative B, 
remains appropriate to support th e recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is 
at a levels consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate.  
Recent economic developments may have heightened policymakers’ concerns 
about downside risks to the pace and durability of the recovery and about upside risks to 
inflation.  In particular, polit ical unrest in the Middle Ea st and North Africa and the 
resulting upward pressure on oil prices may have increased the like lihood of an adverse 
shock to real incomes and to household and business confidence, a nd thus to private 
domestic final demand.  In addition, policym akers may see a continuing risk of an 
adverse financial shock originating in markets for sovereign debt.  At the same time, they 
may worry that further gains in oil and comm odity prices, and the resulting increase in 
consumer price inflation, could result in a persistent increase in expected inflation—
particularly if the Federal Reserve is perc eived to be unduly focused on risks to economic 
growth and employment.   Given these countervailing concerns, the Committee may 
judge it appropriate to wait for additional info rmation before shifting toward either tighter 
or easier monetary policy.  More broadly, pol icymakers may have a high bar for changing 
the securities purchase program at this time because they see fine tuning as undesirable or 
because they want to minimize financial market  volatility.  In particular, they may judge 
that either suddenly disconti nuing the current program or une xpectedly signaling that an 
extension may be necessary to foster conti nued recovery would be unsettling to financial 
markets, particularly at a time of heightened  uncertainty about the economic outlook.      
The Desk’s recent survey of primary d ealers revealed that all expect the 
Committee to decide, during its April meeti ng, to complete $600 billion of securities 
purchases.  The dealers also expect the Committee to update the statement’s language 
about economic conditions but to make no other meaningful changes; in particular, they 
do not expect an end to rei nvestment or a change in th e “extended period” language.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 19 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   Accordingly, a statement along the lines of Alternative B would lik ely result in little 
change in bond yields, equity  prices, or the foreign exch ange value of the dollar.  
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
   Policymakers may see the slower GDP growth in the first quarter of this year as 
resulting largely or entirely from temporary f actors.  In addition, th ey may see the sizable 
decline in the unemployment rate and brisk gr owth in manufacturing production in recent 
months, along with the small rise in underlying inflation trends, as indica ting that the 
recovery is stronger than the spending data suggest and that there is less slack than the 
staff estimates.  If so, they may conclude that bringing securities purchases to a quick 
close and signaling an earlier-than-expected  start to reducing po licy accommodation, as 
in Alternative C, is appropriate.    
Although the recent data on economic activity have been somewhat mixed, 
policymakers may judge that the fundame ntals supporting the expansion, including 
accommodative financial condi tions, rising business sentiment, and strong growth 
abroad,  remain in place and are likely to lead  to an acceleration in economic activity this 
year.  Indeed, some policymakers may see a sizable probability that  real activity will 
rebound strongly when the temporary factors that have held back spending early this year 
recede, and will then continue to accelerate,  as in the “Stronger Recovery” alternative 
simulation presented in Book A of the Tealbook .  In that scenario, the dynamics of a 
mutually reinforcing pickup in hiring, stronger spending, and improved credit conditions 
generate an appreciably str onger recovery, and higher inflat ion, than in the baseline 
forecast.  Moreover, some policymakers may see less slack in the economy than the 
unemployment rate might suggest, as in the “L ower Potential” alte rnative simulation.  
Even though output growth is slower in that  scenario than in the baseline forecast, 
inflation is noticeably higher, in part because the public believes that policymakers will 
be slow to recognize the true state of s upply-side conditions.  To the extent that 
policymakers assign a high probability to such sc enarios, they may judge it appropriate to 
begin reducing policy accommodation fairly soon. 
For now, both survey and market-based  measures suggest that longer-term 
inflation expectations are reasonably well anch ored despite the steep run-up in prices of 
oil and other commodities.  However, the Committee may be concerned that such 
measures are close to the upper ends of the ranges in which they have moved in recent 
years, and policymakers may see a significant risk that inflation expectations could 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 20 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   increase noticeably as real activity accelerates, particularly if comm odity prices continue 
to rise and if inflation pressures abroad push core import prices up further.  In light of 
such risks, participants may view an ear lier-than-expected scaling back of policy 
accommodation as necessary to keep longer-term  inflation expectations well anchored.  
In addition, some participants may find a reduction in policy accommodation attractive 
because they see evidence of excessive risk-t aking and leverage in some parts of the 
financial system and worry that such excesses could again contri bute to financial 
instability.2  Accordingly, the Committee may want to limit the increase in its securities 
holdings to $450 billion, and to modify the stat ement to signal that an  early initiation of 
steps to tighten policy and normalize the balance sheet is likely, as in Alternative C.   
As noted earlier, the Desk’s survey of primary dealers suggests that market 
participants now antic ipate the Committee to announce that it will complete the intended 
$600 billion expansion of its securities holdi ngs and to retain th e “extended period” 
language.  A statement that reduces the size of the asset purchase program, drops the 
“extended period” language, and makes other ch anges to the statement along the lines of 
Alternative C, would consequent ly be a significant surprise to investors.  As a result, 
longer-term interest rates would likely increase, although the Committee’s move to 
tighten policy sooner than investors currently anticipate might lead to some reduction in 
inflation compensation.  Stock prices would likely decline and the foreign exchange value of the dollar woul d probably increase.  
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
Policymakers may see the information that has become available since mid-March 
as indicating that the outlook for growth is le ss favorable than they had thought, and that 
downside risks to the pace of the recovery have  increased.  If so, they  may want to signal 
that they are prepared to provide additi onal policy accommodation if it is needed to 
promote outcomes consistent with the FOMC’s  dual mandate; in particular, they might 
state that they are prepared to expand asse t purchases and extend them beyond June, as in 
Alternative A.  The Committee might also wish to provide more explicit forward 
guidance about the likely durati on of the period of exceptiona lly low federal funds rates 
to help keep longer-term rates from rising rapidly as the recovery progresses. 
                                                 
2 For background on risk-taking and leverage, see the memos on “Asset Valuations” and 
“Indicators of Trends in Dealer-Intermediated Financing and Leverage” that were sent to the Committee on 
April 15, 2011.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 21 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   The Committee may read the recent data as suggesting that the recovery will not 
be as strong as seemed likely at the time of  the March meeting.  Indeed, the slowdown in 
growth of real private final demand in the fi rst quarter of this y ear may have raised 
concerns not only about the st rength of the recovery but also about its durability.  
Moreover, the run-up in energy costs may weigh on household confidence and spending, 
and also reduce equity prices and firms’ w illingness to hire, as in the “Weaker Recovery” 
alternative simulation.  In addition, fiscal pol icy appears likely to be somewhat tighter 
than previously thought, and spending by st ate and local governments may be weaker.  
With longer-term inflation expectations  remaining reasonably well anchored, 
policymakers may want to signal that the door is open to expa nding and extending the 
asset purchase program if growth does not pick up as expected.  Even if they continue to 
see a gradual return to higher levels of res ource utilization in a context of price stability 
as the most likely outcome, policymakers ma y be inclined to adopt a statement along the 
lines of Alternative A if they see substant ial downside risks to growth and, with short-
term rates at their effective lower bound, woul d want to resume asset purchases promptly 
if growth does not pick up.   
Alternatively, policymakers may expect progress toward their longer-run 
objectives to be disappointingly slow, even under their modal forecasts, and judge that Alternative A appropriately re cognizes the likely need for more policy stimulus before 
long.  Though the unemployment rate has come down noticeably, other measures of labor 
utilization, including the empl oyment-to-population ratio, have  improved only gradually.  
The optimal control simulations presented in the “Monetary Policy Strategies” section of 
the Tealbook call for near-term policy easing to speed progress toward the Committee’s 
objectives.  Policymakers may interpret these re sults as indicating that additional stimulus 
could help contribute to highe r levels of employment without  allowing an excessive rise 
in inflation.  They also may judge that the ri sks associated with fu rther expansion of the 
balance sheet are low relative to the benefits .  In particular, they may have greater 
confidence that the Committee’s tools for draining reserves will be effective, in light of the primary dealers’ assessment (as indicated in their responses to the Desk’s most recent 
survey) that the Federal Reserve could drain up to $500 billion of exce ss reserves in just 
six weeks using reverse repurch ase and term deposit operation s.  Moreover, policymakers 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 22 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   may read the Treasury’s success in selling MB S as indicating that the Committee will be 
able to sell such securities without  adversely affecting market functioning.3      
  The Committee might also want to co mmunicate more explicitly its conditional 
expectation for the path of th e federal funds rate.  By sta ting that it anticipates that 
economic conditions, including low rates of re source utilization, subdued inflation trends, 
and stable inflation expectat ions, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the 
federal funds rate at least through mid-2012, as in Alternative A, the Committee could 
help limit investor uncertainty and reduce te rm premiums, and so lower intermediate and 
longer-term Treasury yields, thereby pr oviding support for aggregate demand.   
An announcement indicating that the Committee is open to expanding and 
extending the asset purchase pr ogram would surprise market  participants.  Longer-term 
yields could decline, although th is effect would likely be li mited if investors perceived 
the statement as adding to th e upside risks to inflation.  Equity prices would probably 
rise, and the foreign exchange valu e of the dollar would likely decline.  
                                                 
3 For further information, see the memo titled “Treasury Sales of Mortgage-Backed Securities” 
that was sent to the Committee on April 21, 2011. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 23 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE 
The staff has prepared two scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy Alterna tives A, B, and C (though the language in the statements 
differs, Alternatives A and B have the same balance sheet projection) .  Projections under 
each scenario are based on assumptions about  various components of  the balance sheet.4  
Details of these assumptions, as well as pr ojections for each major component of the 
balance sheet, can be found in Explanatory Note C.  
 
For the scenario that corr esponds to Alternatives A and B, we assume that the 
FOMC completes the intended expansion of its  holdings of longer-t erm securities of $600 
billion by the end of the second quarter of 2011.  The proceeds from principal repayments 
from Treasury securities and agency securities  continue to be rei nvested in Treasury 
securities until December 2011.  Under these assumptions, the size of the balance sheet 
reaches about $2.9 trillion by the end of the second quarter and remains at about that 
level until the end of the year.  In December, all prin cipal paydowns of securities are 
assumed to roll off the portfolio, and the balance sheet begins to contract.  In March 
2013, six months after the assumed rise in th e target federal funds rate, the Committee 
begins to sell its remaining holdings of agency  MBS and agency debt securities at a pace 
that reduces the amount of these securities in the portfolio to zero in  five years—that is, 
                                                 
4 All scenarios assume the same path for the federal funds rate. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 24 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   by the end of the first quarter of 2018.5, 6  This action also reduces the size of the balance 
sheet between 2013 and 2015, though not in a notic eable way as the pace of redemptions 
is slowing as sales take place.      
After reserve balances have reached th e assumed $25 billion floor and the U.S. 
Treasury’s Supplementary Financing Account  (SFA) has been wound down, the balance 
sheet begins to expand, with increases in holdings of Treasury securities primarily 
matching the growth of Federal Reserve capital and notes in circulation.7  The balance 
sheet reaches a size of nearly  $2 trillion by the end of 2020.8  
Under Alternative C, the purchases of l onger-term Treasury securities are reduced 
to $450 billion and are assumed to be comp leted shortly after the upcoming meeting.  
Additionally, all principal paydow ns of securities are allowe d to roll off the portfolio 
beginning in July 2011, as opposed to Decem ber 2011, the start date assumed in 
Alternatives A and B.  Sales of agency securities have the same time frame and pace as in 
Alternatives A and B.  The size of the ba lance sheet peaks around $2.7 trillion when the 
purchase program ends.     
Compared with the March Tealbook baseline projection, total assets in 
Alternatives A and B are roughly at the same  level until December 2011.  With the earlier 
redemption date in this Tealbook, total assets begin to decline in December 2011, and the 
current projection lies below the March T ealbook projection through 2015.  From 2016 
and onward, however, when the balance sheet has normalized, the paths for total assets 
lie a bit above the path in the March T ealbook, reflecting an upward revision in the 
projection of notes in circulation that is matc hed by an increase in the size of the SOMA 
                                                 
5 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the volume of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five year period is minimal. 
6 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurchase agreements and the Term Deposit 
Facility) are not used in any of the scenarios presented.  Us e of these tools would result in a shift in the 
composition of Federal Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corresponding increase in 
term reverse repurchase agreements or term deposits—but would not produce an overall change in the size 
of the balance sheet.  
7 In the near term, the SFA balance will remain at $5 billion as the level of public debt outstanding 
that is subject to the federal debt limit approaches th e statutory debt ceiling. We assume that once the debt 
ceiling is raised, the SFA is increased back to $200 billion by September 2011.   
8 The composition of Federal Reserve assets in these projections differs notably at times from 
historical patterns.  Prior to August 2007, U.S. Tr easury securities made up 100 percent of the domestic 
securities portfolio.  By contrast, Treasury securitie s were around 56 percent of the domestic securities 
portfolio at the end of March 2011.  By the end of  the first quarter of 2018, Treasury securities are 
forecasted to account for 100 percent of the dom estic securities portfolio under all scenarios. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 25 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   portfolio.  On the liability side of the balance sheet, reserve balances are lower than in the 
previous Tealbook in the near term, largely re flecting the earlier start of rolling securities 
off the portfolio.     
After expanding in 2011, on net, the mone tary base is projected to contract 
through 2015 in Alternatives A and B, reflecting the decline in Fe deral Reserve assets 
and the associated downward trend in reserve balances.  Alternative C has the monetary 
base expand slightly in 2015 as the balance sheet begins to expand. 
 Jan-11 23.3 23.3 23.3
Feb-11 57.6 57.6 57.6
Mar-11 99.1 99.1 103.4
Apr-11 81.5 83.4 70.9
May-11 56.6 38.9 44.4
Jun-11 31.7 -5.4 35.8
Jul-11 12.8 -13.9 13.0
Aug-11 -20.8 -35.4 -16.4
Sep-11 -49.4 -62.1 -35.7
Oct-11 -19.4 -29.2 -13.2
Nov-11 5.9 -3.7 4.6
Dec-11 -4.1 -6.2 2.7
2011 Q1 37.0 37.0 37.52011 Q2 75.4 66.7 69.92011 Q3 7.1 -16.1 9.32011 Q4 -18.9 -28.7 -12.92012 Q1 -6.0 -6.6 0.62012 Q2 -12.7 -13.8 -1.4
2011 25.9 13.5 27.32012 -11.9 -12.5 -4.12013 -18.0 -18.8 -17.52014 -20.3 -19.8 -20.2
2015 -7.3 3.9 -21.6
Note: Not seasonally adjusted.Monthly
Quarterly
Annual - Q4 to Q4 Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
DateAlternatives A 
and BAlternative CMemo : 
March 
Tealbook
Percent, annual rate
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 26 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial debt is projected to  expand at an annual rate of about  
5¼ percent in the second quarter of this y ear, driven by a rapid expansion in federal 
government debt and a modest rise in priv ate nonfinancial debt.  Although federal 
government debt is expected to reach its statutory limit this quarter, the staff forecast 
assumes that the limit will be raised in a tim ely manner.  Domestic nonfinancial debt is 
expected to continue to increase at an a nnual rate of 5¼ percent,  on average, over the 
next two years, as a slightly slower expans ion of federal debt is offset by a gradual 
acceleration of private nonfinancial debt.  Despite low mortgage rates, home mortgage 
debt is projected to contract  further in 2011 and to be about flat in 2012, as house prices 
are forecasted to continue their decline, hous ing demand is projected to remain weak, and 
lending standards are expected to  ease only gradually.  Consum er credit is projected to 
post a small gain this quarter and then to gradually accelerate in coming quarters, driven 
by rising spending on consumer durables.  Nonf inancial business debt is expected to 
increase at a moderate pace over the forecas t period, reflecting the ongoing expansion of 
capital expenditures. 
Commercial bank credit is projected to edge down further in the current quarter, 
as a continued decline in loans is not quite offset by a rise in s ecurities holdings.  Over 
the remainder of the year, the expansion in ba nk credit is expected to remain constrained 
by ongoing balance sheet pressures, still-stri ngent lending standards, and a lack of 
demand from high-quality borrowers for certain  types of loans.  In 2012, however, bank 
credit is projected to accelerate as the e ffects of these factors gradually abate.  
Commercial and industrial loan s are projected to increase steadily through the forecast 
period as a result of continued gains in invest ment outlays and a further gradual easing of 
banks’ lending standards and terms.  Commer cial real estate loans are expected to 
contract throughout the forecast period, reflectin g persistently weak market fundamentals 
and elevated charge-offs, but the rate of dec line is anticipated to lessen over time.  
Residential real estate lo ans on banks’ books are projec ted to decline through 2011 but 
expand at a modest pace during 2012, with the gains driven by a projected gradual 
recovery in housing activity and declines in charge-offs.  Consumer loans are also 
projected to contract during the first half of 2011 and then  to increase modestly during 
the remainder of 2011 and 2012, supported by a pickup in consumer spending on durable goods and reduced losses in credit card portf olios.  Banks’ securities holdings are 
forecasted to expand at a moderate pace over 2011 and 2012. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 27 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
    
The growth rate of M2 is projec ted to edge down over 2011 and 2012.  The 
deceleration in M2 is based on the view that households will continue to shift their 
portfolios toward higher-yielding investment s outside of M2 throughout this year and 
into the first half of next year as risks to  the economic outlook ease.  M2 expands a bit 
faster in the second half of 2012 as this portfolio reallocation is completed, but growth in M2 is tempered by a rise in the opportunity cost of money associated  with the projected 
firming of monetary policy at  that time.  Within M2, small time deposits and retail money 
market funds are projected to decline at a diminishing rate through 2012, while the rise in 
liquid deposits is expected to moderate fr om the robust pace seen over 2009 and 2010.  
Currency is expected to expand at around its  long-run average rate over the forecast 
period. 
 Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast*
Sep-10 6.6
Oct-10 5.5
Nov-10 5.1
Dec-10 4.0
Jan-11 2.7
Feb-11 7.4
Mar-11 3.0
Apr-11 3.2
May-11 3.2
Jun-11 2.5
Jul-11 2.5
Aug-11 1.9
Sep-11 1.9
Quarterly Growth Rates
2010 Q3 4.5
2010 Q4 5.6
2011 Q1 4.4
2011 Q2 3.6
2011 Q3 2.4
Annual Growth Rates
2009 5.0
2010 3.2
2011 3.0
2012 2.8M2 Growth Rates
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate)
* This forecast is consistent with nominal GDP and interest rates in the Tealbook 
forecast.  Actual data thro ugh March 2011; projections thereafter.
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 28 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   DIRECTIVE  
The March directive appears below.  Drafts for an April directiv e corresponding 
to each of the three policy alte rnatives appear on subsequent pages.  The Directives for 
Alternatives A and B would instruct the Desk to continue pu rchasing longer-term 
Treasury securities to implement the inte nded $600 billion incr ease in the SOMA’s 
securities holdings by the end of June 2011 while also continuing the cu rrent policy of 
reinvesting principal payments on SOMA securities.  The directive for Alternative C calls 
for an increase in the SOMA’s holdings to taling $450 billion, a nd for continuing the 
current policy of reinvest ing principal payments. 
 
March 2011 FOMC Directive  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6 trillion by the end of June 2011.  The Comm ittee also directs the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 29 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   April 2011 FOMC Directive — Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6 trillion by the end of June 2011.  The Comm ittee also directs the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 30 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   April 2011 FOMC Directive — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6 trillion by the end of June 2011.  The Comm ittee also directs the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 31 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
   April 2011 FOMC Directive — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6 $2.5 trillion by mid-May  2011.  The Committee also dire cts the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 32 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
  
Explanatory Notes 
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The concepts of the equilibrium real rate  reported in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate” are defined as the level of the r eal federal funds rate th at is consistent with 
output at potential within a specified time horizon.  The short-run equilibrium rate is defined as 
the rate that would close the output gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal funds rate 
projected to prevail in seven years, under the assu mption that monetary policy acts to bring actual 
and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps them equal thereafter. 
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy—
depend on data for major spending categories, price and wages, and the federal funds rate as well as the model’ s structure and estimate of the output 
gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the extended baseline. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 33 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor, arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the nominal 
rate and realized inflation, where the nominal ra te is measured as the quarterly average of the 
observed federal funds rate, and r ealized inflation is given by the log difference between the core 
PCE price index and its lagged value four quarter s earlier.  If the upcoming FOMC meeting falls 
early in the quarter, the lagged inflation measure e nds in the last quarter.  For the current quarter, 
the nominal rate is specified as the target fede ral funds rate on the Tealbook publication date.   
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on the proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimates of the real federa l funds rates using alternative proxies:  lagged 
core PCE inflation, which is used to construct th e actual real federal funds rate shown in the table 
that displays the r* measures; lagged four-quarter headline PCE inflation; and projected four-
quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  The table also displays the 
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate and the average actual real federal funds rate over the next twelve quarters using each of the different 
proxies for expected inflation. 
Proxy used for  
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current val
ue) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Average actual 
real funds rate 
(twelve-quarter 
average) 
Lagged core inflation -0.7 -1.5 -0.5
Lagged headline 
inflation -1.4 -1.8 -0.8
Projected headline inflation -1.1 -1.6 -0.6
 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 34 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS   
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
௧ାଵݕ  and כ
௧െ  ݕ௧ ݕ one quarter ahead ( |௧ െ ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ ,)and the three-quarter-ahead forecast of annual 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ െ Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כ ,)and π* denotes an assumed value 
of policymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  The outcome-based and forecast-based rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the samp le 1988:1-2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion. Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point  increments during the first three quarters of 
1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003). 
Outcome-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
Forecast-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
First-difference rule ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ
FRB/US MODEL SIMULATIONS   
Prescriptions from the two empirical rules are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969-2008.  
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL MARKETS    
The expected funds rate path is based on Eurodollar quotes and implied three-month 
forward rates from  swaps, and the confidence interv als for this path are constructed using prices 
of interest rate caps.  
Explanatory Notes   
 
  
 
    
  
        
  
        
 
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 35 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap.  The first-difference rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the estimated forecast-based 
rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-ha nd-side variable. When the Tealbook is published 
early in the quarter, the lines denoted “Previous  Tealbook” report rule prescriptions based on the 
previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in 
the previous quarter. When the Tealbook is publ ished late in the quarter, the lines denoted 
“Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescrip tions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff 
outlook, but jumping off from th e average value for the policy rate thus far this quarter 
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214. 
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341. 
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 36 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
C. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section entitled “Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are constructe d on a monthly frequency from April 2011 to 
December 2020.  The few balance sheet items th at are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level observed on March 31, 2011.  The projections for 
all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the tables that 
follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate begins to increase in 
September of 2012, as was the case in the Marc h Tealbook.  The balance sheet projections 
assume that no use of short-term draining tools is  necessary to achieve the projected path for the 
federal funds rate.1 
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency MBS, and Agency Debt Securities 
 The assumptions under Alternatives A and B are  
o Purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities between November 
2010 and June 2011.   
o Principal payments from Treasury securities continue to be reinvested through 
November 2011. 
o Principal payments from agency MBS and agency debt securities are reinvested in longer-term Treasury securities through November 2011.
2   
o All purchases of Treasury securities are execu ted using a maturity distribution similar 
to that currently used by the Desk.3 
                                                 
1 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities woul d change: Reserve balances would fall as term 
deposits and reverse repurchase agreements rose.  Presumably these draining tools would be wound down 
as the balance sheet returned to its steady state gr owth path, so that the pr ojected paths for Treasury 
securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
2 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflec t interest rates as of April 19, 2011.   
3 Because current and expected near-term intere st rates are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at  which these securities ar e purchased will generally 
exceed their face value.  Reserve bala nces will increase by the market value, whereas securities holdings as 
reported in the H.4.1 release will increase by the face value; the implied premiums are recorded as “other 
assets.”  These premiums decline gradually from $5 9 billion at the end of 2012 (2.6 percent of SOMA 
assets) to $12 billion at the end 2020 (0.6 percent of SOMA assets). 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 37 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
o Beginning in December 2011, all securities are allowed to roll off the portfolio as 
they mature or prepay. 
o The Federal Reserve begins to sell agency  MBS and agency debt securities in March 
2013, six months after the assumed date of the first increase in the target federal 
funds rate.  Holdings of agency securities are reduced over five years and reach zero by the end of the first quarter of 2018.   
o For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment  is based on estimates of housing market 
factors from one of the program’s investment  managers and interest rate projections 
from the Tealbook.  The projected rate of prepayment is sensitive to these underlying 
assumptions. 
 Under Alternative C, a total of $450 billion in longer-term Treasury securities are 
purchased, and purchases conclude shortly afte r the upcoming meeting.  Beginning in 
July 2011, principal repayments of agency securities are no longer reinvested in 
Treasuries, and all securities roll off the ba lance sheet as they prepay and mature. 
 In the scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  To maintain 
reserve balances at this level, first the U.S. Treasury’s Supplementary Financing Account (SFA) balance is reduced to zero.  After the SFA balance is exhausted, Treasury bills are 
purchased.  Purchases of bills continue un til these securities comprise one-third of the 
Federal Reserve’s total Treasury security holdings–about the averag e level in the period 
prior to the crisis.  Once this level is re ached, the Federal Reserve buys notes and bonds 
in addition to bills to mainta in an approximate composition of the portfolio of one-third 
bills and two-thirds  coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
 Loans through the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Fac ility (TALF) peaked at  
$48 billion in December 2009.  Credit extende d through this facility declines to zero by 
the end of 2014, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
 The assets held by TALF LLC increase to $1.0 billion by the end of 2011 and remain at 
this level through 2014 before declining to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF 
LLC consist of investments of commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. 
Treasury’s initial funding.  In this proj ection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-
backed securities received by the Federal R eserve Bank of New York in connection with 
a decision of a borrower to not repay a TALF loan.  
 The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC and Ma iden Lane III LLC decline gradually over 
time.  The assets of Maiden Lane II LLC fall to zero by April 2012 as securities are 
auctioned off through next year.  
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 38 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
   
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2012.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as projected in the extended Tealbook 
projection. 
 The U.S. Treasury’s General Account (TGA) follows the staff forecast through 
September 2011.4  Then, the TGA slowly drops back to its historical target level of  
$5 billion by March 2012 as it is assumed that the Treasury will implement a new cash 
management system and invest funds in ex cess of $5 billion.  The TGA remains constant 
at $5 billion over the remainder of the forecast period. 
 In the near term, the Treasury maintains the SFA balance at the current level of $5 billion 
in light of debt ceiling constraints.  Going forward, under the assumption that Congress raises the debt ceiling by mid-year, the SFA balance returns gradually to $200 billion by 
September 2011.  Later in the projection, th e SFA balance is gradually reduced in line 
with the overall reduction in the size of the balance sheet, and falls to zero by September 2015.  
 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
 In general, increases in the level of Federal Reserve assets generate higher levels of 
reserve balances.  Increases in the levels of  liability items, such as Federal Reserve notes 
in circulation or the Treasury’s general account , or increases in the level of Reserve Bank 
capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would 
otherwise cause reserve balances to fall be low $25 billion, purchases of Treasury 
securities are assumed in order to mainta in that level of reserve balances. 
 In the event that Federal Reserve earnings  fall short of the amount necessary to cover 
operating costs, pay dividends, and equate surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred asset will 
be recorded.  This deferred asset is record ed in lieu of reducing the Reserve Bank’s 
capital and is found on the liability side of the balance sheet as “Interest on Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”  Note that this liability can take negative values 
when earnings fall short of the expenses lis ted above.  In the projections, however, 
earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses. 
 
                                                 
4 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of 
both the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Treasury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are only $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is a good 
proxy for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 39 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternatives A & B
Billions of dollars
Mar 31, 2011 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,633 2,463 1,725 1,579 1,752 1,952
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 19 7 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 19 7 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 64 38 29 21 9 5
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC64 38 29 21 9 5
Securities held outright 2,410 2,280 1,579 1,456 1,649 1,857
U.S. Treasury securities 1,340 1,422 1,051 1,260 1,649 1,857
Agency debt securities 132 77 39 16 0 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 937 781 489 180 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 7 7 7 7 7
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 139 137 116 102 94 90
Total liabilities 2,581 2,392 1,632 1,456 1,590 1,737
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 964 1,080 1,219 1,349 1,483 1,631
Reverse repurchase agreements 62 60 60 60 60 60
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,525 1,234 336 30 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,408 1,029 131 25 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 111 5 5 5 5 5
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 5 200 200 0 0 0
Other balances 0 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury0 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 53 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 40 of 41
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
Billions of dollars
Mar 31, 2011 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,633 2,237 1,557 1,579 1,752 1,952
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 19 7 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 19 7 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 64 38 29 21 9 5
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC64 38 29 21 9 5
Securities held outright 2,410 2,057 1,411 1,454 1,646 1,854
U.S. Treasury securities 1,340 1,199 883 1,257 1,646 1,854
Agency debt securities 132 77 39 16 0 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 937 781 489 180 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 7 7 7 7 7
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 139 134 116 104 97 93
Total liabilities 2,581 2,167 1,464 1,456 1,590 1,737
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 964 1,080 1,219 1,349 1,483 1,631
Reverse repurchase agreements 62 60 60 60 60 60
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,525 1,008 168 30 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,408 803 25 25 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 111 5 5 5 5 5
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 5 200 137 0 0 0
Other balances 0 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury0 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 53 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 21, 2011
Page 41 of 41
Authorized for Public Release