Prefatory Note 
The attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.  
Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
Content last modified 01/05 /2018. 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
January 19, 2012 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

Monetary Policy Strategies 
Most of the staff estimates of short-run r*—the real federal funds rate that, if 
maintained, would return output to its poten tial in 12 quarters—have decreased a little 
since the December Tealbook.  As shown in the exhibit, “Equilibrium Real Federal Funds 
Rate,” all but one of the estim ates remain below zero and belo w the estimated actual real 
federal funds rate.  Compared with the previous Tealbook, the st aff has revised its 
projections of economic activity  over the medium term down a little.  As a result, the 
estimates of short-run r* generated by the FRB/US m odel and EDO model conditioned on 
the staff’s outlook for the economy (that is , the “Tealbook-consistent” measures) have 
decreased by 10 and 20 basis points, respectively.   In response to a wider staff estimate for 
the output gap in the curr ent quarter, the short-run r* estimates derived from the small 
structural model and the single-equation m odel decreased as well, by 30 and 40 basis 
points, respectively, when compared with the December Tealbook.1  In contrast, the short-
run r*  estimates produced by the FRB/US  and the EDO models (based on their own 
projections) are up slightly because the mode ls’ output gap projections over the medium  
term have narrowed a bit, owing to modest downward revisions in the past and projected 
level of potential output.   
The staff’s modest downward revision to the path of aggregate demand over the 
projection period, combined with its assessm ent that the inflation outlook is broadly 
unchanged, imply that policy prescriptions fr om optimal control simulations of the 
FRB/US model have edged down slightly comp ared with those repor ted in the previous 
Tealbook.2  This result is shown in the exhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary 
Policy.”  In these simulations, policymaker s are assumed to place equal weights on 
keeping headline PCE inflation close to a 2 percent inflation goal, on keeping the 
1 Government spending is also one of the variable s affecting the small structural model’s estimate 
of short run r*.  The fact that incoming data on defense spendi ng has been lower than expected has thus also 
contributed to the decrease in the r* estimate generated by this model. 
2 The staff’s baseline forecast incorp orates the effects of the large-s cale asset purchase program that 
was completed at the end of June 2011, as well as th e effects of the maturity extension program and the 
modifications announced in September to the Federal Reserve’s reinvestment policies. The optimal policy 
simulations therefore also incorporate the effects of these balance sheet policies. 
Strategies  
                                                 
 
   
    
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 1 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
   -10-8-6-4-202468  
 
    
   
    
    
    
( (
    
    
   
    
  
    
  
    
   
    
    
    
   
    
( ( (
    
( ( (
    
   
    
  
    
  
    
(  
    
   
    
 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate 
Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals Percent 
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation 
Range of four model-based estimates 
70 Percent confidence interval 
90 Percent confidence interval Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US) 8
 
6
 4
 2
 0
 
-2
 -4
 -6
 -8
 -10
 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
 
Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures (Percent) 
Current Current Quarter Estimate 
Tealbook as of Previous Tealbook 
Short-Run Measures
 Single-equation model -1.9 -1.5
 
Small structural model -4.1 -3.8
 
EDO model 0.1 0.0
 
FRB/US model -2.8 -3.0
 
Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval -4.3 to 0.1
 90 percent confidence interval -5.4 to 1.3
 Tealbook-consistent measures
 EDO model -4.5 -4.3
 
FRB/US model -3.2 -3.1
 
Medium-Run Measures
 Single-equation model 0.8 0.9
 
Small structural model 0.5 0.6
 
Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval -0.2 to 1.6
 90 percent confidence interval -0.8 to 2.3
 TIPS-based factor model 1.7
 
Memo
 Actual real federal funds rate -1.6
 2010 2011 2012
 
Previous
 
Tealbook
 
-1.8
-3.9-0.2-3.1
-4.4
-3.3 
0.90.5
1.7 
-1.5 
Note: Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals. The actual real federal funds rate shown is generated using lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation
expectations. For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A.  Estimates of r* may change at
the beginning of a quarter even when the staff outlook is unchanged because the twelve-quarter horizon covered by thecalculation has rolled forward one quarter. Therefore, whenever the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, this table
includes a third column labeled "Current Quarter Estimate as of Previous Tealbook." 
Page 2 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
-6-4-202468  
-8-6-4-2024  
34567891011  
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0  
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy 
(2 Percent Inflation Goal) 
Nominal Federal Funds Rate Real Federal Funds Rate 
Percent Percent 
Current Tealbook: Constrained 
Previous Tealbook: Constrained Current Tealbook: Unconstrained 8
 
6
 
4
 
2
 0 
-2 -4 
-6 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 
Civilian Unemployment Rate 
Percent 4
 
2
 
0 
-2 
-4 
-6 
-8 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 
PCE Inflation 
Four-quarter average Percent 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 11
 
10
 9
 8
 
7
 
6
 5
 4
 
3
 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
0.5 
0.0 
Page 3 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
unemployment rate close to the staff’s estimate of the effective natural rate of  
unemployment, and on minimizing changes in the federal funds rate.3    
The simulations indicate that the optimal path for the federal funds rate does not 
begin to rise appreciably above zero until mid-2016, about the same as the previous 
Tealbook.4  By keeping the funds rate near zero for such a long stretch of time and raising 
it at a moderate pace once tightening begins , optimal policy would promote a faster pace 
of economic recovery than in the staff’s baseline outlook as we ll as an inflation rate over 
the medium run closer to the FOMC’s assume d target of 2 percent.  Specifically, the 
unemployment rate would first reach the staff’ s estimate of the effective natural rate of 
unemployment in mid-2016 with  inflation at 2¼ percent.5  In contrast, the baseline staff 
forecast shows the unemployment rate falling only to 6½ percent and inflation running  
closer to 1½ percent by the end of 2016 (not shown).  Policymakers in the optimal control 
exercises respond to the lower bound constraint by credibly promising to keep interest 
rates low for an extended period of time, thereby boosting inflation expectations and 
reducing real rates over the early part of the simulation.  As a result, in the second half of 
the simulation period, unemployment briefly undershoots the effectiv e natural rate and 
inflation decreases slowly  back to 2 percent. 
If the nominal federal funds rate coul d fall below zero, the funds rate under 
optimal policy would decline to minus 3 percent in the second quarter of 2013 and would 
not turn positive until the third quarter of 2015.  In this case, the unemployment rate would decline more rapidly than under the constrained policy and would then remain 
roughly stable at about 5½ percent after 2015.  With the unemployment rate stabilized, 
inflation reaches its target level about tw o years earlier than in the constrained 
simulations.  
3 These simulations embed the assumption that policymakers can credibly commit to a policy rate 
path that extends many years into the future, conditional on underlying  economic conditions unfolding as 
expected. 
4 Although the loss function uses headline inflation in stead of core inflation,  the real federal funds 
rate shown in the upper right panel of the exhibit is  calculated as the differen ce between the nominal funds 
rate and a four-quarter moving average of core PCE inflation.  Core PCE inflation is used to compute the 
real rate because it provides a less volatile measure of  inflation expectations than a four-quarter moving 
average of headline inflation, and because it makes the real rate path shown in this exhibit easier to compare 
with measures of the real rate reported elsewhere in the Tealbook. 
5 Reflecting the transitory effects of extended une mployment benefits, the staff’s estimate of the 
effective NAIRU falls from 6½ percent in the first quart er of 2012 to 6 percent by the first quarter of 2014, 
and then declines furthe r until it reaches 5¼ percen t by the end of 2017. 
Strategies    
                                                  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 4 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
As shown in the upper left panel of the exhibit “Policy Rules and Market-Based 
Expectations for the Federal Funds Rate,” th e funds rate path implied by the estimated 
outcome-based policy rule is slightly below that contained in th e December Tealbook.  If 
policy follows this rule, the funds rate would move above its effective lower bound in the 
fourth quarter of 2014, the same quarter as in  the previous Tealbook, and would then rise 
at a slightly slower pace, reaching just under 2½ percent, instead of 2¾ percent, by the end 
of 2016.6  As shown in the upper right panel, in formation from financial markets suggests 
that investors’ expectations for the path of the federal f unds rate have declined slightly 
since the December Tealbook.  Mark et participants expect the funds rate not to rise 
appreciably above its current target range unt il the beginning of 2014, about a quarter later 
than in the previous Tealbook.  Compared with the December Tealbook, uncertainty about 
the path of the federal funds rate implied by financial market data has declined somewhat.  
The lower panel of the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from simple policy 
rules.7  As shown in the left-hand columns, pres criptions for the federal funds rate from 
most of the rules remain at or near the effective lower bound.8  The right-hand columns 
display the prescriptions that would arise from these rules in the absence of the lower-
bound constraint.  Compared with the December Tealbook, the staff foresees a slightly 
wider output gap over the near term, resulting in lower near-term prescriptions from the 
simple rules.  
6 The estimated outcome-based rule depends on the lagged federal funds rate, defined as the actual 
policy rate observed in the previous quarter, which has been constrained by its effective lower bound since 
late 2008.  The confidence interval implies a 10 percent chance that the federal funds rate is above 40 basis 
points in the current quarter.  If instead the lagged va lues used in generating these probabilities had not been 
constrained by the effective lower bound from being negative in the previous quarters, this probability 
would be negligible. 
7 In contrast to the optimal control simulations, which use headline inflation in the policymakers’ 
objective function, the policy rule prescriptions use core inflation as the measure of inflation.  This choice of 
rule specification was made in light of the tendency for current and near-term core inflation rates to 
outperform headline inflation rates as predictors of the medium-term behavior of headline inflation.  Thus, the use of headline inflation in the optimal control simulations and of core inflation in the policy rules are both consistent with the notion that policymakers are concerned with the medium-term behavior of headline inflation. 
8 The Taylor (1993) rule, which places less wei ght on the output gap, prescribes policy rates 
between 25 and 75 basis points for the first two quarters of 2012. 
Strategies    
                                                  
  
    
 
    
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 5 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations for the Federal Funds Rate 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Percent 
Note:  In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule 
Note:  The staff baseline projection for the federal funds rate is derived from the outcome-based policy rule shown in 
the top-left panel.  The top-right panel depicts the mean path and confidence intervals of future federal funds rates derived from market quotes as of January 18. In both panels, dark and light shadings represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively. Explanatory Note B provides further background information. Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Memo 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Percent Market-Based Expectations
for the Federal Funds Rate 
Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy 
2012Q1 2012Q2 2012Q1 2012Q2 
Taylor (1993) rule 0.73 0.40 0.73 0.40
     Previous Tealbook 0.90 0.59 0.90 0.59 
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -2.09 -2.43
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -1.82 -2.15 
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.22 -0.61
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.11 -0.42 
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.37 -0.78
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.27 -0.61 
First-difference rule 0.13 0.13 -0.13 -0.30
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.02 -0.14 
2012Q1 2012Q2 
Staff assumption 0.08 0.10 
Fed funds futures 0.08 0.09 
Median expectation of primary dealers 0.13 0.13 
Blue Chip forecast (January 1, 2012) 0.10 0.10 
Strategies012345678  
012345678  
 
 
  
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 6 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  Of course, the Committee could blend components of the various 
alternatives to construct its desired statement. 
All three of the draft statem ents make adjustments to the Committee’s forward guidance 
regarding the anticipated path of the federal funds rate.  Alternative B offers a choice between an 
explicit statement of the conditions for unemp loyment and inflation under which the Committee 
anticipates maintaining the current target range and a simpler statement that economic conditions 
are likely to warrant the current  target range at least through 2014.  Alternative A uses explicit 
conditional language like that offere d in Alternative B, linking the retention of the current target 
range to economic conditions.  Al ternative C begins to remove policy accommodation, in part by 
shortening the period over which rates are antici pated to remain exceptionally low to “for an 
extended period.” 
The alternatives also provide a number of options regarding bala nce sheet policies.  
Alternative A presents the Comm ittee with a choice between two ve rsions of an asset purchase 
program:  one is discrete in nature (buying $500 billion of agency mort gage-backed securities 
(MBS) by the end of January 2013), the other is a more flexible approach to asset purchases 
(announcing the purchase of MBS at a rate of $40 b illion per month, with adjustments as needed 
to foster the Committee’s objectives).  Alternativ e B makes no adjustment to the balance sheet at 
this meeting, while Alternative C scales back th e maturity extension program (MEP), cutting it in 
half and completing it by the end of February. 
The draft statements also differ in their characterization of economic conditions.  
Alternatives A and B say that the economy ha s been expanding “moderately” even though global 
economic growth has slowed.  By contrast, Altern ative C states that the economic recovery “has 
strengthened somewhat” and makes no referen ce to global growth.  Alternatives A and B 
acknowledge that indicators of labor market co nditions point to further improvement, but note 
that the unemployment rate remains elevated.  Alternative C, conversel y, acknowledges that the 
unemployment rate is elevated, but instead empha sizes the declines in the unemployment rate 
and the positive tone of some other indicators.  Alternatives A and B st ate that “inflation has 
been subdued in recent months,” whereas Altern ative C states that inflation “has moderated 
somewhat” from the first half of last year. 
Alternatives 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 7 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Regarding the economic outlook, Alternative B indicates that the Committee expects 
economic growth over coming quarters to be modest , with a result that the unemployment rate 
declines only slowly.  Alternat ive A points to modest economic growth over coming quarters 
“absent further policy action,” and characterizes the expected decline in the unemployment rate 
as “only very” gradual.  Under Alternative C, th e Committee would state that  it expects a firming 
in the pace of economic growth w ith the unemployment rate declin ing (without a modifier).  In 
terms of inflation, Alternative A provides the option of either characterizing the Committee’s 
expectation for inflation as running “below” or “at or below” levels  that are consistent with the 
Committee’s mandate; Alternative B states that infl ation is likely to run “at or below” such 
levels.  Alternative C notes that the Committee anticipates that inflation will “run at levels” consistent with its dual mandate.  Alternative C states that the Committee will continue to pay close attention to inflation, while Alternatives A dr ops this reference, and Alternative B leaves its 
inclusion as an option. 
The final paragraph of each statement provide s an indication about fu
 ture policy actions.  
Alternative A states that the Co mmittee “will employ its tools as needed,” in order to suggest 
that the Committee is open to a dditional policy action.  Alternative B subsumes the discussion of 
future policy action into the discussion of balanc e sheet policies, but suggests that the Committee 
could make changes to those  policies to strengthe n the recovery.  Alternative C is neutral, noting 
that the Committee “will assess the economic outlook” and “is pr epared” to use its tools to 
promote its objectives. 
The following table highlights key elements of the alternative statements.  The table is 
followed by complete draft statements, and th en by a summary of the arguments for each 
alternative.  
Alternatives   
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 8 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
  
 
  
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
    
 
  
 
    
 
  
  
  
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012Table 1: Overview of Policy Alternatives for the January 25 FOMC Statement 
Selected 
Elements December Statement January Alternatives 
A B C 
Balance Sheet 
MEP $400 billion; 
complete by 
end of June 2012 unchanged cut to $200 billion 
and complete by 
February 2012 
Additional 
Purchases 
none $500 billion of agency MBS 
by end of January 2013 
OR 
$40 billion of agency MBS per 
month; will adjust  this program as 
needed to foster objectives none 
Reinvestment 
Policies principal payments 
of agency debt and 
MBS into agency 
MBS; 
Treasuries into 
Treasuries unchanged 
Forward Rate Guidance 
Explicit 
Statement none at least as long as unemployment 
exceeds [6½] percent and at least as long as 
unemployment exceeds 
[7] percent and 
none 
inflation rate is projected to be either below or close to 2 
percent, and long-term expectations remain anchored; 
Committee expects conditions to prevail at least through 2014 
Simpler Statement at least through 
mid-2013 none through 2014 for an extended 
period 
Future Policy Action 
Future Actions prepared to employ 
its tools to promote 
stronger economic 
recovery will employ its tools as needed to 
promote stronger economic 
recovery in a context of price 
stability prepared to adjust holdings 
as appropriate prepared to employ 
its tools as 
appropriate to 
promote objectives of 
maximum 
employment and 
price stability 
Page 9 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
DECEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in November 
suggests that the economy has been e xpanding moderately, notwithstanding some  
apparent slowing in global growth.  While indicators po int to some improvement in 
overall labor market conditions, the unemplo yment rate remains elevated.  Household 
spending has continued to advance, but business fixed investment appears to be 
increasing less rapidly and the housing sect or remains depressed.  Inflation has 
moderated since earlier in the year, and longer- term inflation expectations have remained 
stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee continues to expect a moderate pace of economic growth over coming quarters and consequently anticipates that the 
unemployment rate will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Stra ins in global financial markets continue to 
pose significant downside risks to the econom ic outlook.  The Committee also anticipates 
that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at  levels at or below those consistent with 
the Committee's dual mandate.  However, th e Committee will continue to pay close 
attention to the evolution of infl ation and inflation expectations. 
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to he lp ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, th e Committee decided today to continue its 
program to extend the average maturity of its  holdings of securities as announced in 
September.  The Committee is maintaining it s existing policies of reinvesting principal 
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in 
agency mortgage-backed securities and of  rolling over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities 
holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate. 
4. The Committee also decided to keep the target  range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely 
to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at  least through mid-2013. 
5. The Committee will continue to assess the economic outlook in light of incoming information and is prepared to employ its to ols to promote a stronge r economic recovery 
in a context of price stability.  
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 10 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012JANUARY FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A 
1. 	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in November December 
suggests that the economy has been expanding moderately, notwithstanding some apparent 
slowing in global growth.  While indicators point to some further  improvement in overall 
labor market conditions, the unemployment rate remains elevated.  Household spending has continued to advance, but growth in  business fixed investment appears to be increasing less 
rapidly has slowed,  and the housing sector remains depressed.  Inflation has moderated since 
earlier in the year been subdued in recent months , and longer-term inflation expectations 
have remained stable. 
2. 	 Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  The Committee continues to  expect s a moderate that, absent further 
policy action, the  pace of economic growth would remain modest  over coming quarters and 
consequently anticipates that the unemployment rate will would  decline only very  gradually 
toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Strains in 
global financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook.  
The Committee also anticipates that over coming quarters, inflation will settle, run at levels 
[ at or ] below those consistent with the Committee's dual mandate.  However, the Committee 
will continue to pay close attention to the ev olution of inflation and inflation expectations . 
3. 	 To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to purchase up to an 
additional $500 billion of agency mortgage-bac ked securities by the end of January 
2013. In addition, the Committee intends to continue its program to extend the average 
maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in September.  The Committee is also 
maintaining its existing policies of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of 
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed secu rities in agency mortgage-backed securities 
and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  These programs should put 
downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, provide support to mortgage 
markets, and help make broader fina ncial conditions more accommodative.  The 
Committee will regularly review the size and co mposition of its securities holdings and is 
prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate. 
OR 
3´.	 To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to purchase 
additional agency mortgage-backed securities, initially at a rate of $40 billion per 
month . The Committee will adjust the pace of purchases and determine the ultimate 
size of the program in light of the evolving economic outlook and as needed to foster its objectives. In addition, the Committee intends to  continue its program to extend the 
average maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in September.  The Committee is 
also maintaining its existing policies of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of 
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed secu rities in agency mortgage-backed securities 
and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  These programs should put 
downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, provide support to mortgage 
markets, and help make broader fina ncial conditions more accommodative.  The 
Committee will regularly review the size and co mposition of its securities holdings and is 
prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate. 
Page 11 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
4. The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently now anticipates that economic conditions —including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to 
warrant this exceptionally low levels range  for the federal funds rate at least through mid -
2013 will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate exceeds  [ 6½ ] 
percent, the inflation rate (as measured by  the price index for personal consumption 
expenditures) at a one- to two-year horizon is projected to be either below or close to 2 
percent, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored .  On the 
basis of currently available information, the Committee expects these conditions to 
prevail at least through 2014. 
5. The Committee will continue to assess the economic outlook in light of incoming 
information and is prepared to  employ its tools as needed  to promote a stronger economic 
recovery in a context of price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 12 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012JANUARY FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. 	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in November 
December suggests that the economy has been expanding moderately, notwithstanding 
some apparent  slowing in global growth. While indicators point to some further 
improvement in overall labor market conditions, the unemployment rate remains 
elevated. Household spending ha s continued to advance, but growth in  business fixed 
investment appears to be  increasing less rapidly has slowed,  and the housing sector 
remains depressed.  Inflation has moderated since earlier in the year been subdued in 
recent months , and longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. 
2. 	 Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stabilit y.  The Committee continues to expects  a moderate pace of 
economic growth over coming quarters to be modest  and consequently anticipates that 
the unemployment rate will decline only gradually make only slow progress  toward 
levels that the Committee judges to be consistent  with its dual mandate.  Strains in global 
financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook.  
The Committee also anticipates that ove r coming quarters, inflation will settle , run  at 
levels at or below those consistent  with the Committee's dual mandate.  [ However, the 
Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation 
expectations. ] 
3. 	 To support a stronger economic recovery and to he lp ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee intends to maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy. In particular, the Committee also 
decided today to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and 
currently anticipates that economic conditions —including low rates of resource 
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run —are likely to 
warrant this exceptionally low levels range  for the federal funds rate at least through 
mid-2013 will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate exceeds  [ 7 ] 
percent, the inflation rate (as measured by  the price index for personal consumption 
expenditures) at a one- to two-year horizo n is projected to be either below or close 
to 2 percent, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored . 
On the basis of currently available info rmation, the Committee expects these 
conditions to prevail at least through 2014. 
OR 
3´. 	 To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy. In particular, the Committee also 
decided today to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and 
currently anticipates that economic cond itions—including low rates of resource 
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflat ion over the medium run—are likely to 
warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at  least through mid-2013 
2014. 
Page 13 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
4. The Committee also decided today  to continue its program to  extend the average maturity 
of its holdings of securities as announced in September.  The Committee is maintaining 
its existing policies of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee will regularly 
review the size and composition of its securities  holdings and is prepared to adjust those 
holdings as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price 
stability . 
5. The Committee will continue to assess the economic outlook in light of incoming 
information and is prepared to employ its tools to promo te a stronger economic recovery 
in a context of price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 14 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012JANUARY FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1. 	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in November 
December suggests that the econom ic has been expanding moderately, notwi thstanding 
some apparent slowing in global growth recovery has strengthened somewhat . While 
indicators point to some improvement  in overall labor market conditions, Although the 
unemployment rate remains elevated , it has declined recently, and employment 
continues to increase . Household spending has continued to  advanced further , but and 
business fixed investment appears to be increasing less rapidly and has continued to 
expand, but  the housing sector remains depresse d.  Inflation has moderated since earlier 
in the somewhat since the first half of last year, and longer-term inflation expectations 
have remained stable. 
2. 	 Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stabilit y.  The Committee continues to  expects  a moderate firming 
in the  pace of economic growth over coming quart ers and consequently anticipates that 
the unemployment rate will decline only  gradually toward levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Strains in g lobal financial markets 
continue to pose significant downs ide risks to the economic outlook.   The Committee 
also anticipates that over coming quarters, inflation will settle , run  at levels at or below 
those consistent with the Committee's dual mandate.  Ho wever, The Committee will 
continue to pay close attenti on to the evolution of inflati on and inflation expectations. 
3. 	 To support a stronger the economic recovery and to help while  ensur ing that inflation, 
over time, is at levels that are  consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided 
today to continue its reduce by half the size of the  program to extend the average 
maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in September and to complete the 
program by the end of February . The Committee is maintaining its existing policies of 
reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-back ed securities and of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate. 
4. 	 The Committee also decided to keep the target  range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently now anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely 
to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate  at least through m id-2013 
for an extended period . 
5. 	 The Committee will continue to  assess the economic outlook in light of incoming 
information and is prepared to employ its tools as appropriate  to promote a stronger 
economic recovery in a context of its objectives of maximum employment and  price 
stability. 
Page 15 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
The Committee may view the economic inform ation received since the last meeting as 
indicating that progress towards its objectives is likely to remain modest.  If so, it may wish to 
issue a statement like that in Alternative B, which includes no new asset purchases, but shifts out 
the date referenced in the Committee’s forward guidance to “through 2014” and, in one variant, 
would provide greater clarity a bout how the Committee’s outlook for the anticipated path for the 
federal funds rate relates to economic developm ents.  These changes in forward guidance could 
be seen as helpful in easing financial conditi ons without committing to additional balance sheet 
action at this stage.  
The Committee, like the staff, may view  the recent economic indicators as having 
countervailing implications for the economy over the medium run, leaving the outlook just a bit 
weaker than at the time of the last Tealbook.  The unemployment rate has declined in recent 
months, and other indicators have  shown some improvement in la bor market conditions, but the 
level of the unemployment rate remains elev ated.  Household spending has continued to 
advance, but the rise in business investment appear s to have slowed sharply in the fourth quarter, 
and the housing sector continues to be de pressed.  Looking forward, the Committee may 
continue to see only a modest economic expansion and a slow decline in the unemployment rate, 
with that decline importantly attributable to the expiration of unemploym ent benefits.  Although 
the gloom surrounding fiscal and financial developm ents in Europe appears to have lightened a 
bit, without a clear resolution to the issues there, the Committee may see the downside risks 
posed to the economic outlook as still significant.  With the effects of the shocks witnessed in the 
first half of last year having subsided, infla tion has been subdued in recent months, and the 
Committee may expect that over coming quarters, inflation will run at rates at or below those 
consistent with the Committee’s objectives.  
Because the Committee would st ate under Alternative B that  it anticipates inflation 
running at or below its target rate, members may wish to re move the statement that the 
Committee will pay “close attention” to inflation and inflation expectations.  That sentence was 
introduced at a time when inflation was r unning above levels that the Committee thought 
consistent with the dual mandate but was projected to decline, and the risks to inflation remained 
to the upside.  The sentence provided a sens e that the Committee would be appropriately 
cautious about inflation in those circumstances.  In the current situation, members may think that the sentence could be deleted because, with in flation having moderated substantially and the 
risks to inflation roughly bala nced, the reassurance it provided is no longer needed.  Moreover, 
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 16 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
the second paragraph of the FOMC statement ge nerally reflects the Committee’s outlook for 
economic variables, so an implicit reference to possible future actions may not belong in that 
paragraph. 
Alternative B provides two vari ants of the forward guidance.1  Under the version in 
paragraph 3, the Committee would state that it “intends” to maintain an accommodative stance 
for policy and then go on to note that it anticipates  that keeping the federal funds rate at its 
current level will be appropriate so long as the unemployment rate exceeds 7 percent, the 
inflation rate (as measured by the price index fo r personal consumption expe nditures) at a one- to 
two-year horizon is projected to be either below or close to 2 pe rcent, and longer-term inflation 
expectations remain well anchored.  The statem ent would then note that the Committee expects 
these conditions to prevail at  least through 2014.  In the past, some participants have been 
hesitant to employ numerical thresholds in this way out of concern that the thresholds could be mistaken by the public for the Committee’s objectives for inflation and unemployment.  
However, if the consensus statement is adopted at  this meeting, the risk of such confusion should 
be greatly reduced.  Indeed, this approach would help to clarify the Committee’s reaction 
function.  A threshold of 7 percent for the unemplo yment rate would be br oadly consistent with 
the level of the unemployment rate at the time of lift off prescribed by some calibrations of 
simple rules for monetary policy, such as the Tayl or (1999) rule with a NA IRU of 5½ percent, an 
inflation rate and inflation target of 2 percent, an equilibrium real interest rate of  2 percent, and 
an Okun’s Law coefficient of 2.5.
2  The Tealbook extended proj ection, which uses a reaction 
function estimated from historical data, sees the federal funds rate rising in late 2014, at a time  
when the unemployment rate is projected to be ro ughly 7¾ percent.  If mark et participants based 
their expectations on such an empirically derive d rule, the language in paragraph 3 would signal 
that the Committee is prepared to maintain th e current setting for th e federal funds rate 
somewhat longer than currently anticipated.  Ne vertheless, such a formulation would leave the 
Committee considerable flexibility.  If the econo mic expansion were to unexpectedly gather 
steam and inflationary pressures were to mount , such that inflation was projected to pickup 
notably or inflation expectations showed signs of becoming unmoored, the statement implies that 
1 Because the innovation of Altern ative B would be the modification to the forward guidance, and no 
additional balance sheet policy actions would be taken at this meeting, the ordering of paragraphs 3 and 4 has been 
reversed relative to the December statement. 
2 The memo “Approaches to Clarifying the Conditiona lity in the Committee’s Fo rward Guidance” prepared 
for the FOMC in September 2011 (Brian Doyle, Spence Hilton, Michael Kiley, Andrew Levin, David Lopez-Salido, Steve Meyer, Ed Nelson, Matt Raskin, David Reifschneider, and Robert Tetlow of the Board of Governors and the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York) provides greater detail about different thresholds and their relationships to 
various policy rules. 
Alternatives   
 
                                                  
       
    
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 17 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
the Committee would likely act to contain such pr essures.  Making the inflation threshold in 
terms of a projection provides the Committee flex ibility to look through transitory shocks to 
inflation.  Setting the threshold at “close to 2 pe rcent,” rather than precisely at 2 percent,would 
reinforce the notion that the Committee could allow inflation to temporarily run above 2 percent 
in order to bring the unemployment rate dow n more rapidly, but th at the Committee would 
expect any such overshooting to be modest.  Nevertheless, because the Committee would also 
point to longer-term inflation expe ctations, it would be signaling that, even if near-term inflation 
remained low, rising inflation expectations coul d lead to a firming in  the stance of policy. 
Paragraph 3´ of Alternative B provides a simp ler formulation, under which the 
Committee would push back its indication of the possible time of lift-off without providing specific information on the economic conditions that  it sees as consiste nt with an unchanged 
target rate.  In that version, the Committee would state that it “expects”  to maintain a highly 
accommodative stance of monetary policy and use language very similar to that used in the 
December statement.  To provide a bit more accommodation, however, the Committee would move the date referenced in the forward guidan ce from “at least through mid-2013” to “at least 
through 2014.”  Such a formulation would express the Committee’s anticipation that it will hold 
the federal funds rate at its cu rrent level for longer than has been previously announced, but it 
could also provide the Committee wi th greater flexibility to adjust  policy in response to a wide 
range of variables, relative to the language in  paragraph 3. 
Some policymakers may be inclined toward a dditional asset purchases at this meeting in 
order to make more-satisfactory progress to ward the Committee’s objectives.  Indeed, the 
minutes of the December meeting noted that a number of members believed that economic 
conditions at that time could well have warrant ed additional policy action.  The unemployment 
rate remains very high, and compared with the la st Tealbook, the staff anticipates that economic 
activity in the near term will decelerate more  than previously thought because of weaker 
spending by the federal government and somewhat  less favorable global economic conditions.  A 
staff memorandum prepared for this meeting suggests that an LSAP program including 
purchases of an additional $500 billion of ag ency MBS would be expected to reduce the 
unemployment rate by about ¼ pe rcentage point and to increa se inflation by a bit less.
3  That 
said, policymakers may see the improvement in the unemployment rate that additional asset 
3 For a more complete discussion, please refer to  the memo “Possible Large-Scale Asset Purchase 
Program” (by Michelle Ezer, Jo sh Frost, Matthew Raskin, Ju lie Remache, and Nate Wuerffel of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York and Seth Carpenter, Jane Ihrig , Elizabeth Klee, Canlin Li and Min Wei of the Federal Reserve 
Board of Governors) that was sent to the Committee on January 18, 2012. 
Alternatives   
 
                                                  
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 18 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
purchases could generate as small when compared  to the potential risks and costs of such an 
action.  For example, participants may worry that their ability to normalize the balance sheet in a 
timely manner, when such a shift in policy becomes necessary, would be hindered by a further 
expansion of asset holdings.  In addition, an increase in the supply of reserve balances in conjunction with a larger balance sheet could serve to push inflati on expectations higher if the 
public were to harbor similar wo rries.  Finally, policymakers may view the risk to the Federal 
Reserve’s net income from an unanticipated rise  in interest rates would be unacceptably large 
with an expanded balance sheet.  If such were the case, policymakers may prefer adjustments to 
the forward guidance of the statem ent, rather than a new LSAP program, as a means of providing 
further policy stimulus at this meeting. 
Alternatively, policymakers may place higher weight on th
 e recent declines in the 
unemployment rate than does th e staff and may read other indicators of labor market 
conditions—declining initial claims, increasing employment, and improving household 
sentiment—as also suggesting a distinct improvement in overall labor market conditions.  
Moreover, although short-term measures of in flation appear to have moderated, some  
policymakers may not yet see this change as sufficient to provide confidence that inflationary 
pressures have fully abated.  Nevertheless, wi th the uncertainty surr ounding the outlook being 
unusually large, policy makers may wish to aw ait additional information on the outlook for the 
unemployment rate and inflation, which could confirm that the ec onomic expansion is more fully 
established, before beginning the process of removing monetary policy accommodation. 
The Desk’s survey of primary dealers sugge sts that market part icipants expect the 
Committee to adjust its forward guidance, but do not expect additional balance sheet policies to 
be announced at this meeting.  Market quotes suggest that investors see significant odds on the Committee raising the federal funds rate at some point over the course of 2014.  Thus, a 
statement like that in Alternativ e B would likely push out expectati ons for the date of the first 
rise in the funds rate and lead  to some easing of financial c onditions.  The possible size of the 
effects on policy expectations and longer-term interest rates is  discussed in the box entitled 
“Forward Rate Guidance and Policy Expectatio ns.”  The box concludes that the adoption of 
language along the lines of paragraph 3 ΄ could lead longer-term interest rates to fall, perhaps by 
as much as 10 to 15 basis points.  The foreign exchange value of the dol lar would likely decline 
some; equity prices would presumably rise, although that effect could be mu ted to the extent that 
market participants viewed the statement as suggesting a weaker outlook for the economy.  Employing the more-explicit, cond itional forward guidance in pa ragraph 3 would likely have a 
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 19 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Forward   Rate  Guidance   and  Policy  Expectations   
As  the  Committee  considers   possible  changes  to  the  forward  rate   guidance   included  in  the  
FOMC  statement,   it  may  be  useful  to  review  the  estimated   effects  on  policy  expectations   
and  Treasury   yields  of  the  introduction   of  the  “at  least  through  mid‐2013”   language  in  the  
August  9,  2011,  statement.    Overall,  the  introduction  of  that  language  appears  to  have  played  
an  important   role,  both   initially  and  over  time,   in  shaping  investors’  expectations   regarding   
the  path  of  the  target  federal  funds  rate.  
Immediately   following   the  release  of  the  August  statement,   quotes  on  interest  rate  caps  
implied  that  investors   pushed  out  their  expected   date  of  tightening   by  two  quarters  from  
the  second  quarter  of  2013  to  the  fourth  quarter  of  2013  (left‐ hand  figure  below).    In  
addition,  as  illustrated   by  the  red  and  blue  lines  in  the  figure  to  the  right,  the  expected   funds  
rate  path  beyond  2014  derived  from  overnight  index  swap  (OIS)  rates  dropped  about  20  
basis  points  on  the  day  of  the  announcement.    Moreover,  the  Treasury  yield  curve   (not  
shown),  flattened   noticeably   that  day,  with   2‐ and  10‐year   Treasury  yields  declining   about  10  
and  20  basis  points,  respectively.    
The  introduction   of  the  forward  guidance   also  apparently   led  near‐term  policy  rate  
expectations   to  be  better  anchored   and  less  sensitive  to  macro  data  surprises.   In  particular,   
the  middle  panel  of  the  table  below  shows  average  absolute  changes  in  rates  on  Eurodollar   
futures  contracts   expiring  around  mid‐2013  over  a  thirty‐minute  window  surrounding   
important   macroeconomic   data  releases.   These  calculations   are  based  on  data  over  the  five  
months  since  August  9,  2011,  where  the  changes  in  rates  are  normalized   by  the  magnitude   of  
standardized   macroeconomic   surprises.1   The  top  panel  of  the  table  shows  corresponding   
changes  in  contracts   with   similar  horizons   over  the  five‐month  period  between   March   1  and  
August  8.   The  ratios  between  the  post‐ and  pre‐August  responses,   reported   in  the  bottom  
panel,  suggest  that  the  sensitivities   of  futures  rates  to  macroeconomic   news  declined  
significantly   following   the  August  FOMC  meeting,   consistent   with   the  interpretation   that  the  
forward  guidance   was  perceived   by  market   participants   as  having  considerable  credibility.2   
1 The following economic releases were used: nonfarm payrolls, capacity utilization, housing starts, new home 
sales, existing home sales, ISM, industrial production, retail sales, Michigan consumer sentiment, consumer 
confidence, CPI ex Food & Energy, and PCE prices. 
2 Also consistent with this interpretation are the notable declines in measures of policy uncertainty, such as 
option implied and realized volatilities of the Eurodollar futures rates, since the August 2011 FOMC meeting. 
Alternatives    
       
                                                 
                             
                          
                   
                                
                             
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012‐
Page 20 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
    
                                
                       
                         
 
              
           
     
            
             
   
            
             
    
             
                           
                                 
                         
                             
                                 
                                     
                                     
                           
                         
                             
                           
                         
                         
                                
                           
                           
                           
                                 
                               
                           
                         
                              
                             
                       
                     
                         
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012On the other hand, the fact that futures rates continued to respond to macro data surprises 
following the statement, although to a lesser degree, suggests that investors correctly 
interpreted the forward guidance as conditional on the future evolution of the economic 
outlook. 
Average Absolute Responses of Eurodollar Futures Rates 
to Macroeconomic News (in basis points) 
Pre "mid‐2013" language 
Futures Contract Sep‐12 Dec‐12 Mar‐13 Jun‐13 
Average Response 6.39 8.39 8.02 9.37 
Post "mid‐2013" language 
Futures Contract Mar‐13 Jun‐13 Sep‐13 Dec‐13 
Average Response 2.31 2.59 3.02 4.54 
Post/Pre Ratio of 
Average Responses 0.36 0.31 0.38 0.48 
Experience with the introduction of the forward guidance in August of last year suggests 
that the shift in the expected lift‐off date to the end of 2014 under paragraph 3’ of 
Alternative B could have an appreciable effect on policy expectations and longer‐term yields. 
For example, if the revised forward guidance resulted in an expected federal funds rate path 
that remained at the middle of the current target range through the end of 2014, the result 
might be viewed as a policy shock of about ‐45 basis points at the end of 2014 based on the 
policy rate path as of January 18, 2011 (shown by the black line in the chart of OIS curves 
above). Of course, the impact of this shock on longer‐term rates depends importantly on 
how the shock to nearer‐ term policy expectations is propagated to longer horizons. One 
plausible assumption might be that the effect of this policy shock on policy expectations at 
longer horizons decays geometrically at a rate of about 10 percent per quarter—a rate 
roughly consistent with historical evidence on the effects of policy shocks. Under this 
assumption, the implied effect of the change in forward guidance on longer‐term Treasury 
yields would be a decline of 10‐15 basis points. Of course, if the forward guidance were seen 
as less than fully credible, the effect on longer‐term interest rates would be reduced. 
The effect of the revised forward guidance under paragraph 3 of Alternative B, which 
indicates that the Committee intends to maintain the current targe t range for the federal 
funds rate at least as long as unemployment is above 7 percent and inflation is projected to 
be either below or close to 2 percent, is more difficult to guage. Since private sector 
forecasters, like the staff, foresee only a gradual decline in the unemployment rate and 
generally subdued inflation, the effect of this forward guidance on longer‐term yields would 
likely be larger than that of the guidance in paragraph 3’. However, the effects on longer‐
term yields would depend on a number of factors, including the credibility of the forward 
guidance at longer horizons; market participants’ expectations regarding the effects of the 
easier policy stance on unemployment, inflation, and inflation expectations; and investors’ 
views about the pace of withdrawal of policy accommodation once the thresholds are 
reached. 
Page 21 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
somewhat larger effect on financial market pric es, but, as noted in the box, the extent of the 
effects is unclear and would depend on a number of factors. 
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
The Committee may see the incoming data over the intermeeting period as confirming 
that the pace of the economic recovery will continue to be unacceptably slow and so wish to 
provide more substantial monetary policy accomm odation, along the lines of Alternative A.  The 
Committee may read the negative indicators about th e health of labor markets, such as the low 
labor force participation rate a nd the level of long-duration un employment, as suggesting that 
only very modest improvement is being made, notwithstanding the pickup in payroll 
employment and the recent decline in the unemp loyment rate.  Given the state of the labor 
market and the depth of the recession, members ma y also be worried that the economy is at risk 
of an erosion of the skills and labor force att achment of unemployed workers, along the lines of 
the “Lost Decade” alternative simulation.  
More broadly, policymakers may read the incoming information showing a moderate rise 
in consumer spending, lackluster business inve stment, and a pullback in defense outlays as 
pointing to only a modest pace of expansion in th e near term.  Participants may see inflation as 
having been subdued recently and anticipate that, in  coming quarters, inflation will probably run 
at levels below those that the Committee considers consistent with its dual mandate.  As a result, 
they may see the economy as likely falling short of both of the Committee’s objectives for a 
protracted period.  Indeed, Committee participants may place some weight on the optimal control 
simulations of the FRB/US model, which indi cate that, even given the monetary policy 
accommodation now in place, additional action to ease financial conditions could achieve a 
better outcome in terms of the Committee’s dua l objectives.  Alternatively, members may see 
considerable risk from a possible worsening of  financial conditions in  Europe—with potential 
spillovers to the United States as outlined in the “European Crisis” alternative simulation—and therefore see additional accommodation now as offering potentially valuable insurance against a 
very adverse outcome.  Finally, a number of partic ipants expressed an inclination to engage in 
additional asset purchases at the December meeti ng but elected to wait un til the current meeting 
and the release of the Committee’s consensus statement about the framework for monetary 
policy. 
To provide additional accommodation, Alternative A would both adjust the forward 
guidance, as in the more explicit version of  Alternative B, and announce a new MBS purchase 
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 22 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
program.  Two variants of the asset purchase program are presented.  Under the first, the 
Committee would announce its intention to purchase up to $500 billion in MBS; under the 
second, the Committee would announce a flow of pur chases of MBS, initially at a rate of $40 
billion per month.  A purchase program in MBS, ra ther than Treasury securi ties, could be seen as 
preferable because the housing market continues to be depressed.  Focusing on MBS would not only ease broad financial market conditions, but would also likely spur additional easing in 
financing conditions in the housing sector.  The Committee may prefer a large, discrete purchase 
program that entails a specific am ount of planned purchases if it be lieves that such a program is 
appropriately calibrated to the ne eds of the economy or if it believes that future adjustments to 
the size of the program, if needed, could be made  relatively easily.  Memb ers may prefer a more 
flexible, flow-based program if they believe that such an approach would provide greater opportunity to tailor the ultim ate size of the purchase program to the evolving economic 
outlook.
4  
As noted above, the s
taff estimates that such a program would result in modest additional 
progress toward both of the Commit tee’s goals, with a reduction in the unem ployment rate of 
about ¼ of a percentage point and an  increase in inflation of a bit less.  In the near term, Federal 
Reserve income would be boosted by an expanded  securities portfolio.  In the longer run, the 
larger balance sheet would expose the Federal Reserve to greater in terest rate risk; however even 
under a scenario in which interest rates are 100 basis points hi gher than in the baseline scenario, 
the Federal Reserve would continue to make remittances to the Treasury. 
Either variant of the purchase program woul d be coupled with an adjustment to the 
forward guidance for the expected path of the fe deral funds rate along the lines of the explicit 
conditional approach shown in Alternative B.  The Committee would state that the federal funds 
rate would likely remain at its current exceptionally low level so long as the unemployment rate remained above 6½ percent, inflation was projected to come in either below or close to 2 percent, and longer-term infla tion expectations remained we ll anchored.  The choice of 6½ 
percent for the unemployment rate threshold would reflect a step in the direction of increased 
commitment.  For example, in the constrained op timal control simulation, in which the central 
bank is able to credibly commit to a path for pol icy, the federal funds rate  is not increased from  
4 For a more complete discussion of the considerations for discrete and flow-based purchase programs and 
potential communication challenges, see the memo “Alterna tive Approaches to Additional Asset Purchases” (Seth 
Carpenter, Jane Ihrig, David López-Salido, and Edward Nelson of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and 
Matthew Raskin and Julie Remache of the Federal Reserv e Bank of New York) that was sent to the Committee on 
January 18, 2012. 
Alternatives   
 
                                                  
 
  
  
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 23 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
its current level until the unemployment rate falls below 6 percent in mid-2016.  The more 
aggressive forward guidance in Alternative A would provide additional monetary policy 
accommodation on top of the new LSAP program.  The result would be a somewhat greater 
boost to economic activity and inflation over coming quarters.   
Even if policymakers would prefer to wa it for greater clarity on the outlook for the 
economy be
fore engaging in additional asset pur chases, they may nevertheless conclude that 
additional purchases were appr opriate at this meeting because they are concerned about 
downside risks to economic activity.  Participants may judge that any further deterioration of 
economic conditions would be extremely costly, given the elevated level of the unemployment 
rate and projections of inflation that remain be low the levels the Committee considers consistent 
with its objectives for a substantial period, as  depicted in the “Disinflation” alternative 
simulation.  In addition, given the reserve draining  tools at the Committee’s disposal and the fact 
that purchase programs of either variety could be reduced or stopped if deemed appropriate, 
participants may see little cost to embarking on additional purcha ses, given that their effects 
could be reversed if economic developmen ts suggested doing so was appropriate. 
A statement along the lines of that in Alternative A would surprise financial market 
participants.  Although around half of  the respondents to the Desk survey expect some additional 
asset purchases over the next ye ar, virtually none antic ipate the announcement of such a program  
at the current meeting.  In addition, while the survey suggests that some adjustment to the 
forward guidance is anticipated, the language  in A would be more accommodative than 
expected.  Taken together, the path of expected  short rates and term premiums would both likely 
decline some, implying a fall in longer-term interest rates.  In additi on, equity markets would 
probably rally some, and the foreign exchange va lue of the dollar would tend to decline.  The 
movement equity prices could be attenuated some what, however, if market participants read the 
statement overall as suggesting that the Co mmittee’s assessment of the economic outlook had 
been marked down significantly. 
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Policymakers may view the information r eceived since the December meeting as 
indicating that the econo mic recovery has strengthened, sugg esting that less monetary policy 
accommodation will be necessary to support progress toward the Committee’s goals, as in Alternative C.  Although the unemployment rate remains elevated by historical standards, it has 
declined noticeably in recent months, payroll empl oyment continues to rise, and initial claims for 
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 24 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
unemployment benefits have trended lower.  Household spending continues to expand, and 
notwithstanding its recent slowing, busine ss fixed investment is still rising. 
Against this backdrop, and coupled with the f act that sentiment surrounding financial and 
fiscal conditions in Europe a ppear to have im
proved, at leas t slightly, members may see the 
medium-run outlook for the economy as brighter than a few months ago, as in the “Stronger 
recovery” alternative simulation presented in the Tealbook.  Alte rnatively, members may believe 
that the current degree of monetary accommodation is more likely to lead to inflationary 
pressures and risks destabilizing in flation expectations, rather th an an appreciable improvement 
in the economic outlook, perhaps as contemplat ed in the “Weaker s upply side” alternative 
simulation.  In either case, Committee members ma y judge it appropriate to begin the process of 
unwinding the current degree of monetary policy accommodation, and in particular, may wish to 
cut in half the total amount of  purchases and sales to be conducted under the MEP.  Members 
may also be concerned that inflationary pressure s could build rapidly and, as a result, may wish 
to signal clearly to markets that  the target for the federal funds  rate might be increased sooner 
than previously anticipated if inflation b ecame a significant concern.  The Committee could 
signal such vigilance by changing the forward gui dance to indicate that economic conditions are 
likely to warrant the current low range for the fede ral funds rate “for an extended period” rather 
than “at least through mid-2013” as in the Decem ber statement.  This formulation may have 
additional appeal if participants viewed the re ference to a specific date in the Committee’s 
statement as problematic.  Although providing a sp ecific date in the forward guidance may have 
been useful in previous announcements to give the public a bette r understanding of the 
Committee’s reaction function, participants’ projectio ns for the federal funds rate are now being 
published in the Summary of Economic Projections, and so there may be no additional benefit to 
including a date in the statement. 
A statement along the lines of Alternative C would greatly surprise markets.  The Desk’s 
survey of primary dealers does not suggest that  any respondents anticipate a change to the 
statement in the direction of tightening; to the contrary, the survey repor ts a fairly widespread 
anticipation of some easing of the stance of the policy in coming months.  As a result, a 
statement along the lines of Alternative C would ge nerate a substantial revi sion to the anticipated 
path for the federal funds rate and for the Federa l Reserve’s balance sheet policies, and interest 
rates along the yield curve would ri se noticeably.  Equity prices w ould likely fall, and the foreign 
exchange value of the dollar would probably rise. 
Alternatives   
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 25 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
LONG-RUN  PROJECTIONS OF  THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE  
The staff has prepared three scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy alternatives A, B, and C.   The scenario for Alternative A reflects a $500 
billion agency MBS purchase program included in paragraph 3 of the draft statement for that 
alternative, but is consistent with the open-ended purchase program  in paragraph 3’ if purchases 
last, and are expected to last , for one year.  Projections under each scenario are based on 
assumptions about the trajectory of various com ponents of the balance shee t.  Details of these 
assumptions, as well as projections for each majo r component of the balance sheet, can be found 
in Explanatory Note C.  
For the balance sheet scenar io that corresponds to Alte rnative B, the Committee is 
assum
ed to complete the maturity extension program (MEP) that it announced in September, 
purchasing a total of $400 billion (par value) of Tr easury securities with re maining maturities of 
six years or more and selling the same par amount of securities with remaining maturities of three years or less by the end of June 2012.  The Committee also continues to reinvest principal payments from its holdings of agency debt a nd MBS into agency MBS,  while principal from  
maturing Treasury securities is reinvested at auction according to the Desk’s current practice 
(that is, reinvesting roughly propor tionally across all Treasury securi ties that are being issued on 
the date the securities mature).   These policy choices would keep  System Open Market Account 
(SOMA) securities holdings roughly constant at about $2.6 trillion.  All reinvestment is assumed 
Alternatives   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 26 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
to cease in April 2014, six months before the first increase in the ta rget federal funds rate in the 
staff economic forecast, and then the balance sheet begins to contract.  In April 2015, the 
Committee begins to sell its rema ining holdings of agency MBS and agency debt securities at a 
pace that reduces the amount of these securities in the portfolio to zero in  five years—that is, by 
March 2020.5  The combination of no reinvestment and th e sale of agency securities normalizes 
the size of the balance sheet by September 2017. 6,7  The balance sheet then begins to expand, 
with increases in SOMA holdings essentially matc hing the growth of Federal Reserve capital and 
notes in circulation.  The balance sheet re aches a size of $2 tri llion by the end of 2020. 
In the scenario for Alternative A, the Co mmittee is assumed not only to complete the 
MEP and continue the current reinvestment st rategy but also to pur chase an additional $500 
billion of agency MBS, at a pace of about $40 billion per month beginning in February 2012 and 
extending through January 2013.  In th is scenario, total assets peak at $3.4 trillion in June 2013, 
while SOMA securities holdings peak at $3.1 tr illion in March 2014.  As in Alternative B, 
reinvestment ends in April 2014, the target federa l funds rate lifts off in October 2014, sales of 
agency securities commence in April 2015, and holdi ngs of agency securities fall to zero over 
five years.8  The additional purchases of agen cy MBS under Alternative A postpone the 
normalization of the size of the balance sheet until February 2 018, five months later than under 
Alternative B.  
For the scenario that corresponds to Altern ative C, the Committee continues its current 
reinvestment policy but scales back the MEP to $200 billion and completes these operations in 
February 2012.  In this scenari o, the federal funds rate lifts of f at the beginning of 2013, about a 
year and a half earlier than assumed in the ot her alternatives and, corr espondingly, reinvestment 
5 Given the maturity schedule of the agency debt securities held in the SOMA, the volume of sales 
necessary to reduce holdings of these securities to zero over the five-year period is minimal. 
6 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurcha se agreements and the Term Deposit Facility) are not 
modeled in any of the scenarios presented. Use of these tools would result in a shift in the composition of Federal 
Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corre sponding increase in reverse repurchase agreements or 
term deposits—but would not produce an overall change in the size of the balance sheet. 
7 The projected timing of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet depends importantly on the level 
of reserve balances that is assumed to be necessary to c onduct monetary policy; currently we assume that level of 
reserve balances to be $25 billion.  A higher demand for rese rve balances would, all else equal, lead to an earlier 
normalization of the size of the balance sheet. 
8 Under Reserve Bank accounting, losses on the SOMA po rtfolio are only realized when securities are sold. 
Under the current projections, losses are projected to be smaller than net earnings.  Considerable uncertainty 
surrounds these projections, however, and under plausible assumptions, losses could exceed earnings; in that case, 
remittances to the Treasury would cease and a deferred asse t would be booked. 
Alternatives   
 
                                                  
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 27 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
of principal from maturi ng or prepaying securities ends earlier, in mid-2012.9  Sales of agency 
securities also commence earlie r, in mid-2013.  The size of the balance sheet is normalized in 
mid-2016, almost a year and a half sooner than un der Alternative B, primarily reflecting the 
earlier assumed liftoff date for th e federal funds rate and thus the earlier halt to reinvestment of 
principal and an earlier start of asset sales.  
The size of the balance sheet normalizes in the same  month under A lternative B as it did 
in the December Tealbook baseline.  From Febr uary 2018 onward, under all scenarios, the paths 
for total assets in the current projections align with the baselin e path in the December Tealbook. 
On the liability side of the balance sheet, the forecasted path for reserve balances for 
Alternative B is roughly unchanged from the prev ious Tealbook’s baseline
.  Under Alternative 
A, reserve balances peak at $2.1 trillion—almos t $500 billion higher than  in Alternative B—by 
the end of the new large scale asset purchase program.  
In the scenario corresponding to Alternative B, the monetary base is  projected to expand 
in 2012 before beginning to contract in the s econd quarter of 2013 and to continue shrinking 
through the third quarter of 2017, re flecting the decline in reserv e balances.  Starting in the 
fourth quarter of 2017, after reserve balances are assumed to have stabil ized at $25 billion, the 
monetary base expands again, in line with the gr owth of Federal Reserve notes in circulation.  
The monetary base under Alternative A expands al ong with the rise in re serve balances that 
comes from the additional asset purchases.  As th e balance sheet is norma lized, it follows a path 
similar to that in Alternative B.  Under Altern ative C, the contraction in the monetary base 
begins sooner, mirroring the earlier no rmalization in the balance sheet.  
9 The prepayment paths for agency MBS holdings an d the premiums calculated under Alternative C are 
based on the interest rate path used in Alternative B.  This simplifying assumption likely overstates somewhat both 
prepayments on MBS, which are reinvested into new MBS with longer expected maturities until the reinvestment 
policy ceases, and premiums on all secur ities in Alternative C.  As a result, the size of the balance sheet is likely 
larger, and the date of normalization is likely later than wo uld be the case if the interest rate path was recalibrated 
based on this scenario. 
Alternatives   
 
  
                                                 
 
  
  
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 28 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Jan-11 23.3 23.3 23.3 23.3 
Feb-11 57.6 57.6 57.6 57.6 
Mar-11 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 
Apr-11 74.4 74.4 74.4 74.4 
May-11 42.1 42.1 42.1 42.1 
Jun-11 35.9 35.9 35.9 35.9 
Jul-11 27.0 27.0 27.0 27.0 
Aug-11 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 
Sep-11 -10.6 -10.6 -10.6 -10.6 
Oct-11 -4.5 -4.5 -4.5 -4.5 
Nov-11 -8.0 -8.0 -8.0 -8.0 
Dec-11 -4.5 -4.5 -4.5 12.1 
Jan-12 5.8 5.9 5.7 15.1 
Feb-12 22.7 22.4 21.9 10.3 
Mar-12 4.0 7.1 1.9 4.4 
Apr-12 -38.5 -26.1 -41.4 -29.5 
May-12 -2.2 17.1 -4.9 0.9 
Jun-12 18.3 37.9 15.8 15.4 
2011 Q1 36.8 36.8 36.8 36.8 
2011 Q2 69.3 69.3 69.3 69.3 
2011 Q3 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 
2011 Q4 -5.9 -5.9 -5.9 -4.1 
2012 Q1 5.5 5.8 5.1 9.7 
2012 Q2 -8.1 3.2 -10.4 -5.9 
2012 Q3 5.6 25.2 -2.7 4.7 
2012 Q4 5.5 23.4 -8.5 5.4 
2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 2011 32.9 32.9 32.9 33.5 
2012 2.1 15.1 -4.1 3.5 
2013 0.9 6.8 -11.4 0.5 
2014 -4.8 -4.6 -14.5 -4.8 
2015 -11.4 -12.0 -16.1 -11.3 
2016 -19.8 -20.3 -10.5 -19.6 
Note: Not seasonally adjusted. Annual - Q4 to Q4 Monthly Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternative B Alternative A 
Percent, annual rate Alternative C Memo : 
December 
Tealbook 
Quarterly 
Alternatives   
 
      
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 29 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
DEBT,  BANK  CREDIT ,  AND  MONEY FORECASTS  
The staff projects that domestic nonfinancial sector debt will in crease at an annual rate of 
4¼ percent in 2012, reflecting con tinued rapid expansion in federal government debt and a 
modest rise in private nonfinancial debt.  Debt  is expected to increase at a 4 percent pace in 
2013, as slower growth in federal debt is offset by more rapid growth in private debt.  
Nonfinancial business debt expands at a modest pace over the forecast period, in part to finance 
increases in capital expenditures.  We project gr owth of household debt to remain fairly sluggish 
throughout the forecast horizon, reaching only 1½ percent in 2013.  Despite historically low 
mortgage rates, we expect home mortgage debt to  continue to contract through early next year, 
reflecting stringent lending standard s and further declines in house prices.  Consumer credit rises 
at a moderate pace through the first half of th is year and then accelerates gradually over the 
remainder of the forecast period, supported by projected increases in spending on consumer 
durables and improvements in credit availability.   
The staff expects that commercial bank credit will increase moderately ov er the forecast 
period.  Core loans—which include commercial a nd industrial (C&I), real  estate, and consumer 
loans—are projected to expand modestly during 2012 and 2013, consistent with the anticipated 
gradual improvements in economic activity, cr edit quality, and banks’ w illingness to lend over 
that period.  C&I loans are proj ected to increase steadily over th e forecast horizon.  Results from  
the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Surv ey on Bank Lending Practices indicate that such 
lending has been boosted recently as a result of  decreased competition from European banks and 
their affiliates and subsidiaries, a phenomenon that we expect to continue in the near term.  In 
contrast, commercial real estate loans are projec ted to contract, primarily because high vacancy 
rates and depressed prices for co mmercial properties and the poor credit quality of existing loans 
are likely to continue to we igh on activity in this sector.  As for lending to households, 
residential real estate loans on banks’ books are likely to move up only slightly over the forecast 
period while consumer loans increase moderately  over the next two years.  Banks’ securities 
holdings are forecast to rise at a moderate p ace, driven by steady growth in core deposits 
combined with only modest expansion in bank loans. 
The staff forecasts that M2, which expanded at  a robust rate in 2011, will rise much more 
slowly in 2012, at a pace that is noticeably above that of nominal income.  Continued uncertainty 
about European financial developments, an outlo ok for moderate economic growth, and very low 
short-term market interest rates will likely encourage investors to maintain their current elevated  
portfolio allocations to M2 assets this year.  Su bsequently, as financial strains begin to fade and 
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 30 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
investors slowly shift their portfolios toward riskie r assets, the rise in M2 is expected to slow 
further to a pace appreciably  be low that of nominal GDP.  The expansion in M2 in 2013 is also 
held down by the expiration of unlimited FDIC  insurance on non-interest bearing demand 
deposits at the end of 2012.  Turning to the co mponents of M2, liquid deposits, which include 
demand deposits, are projected to expand moderately until the first qua rter of 2013, but then 
slow.  Similarly, after increasing moderately th rough the end of 2012, retail money funds start to 
contract at the beginning of 2013.  By contrast, small time depos its are projected to contract 
throughout the forecast period.  Meanwhile, currency is  expected to rise at a pace slightly greater 
than its historical average due to strong intern ational demand associated with global financial 
uncertainty.   
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 31 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast* 
Jun-11 9.9 
Jul-11 22.7 
Aug-11 24.5 
Sep-11 2.5 
Oct-11 6.0 
Nov-11 5.8 
Dec-11 5.6 
Jan-12 15.9 
Feb-12 7.0 
Mar-12 3.5 
Apr-12 3.1 
May-12 3.1 
Jun-12 3.1 
Quarterly Growth Rates 
2011 Q3 16.4 
2011 Q4 7.2 
2012 Q1 9.2 
2012 Q2 3.6 
Annual Growth Rates 
2010 3.1 
2011 9.5 
2012 5.3 
2013 1.9 
* This forecast is consistent with nominal G DP and interest rates in the Tealbook 
forecast. Actual data through December 2011; projections thereafter. Growth Rates for M2 
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
Alternatives   
 
  
     
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 32 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
DIRECTIVE  
The directive that was issued in December  is given below, followed by drafts for a 
January directive that correspond to each of the policy alternatives.  Under the directive for 
Alternative B, the Desk would be instructed to leave the total face value of domestic securities in 
the SOMA about unchanged.  Under Alternativ e A, the Committee would instruct the Desk 
either to execute purchases of agency MBS in or der to raise the total f ace value of the domestic 
securities holdings to about $3.1 trillion by the end of January 2013, or to purchase agency MBS 
in order to raise the face valu e of holdings of domestic secur ities by approximately $40 billion 
per month until instructed otherwise.  In addition,  the directives for Alternatives A and B would 
instruct the Desk to take appr opriate steps to complete by the end of June 2012 the $400 billion 
maturity extension program that was announced last  September.  The directive for Alternative C 
would instruct the Desk to limit the amounts of purchases and sales associated with the maturity 
extension program to $200 billion each and to comp lete these operations by the end of February.  
All of the draft directives instruct the Desk to continue the current practice of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at au ction and of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt 
and agency MBS in agency MBS. 
December 2011 Directive  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output.  To further its long-run objectives, the Committee seeks conditions in rese rve markets consistent with federal funds 
trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Co mmittee directs the Desk to continue the maturity 
extension program it began in September to  purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years with a total face value 
of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a 
total face value of $400 billion.  The Committee also  directs the Desk to maintain its existing 
policies of rolling over maturing Tr easury securities into new issues  and of reinvesting principal 
payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market 
Account in agency mortgage-backed securities in order to maintain the total face value of 
domestic securities at approximate ly $2.6 trillion.  The Committee di rects the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to facilitate  settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS 
transactions.  The System Open Market Acc ount Manager and the Secr etary will keep the 
Committee informed of ongoing developments regard ing the System’s balance sheet that could 
affect the attainment over time of the Comm ittee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability.  
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 33 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
January 2012 Directiv e—Alternative A  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output.  To further its long-run 
objectives, the Committee seeks conditions in rese rve markets consistent with federal funds 
trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Co mmittee directs the Desk to continue the maturity 
extension program it began in September to  purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years with a total face value 
of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a 
total face value of $400 billion.  [ The Committee also directs th e Desk to execute purchases 
of agency mortgage-backed securities by the end of January 2013 in order to increase the 
total face value of domestic securities held  in the System Open Market Account to 
approximately $3.1 trillion.  | The Committee also directs the Desk to execute purchases of 
agency mortgage-backed securities in order to  increase the total face value of domestic 
securities held in the System Open Mark et Account by approximately $40 billion per 
month.  ] The Committee also directs the Desk to main tain its existing polic ies of rolling over 
maturing Treasury securities into new issues and of reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in agency 
mortgage-backed securities in order to maintain the total face value of domestic securities at 
approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Committee directs the Desk  to engage in dollar roll and 
coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
MBS transactions.  The System Open Market Ac count Manager and the S ecretary will keep the 
Committee informed of ongoing developments regard ing the System’s balance sheet that could 
affect the attainment over time of the Comm ittee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 34 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
January 2012 Directiv e—Alternative B  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output.  To further its long-run 
objectives, the Committee seeks conditions in rese rve markets consistent with federal funds 
trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Co mmittee directs the Desk to continue the maturity 
extension program it began in September to  purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years with a total face value 
of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a 
total face value of $400 billion.  The Committee also  directs the Desk to maintain its existing 
policies of rolling over maturing Tr easury securities into new issues  and of reinvesting principal 
payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in agency mortgage-backed securities in order to maintain the total face value of 
domestic securities at approximate ly $2.6 trillion.  The Committee di rects the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to facilitate  settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS 
transactions.  The System Open Market Acc ount Manager and the Secr etary will keep the 
Committee informed of ongoing developments regard ing the System’s balance sheet that could 
affect the attainment over time of the Comm ittee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 35 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
January 2012 Directiv e—Alternative C  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks mone tary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output.  To further its long-run 
objectives, the Committee seeks conditions in rese rve markets consistent with federal funds 
trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to continue modify the 
maturity extension program it began in September so as to purchase, by the end of June 
February  2012, Treasury securities with remaining ma turities of approximately 6 years to 30 
years with a tota l face value of $400 $200 billion, and to sell Treasur y securities with remaining 
maturities of 3 years or less with a total face value of $400 $200 billion.  The Committee also 
directs the Desk to maintain its existing policie s of rolling over maturing Tr easury securities into 
new issues and of reinvesting principal paymen ts on all agency debt and agency mortgage-
backed securities in the System Open Market Account in agency mortga ge-backed securities in 
order to maintain the total face value of domes tic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  The 
Committee directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll transactions as necessary to facilitate 
settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.  The System Open Market 
Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments 
regarding the System’s balance sheet that co uld affect the attainment over time of the 
Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
   
  
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 36 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Explanatory Notes 
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The concepts of the equilibrium real rate  reported in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate,” are defined as the level of the real federal funds rate th at is consistent with 
output at potential within a specified time horizon.  The short-run equilibrium rate is defined as 
the rate that would close the output gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal funds rate 
projected to prevail in seven years, under the assu mption that monetary policy acts to bring actual 
and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps them equal thereafter. 
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy— 
depend on data for major spending cat egories, prices and wages, and the 
nominal federal funds rate as well as the model’s structure and estimate of the output gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the exogenous variables in the extended baseline 
forecast. 
Explanatory Notes  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 37 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor, arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the federal 
funds rate and the trailing four-qua rter change in the core PCE pri ce index.  The federal funds rate 
is specified as the target federal funds rate (or th e center of the target range, if there is a target 
range), on the Tealbook Book B publication date.  
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on t he proxies used for expected inflation.  
The table below shows estimates of the real federal funds rates using alternative proxies: lagged 
core PCE inflation, which is used to construct th e actual real federal funds rate shown in the table 
that displays the r* measures; lagged four-quarter headline PCE inflation; and projected four-
quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  The table also displays the Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate and the average of the projected real federal funds rate  over the next twelve quarters using each of the 
different proxies for expected inflation.  
Proxy used for  
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current val
ue) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Projected real 
funds rate 
(twelve-quarter-
ahead average) 
Lagged core inflation 1.6 3.2 1.3 
Lagged headline 
inflation 2.4 3.2 1.3 
Projected headline inflation 1.3 3.1 1.2 
Explanatory Notes       
   
  
 
 
    
    
    
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 38 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS  
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
the forecast of inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap estimate 
௧ାଵݕ  and כ
௧െ  ݕ௧ݕ for the current period as well as its one quarter ahead forecast ( |௧ െ ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ ,)and 
the forecast of three-quarter-ahead annual average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ െ 
Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כ  .)The assumed value of policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is denoted π*.  The 
outcome-based and forecast-based rules were estimated using real-time data over the sample 
1988:1 2006:4; each specification was chosen using th e Bayesian information criterion.  Each 
rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the inte rcept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point 
increments during the first three quarters of 1998.   The first two simple rules were proposed by 
Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the first-difference rule do not depend on assumptions 
regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see Orphanides (2003). 
Outcome-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
Forecast-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
  ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
First-difference rule ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ 
FRB/US  MODEL SIMULATIONS  
Prescriptions from the outcome-based rule are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969 2009.  
Explanatory Notes       
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
        
  
        
 
 
   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 39 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL  MARKETS  
The expected funds rate path is based on quotes for federal funds and forward rate 
agreements as well as implied three-month fo rward rates from swaps, and the confidence 
intervals for this path are constructed using prices of interest rate  caps.  The computations use the 
staff’s baseline assumptions about term  premiums.  
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES  
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap.  The first-difference rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the estimated forecast-based 
rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-hand- side variable.  When the Tealbook is published 
early in the quarter, the lines denoted “Previous  Tealbook” report rule prescriptions based on the 
previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in  
the previous quarter.  When the Tealbook is publ ished late in the quarter, the lines denoted 
“Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescrip tions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff 
outlook, but jumping off from th e average value for the policy rate thus far this quarter. 
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John  B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214.  
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Tay
lor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341.  
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary  Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
Explanatory Notes       
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 40 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
C. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section titled “Long-Run Projections of the Bala nce Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are construc ted at a monthly frequency from January 2012 
to December 2020.  The few balance sheet items that are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level observed on December 31, 2011.  The projections 
for all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the tables that 
follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projections for the scenarios corresponding to Alternatives A and B 
assume that the target federal funds rate begins to increase in October 2014, consistent with the 
monetary policy path in the Tealbook extension derived from the outcome-based rule, while the projection for the scenario corresponding to Altern ative C assumes the target rate lifts off in 
January 2013.  The balance sheet projections assume  that no use of short-term draining tools is 
necessary to achieve the projected path for the federal funds rate.
1  
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency Mortgage-Backe d Securities (MBS), and Agency Debt 
Securities  
  The assumptions under Alternative B are: 
o  Over the nine months beginning in October 2011, the FOMC is assumed to 
purchase $400 billion in par value of Treasury securities with remaining 
maturities of six years or more and sell the same par amount of Treasury  
securities with remaining maturities of three years or less.  The FOMC will reinvest the proceeds from  principal pa yments on its agency securities holdings 
primarily in newly issued agency MBS in the To-Be-Announced (TBA) market.  
Treasury securities are rolled over at auc tion according to the Desk’s current 
practice (that is, reinvesting roughly  proportionally across all Treasury securities 
that are being issued on the date the securities mature).  
1 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities would change: Increases in term deposits and reverse 
repurchase agreements cause reserve balances to fall.   Presumably, these draining tools would be wound 
down as the balance sheet returns to its steady state growth path, so that the projected paths for Treasury 
securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
Explanatory Notes       
                                                  
  
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 41 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
o  Principal payments from Treasury securiti es and agency MBS and agency debt 
securities 
are reinvested until April 2014—six months prior to the assumed 
increase in the target federal funds rate.2  
o  The Federal Reserve begins to sell agen cy MBS and agency  debt securities in 
April 2015, roughly six months after the assumed date of the first increase in the 
target federal funds rate.  Holdings of  agency securities are reduced over five 
years and reach zero by March 2020. 
o  For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment is based on staff models using estimates 
of housing market factors from one of the program’s investment managers, long-
run average prepayment speeds of MBS, and interest rate projections from the Tealbook.
3  The projected rate of prepayment  is sensitive to these underlying 
assumptions. 
  In the scenario corresponding to Alternativ e A, the Committee is assume d to begin 
purchasing current coupon agency MBS in Febr uary 2012 at a rate of about $40 billion 
per month through January 2013 for a total $500 billion.  In addition, the Committee is expected to complete the MEP and maintain its  policies of reinvesting principal payments 
from its holdings of agency securities into agency MBS and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  As in the base line, reinvestment ends in April 2014—six 
months prior to the assumed increase in th e federal funds rate—and agency securities 
sales begin in April 2015, continuing for five years.  
 In the scenario corresponding to Alternative C,  the Committee is expected to limit its 
previously announced MEP so that it purch ases $200 billion in long-term securities and 
sells $200 billion in short-term securities, completing operations in February  2012.  
Principal payments from Treasury securities con tinue to be reinvested at auction, and 
principal payments from agency MBS and agency  debt securities are reinvested in agency 
MBS until July 2012, six months prior to th e assumed increase in the federal funds rate.  
Sales of agency securities begin in July  2013, and continue for five years. 
  Because current and expected near-term ra tes are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at which these securities are purchased will generally exceed their face value, with  a larger premium for longer-maturity  
securities.  As a result, although the par va lue of securities holdings remains constant 
under the MEP, premiums associated with th e securities, and hence total assets, will rise 
by about $30 billion.  Reserve balances will increase by the same amount.   
  The large-scale asset purchase program in  Alternative A would put downward pressure 
on market interest rates, in particular mortgage rates, and result in more MBS 
2 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflec t interest rates as of January 18, 2012. 
3 Projected prepayments on the existing stock of  agency MBS are from an FRBNY staff model 
that is based on the prepayment model of one of the investment managers; projected prepayments 
associated with agency MBS expected to be purchased in  the future rely on a Board model that is based on 
the Bond Market Association prepayment model. 
Explanatory Notes       
  
                                                 
  
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 42 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
prepayments than in the baseline.  The lower path for in terest rates also leads to 
purchases of Treasury securities made at prices that include a greater net premium  
relative to their face valu e than in the baseline. 
  The current and near-term market value of agency MBS is assumed to be four percent 
above its face value.  As a result, for A lternative A, premiums will rise by roughly $20 
billion relative to the baseline, reflecting th e $500 billion LSAP program.  This will boost 
total assets and reserve balances by
 the same amount.  
  The level of central bank liquidity swaps is assumed to be elevated through March 2012, 
reflecting the results of the recent 84-day fo reign central bank swap auctions, but then 
return to zero in April 2012. 
  In all scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  Once reserve 
balances drop to this level, the Desk first  purchases Treasury bills to maintain this level 
of reserve balances going forward.  Purchases of bills continue until such securities 
comprise one-third of the Federal Reserve’s total Treasury securities holdings—about the average share prior to the crisis.  Once this share is reached, the Federal Reserve buys  
coupon securities in addition to bills to main tain an approximate composition of the 
portfolio of one-third bills and two-thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
  Credit through the Term  Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) declines to zero 
by the end of 2015, reflecting loan ma
turities and prepayments. 
  The assets held by TALF LLC remain at about  $1 billion through 2014  before declining 
to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF LLC consist of investments of commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in connec tion with a decision of a borrower to not 
repay a TALF loan.  
  The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC, Maid en Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 
decline to zero gradually  over time.  
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
  Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for m oney stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2013.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as in the extended Tealbook projection.  
 Over the next three months, the level of reverse repurchase agreements is assumed to 
decline to $70 billion, about the average level observed over the past three years. 
Explanatory Notes       
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 43 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
  The U.S. Treasury’s General Account (TGA) follows the staff forecast through June 
2012
.4  Then, the TGA slowly drops back to its historical target level of $5 billion by  
January 2013 as it is assumed that the Treasu ry will implement a new cash management 
system and invest funds in excess of $5 billion.   The TGA remains constant at $5 billion 
over the remainder of the forecast period. 
  We maintain the Supplementary  Financi ng Acc ount (SFA) balance at its current level of 
zero throughout the forecast. 
  Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
  In general, increases in the level of Federa l Reserve assets are matched by  higher levels 
of reserve balances.  Increases in the levels  of liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or other liabilities, or increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, 
drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 b illion, purchases of Treasury securities are 
assumed in order to maintain th at level of reserve balances.  
  In the event that a Federal Reserve Bank’s earnings fall short of the amount necessary to cover operating costs, pay  dividends, and equa te surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred 
asset would be recorded.  This deferred asset is recorded in lieu of reducing the Reserve 
Bank’s capital and is reported on the liability  side of the balance sheet as “Interest on 
Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”   This liability takes on a positive value 
when weekly  cumulative earnings have not yet been distributed to the Treasury, while 
this liability takes on a negative value when earnings fall short of the expenses listed above.  In the projections, System-wide earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses, and this line item is set to zero. 
4 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of 
both the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Treasury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are only $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is used as a 
proxy for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes       
  
                                                 
  
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 44 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A
Billions of dollars
Dec 31, 2011 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,921 3,242 3,199 2,272 1,810 2,017
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 100 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 100 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 9 3 1 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 9 3 1 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 34 29 21 11 7 4
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC34 29 21 11 7 4
Securities held outright 2,605 2,982 2,970 2,092 1,665 1,893
U.S. Treasury securities 1,663 1,651 1,600 1,232 1,338 1,893
Agency debt securities 104 77 39 16 2 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 838 1,255 1,331 843 324 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 171 227 206 169 138 120
Total liabilities 2,867 3,180 3,117 2,164 1,667 1,828
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,034 1,111 1,245 1,396 1,551 1,712
Reverse repurchase agreements 100 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,713 1,982 1,786 683 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,562 1,967 1,781 678 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 86 16 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 65 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury2 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 54 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 45 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative B
Billions of dollars
Dec 31, 2011 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,921 2,838 2,700 1,954 1,810 2,017
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 100 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 100 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 9 3 1 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 9 3 1 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 34 29 21 11 7 4
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC34 29 21 11 7 4
Securities held outright 2,605 2,600 2,495 1,789 1,673 1,896
U.S. Treasury securities 1,663 1,651 1,600 1,232 1,462 1,896
Agency debt securities 104 77 39 16 2 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 838 873 856 540 208 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 171 205 183 154 130 117
Total liabilities 2,867 2,776 2,618 1,846 1,667 1,828
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,034 1,111 1,245 1,396 1,551 1,712
Reverse repurchase agreements 100 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,713 1,579 1,287 364 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,562 1,563 1,282 359 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 86 16 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 65 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury2 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 54 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 46 of 47
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
Billions of dollars
Dec 31, 2011 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,921 2,634 2,025 1,620 1,810 2,017
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 100 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 100 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 9 3 1 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 9 3 1 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 34 29 16 11 7 4
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC34 29 16 11 7 4
Securities held outright 2,605 2,426 1,861 1,487 1,698 1,915
U.S. Treasury securities 1,663 1,590 1,341 1,265 1,698 1,915
Agency debt securities 104 77 39 16 0 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 838 760 482 206 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 171 175 146 121 104 98
Total liabilities 2,867 2,573 1,943 1,512 1,667 1,828
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,034 1,111 1,245 1,396 1,551 1,712
Reverse repurchase agreements 100 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,713 1,375 612 30 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,562 1,359 607 25 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 86 16 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 65 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury2 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 54 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
January 19, 2012
Page 47 of 47
Authorized for Public Release