 Prefatory Note 
 
 
T
he attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable p rovisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.  
Content last modified 02/03 /2017.   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 Class I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
August 4, 2011 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Strategies 
The staff’s estimates of short-run r*—the real federal funds rate that, if 
maintained, would return output to its poten tial in twelve quarter s—generally declined 
over the intermeeting period, in some cases subs tantially.  By historic al standards, these 
estimates of the equilibrium r eal federal funds rate remain low, and most are below the 
estimated actual real federal funds rate.  As shown in the first two columns of the table in 
the exhibit “Equilibrium Real Federal F unds Rate,” the estimates of short-run r* generated 
from the FRB/US model and the EDO model th at are conditioned on the staff estimates of 
the output gap (that is, the “T ealbook-consistent” estimates) decreased 110 and 220 basis 
points, respectively.  The downward revisions to r* reflect the staff’s assessment that the 
economic outlook has weakened, implying a generally more negative output gap 
projection than in th e previous Tealbook.1  Less dramatically, the estimate of short-run r*  
produced from the FRB/US model based on its own projections has declined by 10 basis 
points, while the estimates from the single- equation and small structural models—which 
are conditioned on the staff’s assessment of recent output gap behavior—have decreased 
by 70 and 50 basis points respectively.  The es timate generated by the EDO model using 
its own projections has remained unchanged as the effects of the recent weaker data are 
offset by a marginal strengthening in the model’s forecast for output growth. 
The staff foresees greater slack in labor and product markets over the next several 
years than it did in June, while the staff projections for inflation—core and headline— 
have remained largely unchanged over the medium-term.  Consequently, the policy 
prescriptions from optimal control simulations  of the FRB/US model taking account of the 
underlying economic conditions in the extended staff baseline projection now call for the 
federal funds rate to remain near zero for a ppreciably longer than reported in the previous 
Tealbook. 2  This result is shown in the exhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary 
Policy.” 
1 For a discussion of these revisions, see Book A of the Tealbook. 
2 The staff’s baseline forecast inco rporates the effects of the Fede ral Reserve’s recently completed 
large-scale asset purchase program, and these same e ffects have been incorporated into the optimal policy 
simulations. 
Strategies  
  
                                                 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 1 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
StrategiesClass I
 FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR) August 4, 2011
Page 2 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR) August 4, 2011
Page 3 of 50
Strategies
Authorized for Public Release
Beginning with this Tealbook, the optimal  control simulations use headline 
inflation, instead of core inflation, when evaluating policymakers’ objective function.3  As 
usual, the simulations are computed from  the FRB/US model under the assumption that 
policymakers place equal weight on keeping infl ation close to 2 percent, on keeping the 
unemployment rate close to the effectiv e NAIRU, and on minimizing changes in the 
federal funds rate.  Because the staff’s forecas ts of headline and core inflation are little 
different beyond the initial qua rters of the simulation, and because the optimal policy 
responses place only a small weight on the outlook for inflation and unemployment in the 
initial quarters, the results are little cha nged compared with the previous procedure. 
As has been true for some time, the simu lations indicate that the optimal path of 
the policy rate is affected  significantly by the lower-bound constraint on the nominal 
federal funds rate.  With this  constraint imposed, the funds rate does not begin to rise 
appreciably until early 2015, about four qua rters later than in the June Tealbook.  
Reflecting the weaker economic outlook—and despite the additional monetary stimulus 
provided in this simulation—the path for th e unemployment rate is  a bit higher for the 
next couple of years than the one shown in June, and headline inflation stays below the 
assumed 2 percent objective until the second quarter of 2015 (black solid lines).4  If the 
nominal funds rate could fall below zero, the optimal nominal funds ra te, according to this 
exercise, would reach almost negative 2¾ percent in 2012, before returning to positive 
values in the second half of 2014 (blue dashed  line), thereby delivering somewhat more 
favorable macroeconomic conditions than those depicted in the constrained simulation.  In 
the constrained simulation, policymakers can only provide additional stimulus by raising the funds rate later and more moderately once the economy recovers .  In this Tealbook, 
the constrained simulation raises the funds rate above its lower bound about two quarters 
3 To conform with the change in the simulation procedure, the simulations labeled “Previous 
Tealbook” in the exhibit are derived from calculations that employ the new loss function but are conditioned 
on the staff outlook in June.  On the other hand, the real federal funds rate paths displayed in the upper right panel of the exhibit continue to be calculated as the difference between the (nominal) federal funds rate and 
a four-quarter moving average of core PCE inflation, because the latter provides a less volatile measure of 
inflation expectations than would be the case using head line inflation.  (An alternative approach would be to 
define the real funds rate using projections of headline inflation, but doing so would make it difficult to 
compare the results in this exhibit with meas ures of the real rate reported elsewhere.) 
4As in June, the unemployment rate remains above the staff’s estimate of the effective NAIRU until 
the end of 2014 in the constrained optimal control simulation.  The staff’s estima te of the effective NAIRU 
falls from 6½ percent in the current quarter to 6 percen t by the first quarter of 2013, and then to 5¼ percent 
by the end of 2015, as the extended unemployment benefits expire and labor market functioning gradually improves. 
Strategies   
                                                 
   
 
 
   
     
  
   
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 4 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
later than in the unconstraine d case, and the funds rate st ays about 1 percentage point 
lower in the following four quarters.5    
As shown in the exhibit “Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations for the 
Federal Funds Rate,” the expected funds ra te implied by the estimated outcome-based 
policy rule moves appreciably above its eff ective lower bound in the fourth quarter of  
2013, about three quarters later th an in the previous Tealbook.6  In addition, the rule 
prescribes a considerably lowe r path for the policy rate in 2013 and 2014 than in the June 
Tealbook, reflecting the staff’s revised projections for the output gap and real GDP 
growth.   
As shown to the right, information from fi nancial markets suggests that investors’  
expectations for the path of the federal funds rate also ha ve shifted down noticeably since 
the last Tealbook.  The expected path for th e federal funds implied by futures and swap 
quotes moves above the current target range by mid-2013, quite a bit late r than in the June 
Tealbook.  Thereafter, the funds rate rises gradually toward 1¼ percent by the end of 
2014, about 65 basis points lower th an in the previous Tealbook. 
The lower panel of the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from simple policy 
rules.7  As shown in the left-hand columns, pres criptions for the federal funds rate from 
most of the rules remain at or near th e effective lower bound.  The right-hand columns 
display the prescriptions that would arise from these rules in the absence of the lower-
bound constraint.  Reflecting th e widening in the staff’s out put gap forecasts, all rules 
prescribe a lower funds rate th an in June, and most of the unconstrained prescriptions take 
values that are below the effective lowe r bound.  Except for the Taylor (1993) rule— 
which places relatively less weight on th e output gap—and the first-difference rule— 
which responds to the staff’s pr ojections for inflation and the change  in the output gap 
without regard for the still-elevated level of slack—all unconstrain ed prescriptions are 
5 Both simulations assume that policymakers credibly commit to a specific policy rate path 
extending many years into the future, conditional on underlying economic conditions unfolding as expected. 
6 This rule is used to set the longer-run baseline path for the federal funds rate in the Tealbook 
forecast. 
7 In contrast to the optimal control simula tions, which now use headline inflation in the 
policymakers’ objective function, the policy rule prescrip tions continue to use core inflation as the measure 
of inflation.  This choice of rule specification was made in light of the tendency for current and near-term 
core inflation rates to outperform headline inflation ra tes as predictors of the medium-term behavior of 
headline inflation.  Thus, the use of headline inflation in the optimal control simulations and of core 
inflation in the policy rules are both consistent with  the notion that policymaker s are concerned with the 
medium-term behavior of headline inflation. 
Strategies   
                                                 
 
  
   
 
 
   
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 5 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations for the Federal Funds Rate 
2011 2012 2013 2014 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Percent 
Note:  In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is 
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule 
Note:  The staff baseline projection for the federal funds rate is derived from the outcome-based policy rule shown in 
the top-left panel.  The top-right panel depicts the mean path and confidence intervals of future federal funds rates 
derived from market quotes as of August 3. In both panels, dark and light shadings represent the 70 and 90 percent 
confidence intervals respectively. Explanatory Note B provides further background information. Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Memo 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Percent Market-Based Expectations
for the Federal Funds Rate 
Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy 
2011Q3 2011Q4 2011Q3 2011Q4 
Taylor (1993) rule 0.36 0.76 0.36 0.76
     Previous Tealbook 0.45 0.90 0.45 0.90 
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -2.63 -2.20
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -2.25 -1.73 
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.19 -0.47
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.02 -0.15 
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.15 -0.48
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 0.02 -0.15 
First-difference rule 0.17 0.22 0.17 0.22
     Previous Tealbook 0.31 0.46 0.31 0.46 
2011Q3 2011Q4 
Staff assumption 0.10 0.13 
Fed funds futures 0.10 0.09 
Median expectation of primary dealers 0.13 0.13 
Blue Chip forecast (August 1, 2011) 0.10 0.20 
Strategies0123456789  
0123456789  
 
 
  
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 6 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
below the effective lower bound.  Prescriptions  from the estimated outcome based rule, 
the estimated forecast-based rule, and the first-difference rule depend on the lagged 
federal funds rate, defined as the actual policy rate observed in the previous quarter.  If the 
lagged values used in generating the rule pr escriptions had not b een constrained by the 
effective lower bound from becoming negativ e in 2009 and 2010, the prescriptions from  
all three rules would take negativ e values in both the third and fourth quarters of this year. 
Strategies   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 7 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 8 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  To varying degr ees, each of the alte rnatives acknowledges 
the weak information on output and employment  that was received over the intermeeting 
period and again attributes part  of the softness to the tempor ary factors mentioned in the 
June statement.  The proposed statements di ffer somewhat in their treatment of inflation, 
with Alternatives A and B noting that inflati on has moderated of late , while Alternative C 
says that firms continue to face cost pr essures from high energy and import prices.  
Alternative A states that dow nside risks to the economic outlook have increased and, with 
inflation expected to settle at or below mandate-consistent leve ls, it proposes to increase 
the amount of policy accommodation.  Alternative B differs from the June statement 
mainly in that the economic outlook has been downgraded and the Committee could  
decide to signal that additional accommodation is more likely.  In contrast, Alternative C 
indicates that the Committee sees some upsid e risks to the inflation outlook and suggests 
that reinvestment coul d be discontinued soon. 
With regard to the stance of policy, A lternatives B and C would make only minor 
changes relative to the June statement, wh ile Alternative A would announce several steps 
to ease monetary conditions.   Under Alte rnatives B and C, the Committee would both 
maintain the existing target range for the fe deral funds rate and re iterate the “extended 
period” language.  Both of those Alternat ives also indicate that the Committee will 
continue reinvesting principal payments from its securities holdings, though Alternative 
C would add the qualifier that  reinvestment would continue  “for the time being.”  By 
contrast, under Alternative A, the Comm ittee would indicate that it anticipates 
maintaining the exceptionally lo w target range for the federa l funds rate at least until 
mid-2013.  The Committee also would announce that, over the next 12 months, the Desk 
would adjust the composition of Treasury securities in the SOMA portfolio by purchasing 
$400 billion of long-term Treasury securities— those with remaini ng maturities ranging 
from that of the on-the-run 7-year note out to 30 years—and se lling $400 billion of 
securities with a remaining maturity of 3 years or less.  Relatedly, reinvestments of 
principal would henceforth be directed to l ong-term Treasury securiti es.  Alternative A, 
and potentially Alternative B, would indicate  that the Committee will carefully assess 
incoming information about the economic outlook and “employ its policy tools as 
appropriate” in pursuit of its dual mandate.  In contrast, Alternative C retains the June 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 9 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
language that the Committee will “act as n eeded” to best foster maximum employment  
and price stability.  
The draft statement in Alternative B notes that incoming information indicates 
that economic growth so
 far this year ha s been slower than the Committee expected, 
while observing that the slow pace of recove ry appears to reflect, in part, temporary 
factors.  Alternative B again states that investment in equipment and software is 
expanding, but it characterizes recent indicator s as showing that overall labor market 
conditions remain weak and that household sp ending has flattened out .  In addition, this 
alternative’s assessment of the economic ou tlook is more downbeat than in the June 
statement, indicating that the Committee expects a somewhat slower pace of recovery 
and that unemployment will decline “only gradually.”  While Alternative B points to the 
pickup in inflation earlier in the year, it also notes that inflation recently has moderated 
somewhat, and that longer-term inflation expe ctations remain stable.  Alternative B goes 
on to say that, as the effects on inflation of past energy and other commodity price 
increases dissipate further over coming quarters, inflation will likely settle at rates at or  
below mandate-consistent levels.   
The draft statement under Alternative A supports a shift toward increased 
accommodation by indicating greater concern about recent economic growth and the economic outlook.  It notes that economic grow th has been “considerably slower” than 
the Committee had expected, that recent indica tors show “deteriora tion” in the labor 
market, and that “the unemployment rate ha s moved up.”  Further, Alternative A points 
to the flattening out in household spending and states that the temporary factors noted in 
the June statement appear to account for “only some” of the recent weakness.  The 
statement also indicates that the Committee now expects that the unemployment rate will 
decline “only gradually” and highlights that  “downside risks to the economic outlook  
have increased.”  Alternative A also observes that inflation has moderated recently, and that the Committee anticipates that the factor s that boosted inflation earlier in the year 
will continue to dissipate.     
Alternative C places less emphasis than  Alternatives A and B on the weak 
economic data received since the June mee ting.  The draft statement indicates that 
economic growth was “modest of late” and th at improvement in overall labor market 
conditions has slowed, but it does not include a downward revision to the description of 
the economic outlook.  Moreover, Alternative C points to the potenti al for persistent 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 10 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
inflationary pressures.  It notes that infl ation has picked up this  year and cites cost 
pressures on firms from high commodity and import prices.  Further, the statement 
indicates that the Committee judges the curren t risks to inflation to be “tilted to the 
upside.” 
The next two pages contain a table that s hows key elem ents of the alternatives.  
The table is followed by complete draft stat ements, then by a summary of the arguments 
for each alternative.   
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 11 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
AlternativesC l
ass I F O M C  - R estricted C ontrolled (F R ) A u g u st 4, 2011
Page 12 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
C lass I F O M C  - R estricted C ontrolled (F R ) A u g u st 4, 2011
Page 13 of 50
Alternatives
Authorized for Public Release
JUNE FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April 
indicates that the economic recovery is  continuing at a moderate pace, though 
somewhat more slowly than the Committee had expected.  Also, recent labor market 
indicators have been weaker than anticip ated.  The slower pace of the recovery 
reflects in part factors that are likely to be temporary, including the damping effect of higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing power and spending as well as 
supply chain disruptions asso ciated with the tragic ev ents in Japan.  Household 
spending and business investment in equipm ent and software continue to expand.  
However, investment in nonresidential struct ures is still weak, and the housing sector 
continues to be depressed.  In flation has picked up in rece nt months, mainly reflecting 
higher prices for some commodities and im ported goods, as well as the recent supply  
chain disruptions.  However, longer-term infl ation expectations have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The unemp loyment rate remains elevated; however, 
the Committee expects the pace of recovery  to pick up over coming quarters and the 
unemployment rate to resume its gradual decline toward levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent with its dual ma ndate.  Inflation has moved up recently, but 
the Committee anticipates that inflation w ill subside to levels at or below those 
consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other 
commodity price increases dissipate.  Ho wever, the Committee will continue to pay 
close attention to the evolution of inflation and infla tion expectations. 
3. To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decide d today to keep the 
target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee continues to 
anticipate that economic conditions—including low rates of resource utilization and a 
subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal f unds rate for an extended period.  The 
Committee will complete its purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of this month and w ill maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments from its securities holdi ngs.  The Committee wi ll regularly review 
the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate.  
4. The Committee will monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and 
will act as needed to best foster maximum employment and price stability.  
Alternatives   
 
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 14 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011AUGUST FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A 
1. 	Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April June 
indicates that the  economic growth so far this year recovery is continuing at a 
moderate pace, though somewhat  more slowly has been considerably slower  than 
the Committee had expected.  Also, Recent indicators continue to suggest a 
deterioration in overall  labor market conditions, have been weaker than anticipated 
and the unemployment rate has moved up . The slower pace of the recovery 
reflects in part factors that are likely to be temporary, including the damping effect of 
higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing power and spending as well as 
supply chain disruptions associated with the tr agic events in Japan.  Household 
spending has flattened out, investment in nonresidential structures is still weak, 
and the housing sector remains depressed .  However,  and business investment in 
equipment and software continue s to expand. However, investment in nonresidential 
structures is still wea k, and the housing sector continues to be depressed. 
Temporary factors, including the dampin g effect of higher food and energy 
prices on consumer purchasing power and spending as well as supply chain 
disruptions associated with the tragic events in Japan, appear to account for 
only some of the recent weakness in economic activity. Inflation has picked up 
earlier in the year recent m
onths , mainly reflecting higher prices for some 
commodities and imported goods, as well as the recent  supply chain disruptions. 
More recently, inflation has moderated as prices of energy and some commodities have declined somewhat from their earlier peaks. However, 
Longer-term inflation expectati ons have remained stable.  
2. 	Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  T he unemployment rate remains elevated; however , 
The Committee now  expects the a somewhat slower pace of recovery to pick up  over 
coming quarters and anticipates that the unemployment rate to resume its gradual 
will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent 
with its dual mandate.  Moreover, downside risks to the economic outlook have 
increased.  Inflation has moved up recently, but  The Committee also anticipates that 
inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at subside to  levels at or below those 
consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other 
commodity price increases dissipate further. However, the Committee will continue 
to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. 	To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decide d today to keep the 
target range for the federal funds rate at  0 to ¼ percent. The Committee continues to 
currently anticipate s that economic conditions—inclu ding low rates of resource 
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflat ion over the medium run—are likely to 
warrant exceptionally low levels  for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013 
for an extended period . 
Page 15 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
4. In order to provide greater support for the economic reco very, the Committee 
also decided to adjust the composition of its securities holdings.  Over the next 12 
months, the Committee will purchase $400 billion of Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 7 years to 30 year s and sell an equal amount of Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less.  Lengthening the average 
duration of the Federal Reserve’s securi ties portfolio should put downward 
pressure on longer-term interest rate s in private credit markets and thereby 
support growth in private demand for goods and services. The Committee also 
will complete its purchases of $600 billion of longer- term Treasury securities by the 
end of this month and will  maintain its existing  policy of reinvesting principal 
payments from its securities holdings  and, going forward, will use the proceeds to 
purchase only Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 7 years to 30 
years.  The Committee will regularly review th e size and composition of its securities 
holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings further if needed as appropriate .  
5. The Committee will monitor carefully assess the economic outlook in light of 
incoming information  and financial developments  and will  employ its policy tools 
as appropriate to best foster maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 16 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
AUGUST FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April June 
indicates that the  economic growth so far this year recovery is continuing at a 
moderate pace, though somewhat  more slowly has been slower  than the Committee 
had expected.  Also, Recent labor market  indicators continue to show weakness in 
overall labor market conditions, have been weaker than anticipated and the 
unemployment rate remains elevated . The slower pace of the recovery reflects in 
part factors that are likely to be temporary, including the damping effect of higher 
food and energy prices on consumer purch asing power and spending as well as 
supply chain disruptions associated with the tr agic events in Japan.   Household 
spending has flattened out, investment in nonresidential structures is still weak, 
and the housing sector remains depressed .  However,  business investment in 
equipment and software continue s to expand.  However, investment in nonresidential 
structures is still weak, a nd the housing sector continue s to be depressed. The slow 
pace of the recovery this year appears to reflect, in part, temporary factors, 
including the damping effect of higher food and energy prices on consumer 
purchasing power and spending as well as  supply chain disruptions associated 
with the tragic events in Japan.   Inflation has  picked up earlier in the year recent 
months , mainly reflecting higher prices for some commodities and imported goods as 
well as the recent  supply chain disruptions.  More recently, inflation has moderated 
somewhat, as prices of energy and some commodities have leveled off. However, 
Longer-term inflation expectati ons have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  T he unemployment rate remains elevated, however ; 
The Committee now  expects the a somewhat slower pace of recovery to pick up  over 
coming quarters and anticipates that the unemployment rate to resume its gradual 
will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent 
with its dual mandate.  Inflation has moved up recently, but  The Committee also 
anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at subside to  levels at or 
below those consistent with the Committee' s dual mandate as the effects of past 
energy and other commodity price increases dissipate further.  However 
Nonetheless , the Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of 
inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decide d today to keep the 
target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee continues to 
anticipate that economic conditions—including low rates of resource utilization and a 
subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federal f unds rate for an extended period.  The 
Committee also will complete its purchases of $600 billion of longer -term Treasury 
securities by the end of this month and  will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments from its securities holdi ngs.  The Committee wi ll regularly review 
the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate.  
Alternatives   
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 17 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
4. The Committee will monitor carefully assess the economic outlook in light of 
incoming information  and financial developments  and will  [act as needed | employ 
its policy tools as appropriate ] to best foster maximum employment and price 
stability. 
Alternatives   
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 18 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
AUGUST FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April June 
indicates that the  economic growth  recovery has been modest of late is continuing 
at a moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than the Committee had expected.  
Also, recent labor market  indicators suggest that have been weaker than anticipated 
improvement in overall labor market conditions has slowed .  The slowe r modest 
pace of the recovery appears to  reflects  in part factors that are likely proving  to be 
temporary, including the damping effect  of higher food and energy prices on 
consumer purchasing power and spending as well as supply chain disruptions 
associated with the tragic events  in Japan.  Household spending and  Business 
investment in equipment and software continue s to expand despite these shocks .  
However, household spending has flattened out, investment in nonresidential 
structures is still weak, and the housing sect or continues to be depressed.  Inflation 
has picked up in recent months this year , mainly reflecting as firms have faced cost 
pressures from higher prices for some commodities  and imported goods, as well as 
the recent supply chain disruptions .  However, longer-term inflation expectations 
have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The unemp loyment rate remains elevated; however, 
The Committee expects the pace of recovery  to pick up over coming quarters and the 
unemployment rate to resume i ts a gradual decline toward levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Inflation has moved up recently, but 
The Committee anticipates that inflation will subside, over coming quarters, to 
levels at or below those consistent with  the Committee's dual mandate as the effects 
of past energy and other commodity pr ice increases dissipate.  However, the 
Committee sees the risks to the inflat ion outlook as tilted to the upside.  The 
Committee will continue to pay close atten tion to the evolution of inflation and 
inflation expectations. 
3. To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation in the 
medium run , over time,  is at levels consistent with its dual mandate, and thereby 
support progress toward maximum employment,  the Committee decided today to 
keep the target range for the federal funds  rate at 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee 
continues to anticipate that economic conditions—inc luding low rates of resource 
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflat ion over the medium run—are likely to 
warrant exceptionally low levels for the fe deral funds rate for an extended period.  
For the time being, the Committee will complete its purchases of $600 billion of 
longer -term Treasury securities by the end of this month and will maintain its existing 
policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities holdings.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate.   
4. The Committee will monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and 
will act as needed to best foster maximum employment and price stability.   
Alternatives   
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 19 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
The Committee may view the information received over the intermeeting period 
as pointing to weaker economic activity than  was expected at the time of the June 
meeting, and note that inflation has moderate d only somewhat.  However, members may 
see the incoming data on production and the pi ckup in inflation ear lier this year as 
materially reflecting temporary factors.  If so, they may continue to expect economic 
activity to strengthen over the s econd half of the year and in to next year while inflation 
returns to a subdued pace.  Although the Comm ittee may now see the recovery as likely 
to be more gradual than anticipated at the time of the June meeti ng, it may see the change 
as not sufficient to justify a change in the stance of policy—particula rly if members judge 
the level of uncertainty about the outlook to  be unusually high—and so choose to leave 
the stance of policy unchanged at this meeti ng, as in Alternative B.  In that case, 
members might favor a statement that acknowle dged the recent weakness in the data on 
economic activity—by noting slower-than-expected economic growth over the first half 
of the year, continued weakness in labor ma rket indicators, and a flattening out of 
consumer spending—while indicating that in flation has moderated somewhat as the 
prices of energy and other commodities have leveled off.  The statement would then note that the Committee now expects a somewhat sl ower pace of economic recovery but still 
anticipates that inflation w ill settle at or below mandate-consistent levels over coming 
quarters. 
Some Committee members may believe that maintaining the current stance of  
policy is appropriate even though they s ee grounds for concern about the outlook for 
economic activity.  Policymakers may see the optimal control simulations presented in 
the “Monetary Policy Strategies” section of  the Tealbook, which continue to call for 
significant near-term policy easing, as suggesting some benefit from additional monetary 
policy accommodation.  However, participants may also judge that the potential costs of 
employing nontraditional tools at this time, perhaps by providing more specific forward guidance or adjusting the average maturity of the SOMA portfoli o, outweigh the likely 
benefits.  For example, policymakers might be concerned that hardening the forward guidance could make it difficult for the Committ ee to adjust policy sufficiently rapidly if 
growth picks up quickly and in flation does not decline as expected once the temporary 
factors recede.  As a result, even policymake rs who see the downside risks to the outlook 
for economic growth as having increased ma y believe that it is prudent to wait for 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 20 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
additional information bearing on the medi um-term outlook for growth and inflation 
before the Committee takes steps to increa se the degree of po licy accommodation.   
Some Committee members may not be confident that the apparent stabilization of 
the prices of energy and im
ported goods over the past few months will prove sufficient to 
return inflation, over coming quarters, to rate s at or below mandate -consistent levels.  
These members may be uneasy with the elevat ed level of headline inflation in recent 
quarters and view the gradual rise in some  measures of underlyi ng inflation, including 
core CPI and core market-based CPI, as possibly presaging a higher level of near-term  
inflation than would be desirable.  However, ev en if the risk of a continuation of inflation 
in excess of mandate-consistent levels has in creased, members may see that upside risk as 
countered by greater downside risks to th e outlook for growth a nd employment, leading 
them to favor a statement along the lines of Alternative B.  Alternatively, members may 
see the weak incoming data on real activity as a reason to postpone  a reduction in the 
degree of policy accommodation unless their inflation c oncerns are reinforced by 
additional data on actual and expected  inflation over coming quarters.   
Given the accumulation of weak data in recent months, policymakers might wish 
to ensure that the Committee has sufficient flexibility to provide additional 
accommodation should it become necessary to do so.  Members may regard an indication 
that the Committee is less optimistic about th e outlook and stands ready to ease monetary 
policy appropriately as a prudent reaction to recent economic developments because it could bolster public confiden ce in the Committee’s willingnes s and ability to act should 
conditions fail to improve, and so help to stre ngthen the recovery.   Such an indication 
may be seen as especially important give n that the NIPA revisions suggest that 
momentum going into the second half of the year might be less than the Committee had anticipated at the June meeting.  If so, the Committee might choose to modify Alternative 
B, as noted in the final paragraph of the draft statement, to say that it will “carefully 
assess the economic outlook in light of incoming informa tion” and will “employ its 
policy tools as appropriate,” rather than “act as needed,” in pursuit of its dual mandate. 
A statement along the lines of  Alternative B would be roughly in line with market 
expectations.  The Desk’s recent survey of primary dealers indicated that the dealers expect the Committee to retain the “extended period” language for the funds rate and to 
maintain its current reinvestment policy, though most felt that the Committee would 
downgrade the economic outlook.  Some expected the Committee to update its view on 
Alternatives   
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 21 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
the role of temporary factors and to provi de guidance about the likelihood of additional 
policy accommodation as well as the form that it would take . Accordingly, the release of 
a statement like Alternative B could be seen  as suggesting a somewhat less negative 
assessment of economic conditions than some market participants expect, causing them 
to reduce their estimates of the odds of additional accommodation.   If so, bond yields 
could increase and the foreign exchange valu e of the dollar rise.  Equity prices would 
probably decline somewhat.  If the statement suggested that the probability of additional 
policy accommodation in the near term ha d risen, those effects might be muted. 
 THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
Policymakers may view the information received since the June meeting as 
indicating that additional policy accommodation is needed to promote outcomes 
consistent with the Federal Reserve’s dual mandate, as in Alternative A.  The Committee 
could decide to take one or more of the steps outlined in the draft statement:  (1) indicate 
that the federal funds rate is likely to remain at exceptionally low levels until at least mid-
2013; (2) extend the average maturity of th e Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury 
securities by purchasing $400 billion of securities with  remaining maturities of 
approximately 7 years to 30 years and sell ing an equal amount of securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or less, and by reinvesting future principal payments only 
in securities with remaining maturities of 7 years to 30 years; and (3) state that “downside 
risks to the economic recovery have increas ed” and that the Committee will continue to 
assess incoming information and “employ its po licy tools as appropria te” to best foster  
maximum employment and price stability. 
Policymakers may regard the informati on received since the June meeting, 
including the substantial dow nward adjustment to first-quarter GDP growth, as 
confirming that the slow economic recovery  over the first half  of 2011 extended beyond 
the identifiable factors that ar e likely to prove transitory.  Participants also may see the 
weaker growth in disposable personal in come as portending protracted weakness in 
consumer spending, particularly given the persis tently low level of consumer confidence.  
Moreover, the unemployment rate has moved up  and the increase in payroll employment 
over May and June was disappointingly small.  In addition, the pace of business 
investment in equipment and software has slowed noticeably.  Ag ainst this backdrop, 
participants may have significantly downgr aded their assessment of the medium-run 
economic outlook, perhaps along the lines of the “More-persistent spending weakness 
Alternatives   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 22 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
with supply-side corrosion” alternative simu lation.  Policymakers may also be concerned 
about the adverse effects on economic growth  and employment of a potential near-term 
tightening of fiscal policy or of the possi ble downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit 
rating.  In addition, the risk of significant disl ocations in Europe is still quite elevated, 
and an adverse outcome could have importa nt implications for the U.S. outlook, as 
detailed in the “Very severe financial stre ss in Europe” alternative simulation.  As a 
result, the Committee may judge that an  increased degree of monetary policy 
accommodation is necessary, leading them to fa vor a statement containing one or more of 
the elements suggested in Alternative A. 
While noting that inflation picked up over th e first half of the year to levels above 
those that th
e Committee regards as consis tent with its mandate, policymakers may 
nonetheless expect subdued inflation over the medium run.  Members might see the most 
recent data as suggesting that a moderation in  inflation is already under way, especially  
given that energy prices have decreased significantly from their peaks during the spring 
and that supply chain disruptions are easing.  The Committee may also note that both 
survey and market-based measures of longer-term inflation expect ations have changed 
little, on balance, over the course of the ye ar.  Moreover, some participants may now 
anticipate more slack in labor markets over coming quarters, and so may expect greater 
restraint on wages and prices.  Thus, they may now view the main risk to inflation over 
the projection period as being to the downside, with a signi ficant danger that inflation 
will fall below mandate-consistent levels over coming quarters and remain there for a substantial period.  If so, policymakers may c onclude that both the employment and price 
stability components of the dual mandate justify a statement along the lines of Alternative A.  Indeed, given the very high unemployment rate, some participants might judge that it 
would be prudent to tolerate inflation that temporarily exceeded the mandate-consistent 
level for a time, so long as longer-term inflation expectations remained stable. 
Against this backdrop, the Committee may wish to provide additional support for 
the recovery by providing more specific forw ard guidance about the length of time during 
which the federal funds rate can be expect ed to remain exceptionally low, as in 
Alternative A.  Although the staff now expects the target range for the federal funds rate 
to be unchanged through mid-2013, about half of the respondents to the Desk survey 
indicated that they expect the first federal funds target rate increase to occur in the fourth 
quarter of 2012 or earlier.  Providing clar ity that the Committee does not anticipate 
raising the federal funds rate  until the middle of  2013 could have a noticeable effect on 
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 23 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
market expectations and so put some downward pressure on longer-term interest rates.  In 
addition, by better fixing expectations about th e likely timing of future increases in the 
target range for the federal funds rate, th e Committee could prevent medium- and longer-
term rates from rising too quickly as the recovery progresses.  For these reasons, 
policymakers might choose the language in Alte rnative A that indicates  that the range for 
the federal funds target rate is likely to  be unchanged “at least through mid-2013.”  
Moreover, the Committee’s decision to hold th e federal funds target rate exceptionally 
low for longer than previously anticipated w ould reinforce the public’s perception of the 
Committee’s commitment to strengthen the recovery.  Similarly, some participants may 
also see a benefit to prov iding forward guidance about the likely duration of the 
reinvestment program. 
Some participants may view the risks to economic growth as having shifted to the 
downside, but rema
in uncertain about the exp ected benefits of unconventional tools, such 
as additional large-scale asset purc hases, relative to their costs,  especially the risk that the 
Committee might be unable to withdraw accommodation in a timely fashion.  Those participants may view increasing the average maturity of the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings in order to put downward pressure on long-term private inte rest rates without a 
further significant expansion of the Federa l Reserve’s securities  portfolio, as in 
Alternative A, as better balancing those risks.  Preliminar y staff estimates suggest that an 
operation to purchase $400 billion of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 7 years to 30 years while selling an equal amount of other debt securities with much shorter 
maturities—along with a decision to reinvest principal payments from existing securities only in long-term securities —would provide additional suppo rt for the recovery.  The 
estimated range of possible effects on longe r-term interest rate s is quite wide, but 
includes an effect similar to  the $600 billion Treasury purchase program announced in 
November 2010.
1  This policy would likely lead to some increase in reserve balances 
reflecting the different premiums on the securities purchased and sold.2   In addition, such 
1 For additional information about the transmission  mechanism and likely effects of a decision to 
increase the average duration of the Federal Reserve’s holdings of securities, see the memo on “Potential 
Monetary Policy Tools to Provide Further Accommoda tion” (by D. Bowman, M. Kiley, A. Levin, S. 
Meyer, W. Nelson, and D. Reifschneider) that was distributed to the Committee on August 3. 
2 Following the Committee’s usual practice, the draft directive for Alternative A sizes the 
purchases and sales in terms of the face value of th e securities.  The premiums over face value that the 
Desk would have to pay to purchase fairly long-term securities would likely be larger than the net unamortized premiums on the securities that the Desk  would sell.  The total face value of securities 
holdings would remain constant at approximately $2.6 trillion, but the supply of reserve balances would 
likely increase by about $50 billion. If it wished to avoid an increase in reserve balances, the Committee 
could instead direct the Desk to sell sufficient secur ities to purchase $400 billion in face value of longer-
Alternatives   
 
                                                 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
      
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 24 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
a policy step could delay the normalization of  the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance 
sheet after the Committee ceases the reinve stment of principal payments on SOMA 
securities, because the runoff of Treasur y securities would be much slower.3   Moreover, 
the increase in the average duration of the portfolio resulting from this policy would 
increase the Federal Reserve’s exposure to unr ealized capital losses as  a result of changes 
in interest rates.  
An announcement indicating that the Committee is likely to leave the target range 
of the federal funds rate unchanged un til mid-2013, accompanied by a decision to 
increase the average maturity of the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings and a 
suggestion that the Committee is prepared to expand its securities holdings if necessary, 
would surprise market participants.  Responde nts to the Desk’s dealer survey assigned 
only about 20 percent odds to the use of either of those tools over the next twelve months.  
Longer-term yields would likely decline, alt hough the decline might be restrained if 
investors perceived the statement as adding to th e upside risks to inflation.  Equity prices 
would probably rise, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar would likely decline.  
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Although information received since the June meeting suggested that the pace of 
recovery remained modest, Committee member s may view the disappo inting progress of 
the recovery so far this year as largely or wholly attributab le to temporary factors, and, 
with inflation having surprised to the ups ide, favor a statement along the lines of 
Alternative C.  For example, they may view the disruptions to auto production and sales 
associated with the tragic even ts in Japan as a particularly  important factor underlying the 
recent softness in economic activity, and see the signs that such pressures have eased as confirming the likelihood of a near-term rebound.  In addition, the Committee may expect labor market conditions to improve ove r the remainder of the year; for example, 
they may anticipate that with corporate ea rnings and liquidity strong and businesses 
continuing to invest in equipment and soft ware, firms are well positioned to expand 
employment as economic activity picks up.  Policymakers may further judge that financial conditions are likely to become more supportive of economic activity in the 
second half of the year, as s uggested by the reported easing of some lending standards in 
term securities.  Such a policy would reduce the face va lue of securities held but leave the level of reserve 
balances unchanged.  This policy, however, would be somewhat more difficult to communicate. 
3 Of course, the Committee could instruct the Desk to sell enough securities to put total holdings 
on any desired downward path. 
Alternatives   
 
                                                                                                                                                 
 
 
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 25 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
the Federal Reserve’s August Senior Loan Of ficer Opinion Survey.  As a result, some  
Committee members may see a strong pickup in real activity over the second half of the 
year as the most likely scenario, perhap s along the lines of the “Faster Snapback” 
alternative simulation.  If Committee participants  think that output growth is likely to step 
up appreciably, they may also see a significant ri sk that inflation will continue at elevated 
levels.  If so, they may judge that it is appropriate at this juncture to modify the statement 
so as to provide a high degree of flexibility to tighten policy as a ppropriate.  Indeed, if 
growth picks up as they expect, they may wish to begin withdrawing monetary policy 
accommodation as soon as this fall.  As a result, members may favor an announcement in which the Committee signals that the policy of reinvesting principal payments would only be maintained “for the time bei ng,” along the lines of Alternative C. 
Members may believe that the extrao rdinary degree of m
 onetary policy 
accommodation provided in recent years has al ready put in place sufficient support for 
the economic recovery.  As a result, they ma y judge that the most important contribution 
that monetary policy can make going forward is to ensure that longer-term inflation 
expectations remain stable.  They may see th is as helping to fulfill the dual mandate both 
by ensuring that inflation is at mandate-consis tent levels over the intermediate term and 
by providing a stable background for a sust ainable recovery in real activity.  
Policymakers may feel that maintaining the current degree of monetary policy 
accommodation for much longer could jeopardize the stability of inflation and inflation 
expectations.  For example, they may be lieve that the current degree of policy 
accommodation could make it easier for firms to pass through a larger share of the higher 
costs arising from earlier increases in the pr ices of some inputs.  Alternatively, some  
members may see a risk of a further pickup of inflation because they believe that 
potential output over the medium term will prove considerably lower than previously 
thought, as in the “Lower poten tial” alternative simulation.  Indeed, some members might 
see the rising trends in some  measures of underlying inflat ion—such as the core CPI and 
core PCE—as consistent with this assessment.  If so, participants mi ght conclude that the 
Committee can best foster its dual mandate not only by preserving the ability to withdraw 
monetary policy accommodation as soon as necessary, but also by sending a clearer 
statement that “the risks to inflation are tilted to the upside,” as in Alternative C.  
Importantly, the sequence of actions in  the exit strategy agreed to by the 
Committee indicates that a change in the “ex tended period” language would come either 
at the same time as or after the Committee a nnounced the end of the reinvestment policy.  
Alternatives   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 26 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Therefore, some participants may wish to signal that the reinvestment policy could end 
relatively soon because they believe that the removal of the “extended period” language  
regarding the funds rate w ould contribute to the longer-term achievement of the 
Committee’s dual mandate by supporting financial stability.  In partic ular, participants 
might feel that the economy is more prone  to asset price misalignments when the 
Committee indicates that the federal funds rate  is likely to remain very low for an 
extended period, and they might view such misalignments as a major obstacle to the 
achievement of the Committee’s dual mandate in  the long run.  If so, they may favor a 
statement such as Alternative C.   
A statement indicating that the risks to in flation are tilted tow ard the upside and 
hinting that the reinvestment  program could be discontinued soon would surprise market 
participants.  As a result, longer-term interest rates would likel y increase, although the 
Committee’s signal that it could begin to tight en policy sooner than  investors currently 
anticipate might lead to some reduction in inflation compensation.  Stock prices would 
likely decline, and the forei gn exchange value of the dollar would probably increase. 
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 27 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
LONG-RUN  PROJECTIONS OF  THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE  
The staff has prepared two scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy Alternatives A, B, and C; although the language in the 
statements differs, Alternatives B and C have the same balance sheet projection.  Projections under each scenario  are based on assumptions ab out various components of 
the balance sheet.  Details of these assump tions, as well as projections for each major 
component of the balance sheet,  can be found in Explanatory Note C.  Consistent with 
the staff’s forecast, the two scenarios both assume  the target federal funds rate lifts off in 
the third quarter of 2013. 
For the scenario that corr esponds to Alternatives B and C, we assume that the 
Committee continues to reinvest the proceeds from principal repayments from Treasury 
securities and agency securities in Treas ury securities until Fe bruary 2013, about six 
months before the assumed first increase in th e target federal funds rate.  Until that time, 
System Open Market Account (SOMA) securi ty holdings remain c onstant at roughly $2.6 
trillion, and the size of the balance sheet, whic h includes other assets  in addition to the 
SOMA, holds roughly steady at about $2.9 trillion.  In February 2013, six months before the assumed first increase in the target fe deral funds rate, reinve stment ceases, and the 
balance sheet begins to contract.  In Febr uary 2014, roughly six mont hs after the assumed 
first increase in the target federal funds ra te, the Committee begins to sell its remaining 
holdings of agency MBS and agency debt secu rities at a pace that reduces the amount of 
Alternatives   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 28 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
these securities in the portfolio to zer o in five years—that is, by January 2019.4, 5  This 
action, along with the cessation of reinvestment , results in the normali zation of the size of 
the balance sheet by June 2016.6         
After reserve balances have reached th e assumed $25 billion floor, the balance 
sheet begins to expand, with increases in holdings of Treasury s ecurities essentially 
matching the growth of Federal Reserve capita l and notes in circul ation.  The balance 
sheet reaches a size of $1.9 trillion by the end of 2020.  
Under Alternative A, the Committee is assumed to announce the sale of $400 
billion of securities with remaining maturitie s of 3 years or less and the purchase of the 
same amount of securities with remaining ma turities of 7 years or more, with this 
transformation of the maturi ty structure of the SOMA portfolio taking place over one 
year.  It is also assumed that the Committee will reinvest the proceeds from principal 
repayments from its holdings of securities into Treasury securities with a maturity of 7 years or more.  Moreover, we assume that the impact on longer-term interest rates is 
realized immediately with the announcement of  Alternative A, impl ying a lower path for 
interest rates.  The lower path for interest rates under Alternative A implies more MBS prepayments and therefore reduced MBS holdings over the forecast period.  The lower path for interest rates also implies that purch ases of Treasury securities will be made at 
prices that include a premium above their face value that exceeds the premium under the 
baseline. 
Although the change in the SOMA portfolio’s maturity distribution has no direct 
impact on the total face value of SOMA holdings, total assets rise in the near term  
reflecting a sizable increase in net unamortized premiums.  Net unamortized premiums  
increase relative to the baseline for two reasons.  First, the securities being sold generally 
4 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the volume of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five year period is minimal. 
5 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurchase agreements and the Term Deposit 
Facility) are not used in any of the scenarios presented.  Us e of these tools would result in a shift in the 
composition of Federal Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corresponding increase in 
term reverse repurchase agreements or term deposits—but would not produce an overall change in the size 
of the balance sheet.  
6 The assumed timing of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet depends importantly on 
the assumed level of reserve balances that is consistent with the conduct of monetary policy.  A higher level 
of reserve balances would, all else equal, lead to an earlier normalization of the size of the balance sheet. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
 
   
 
   
    
 
   
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 29 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
will have a smaller amount of net unamortized  premium associated with them relative to 
the securities being purchased; and second, all proceeds from principal repayments from  
agency securities and Treasury securities ar e reinvested in Treas ury securities with 
maturities of 7 years or more, which, given the lower longer-term interest rate path 
assumed in Alternative A, implies larger prem iums.  The peak in the size of the balance 
sheet is higher under Alternative A, and the di fference is the result of the accumulation of 
these premiums.  The amount of increased premium on the SOMA portfolio from the 
new purchases and from the reinvestment polic y depends critically on the details of the 
execution of the operation.  The Desk has a self-imposed limit of  holding 70 percent of 
outstanding issues.  This limit, if it is main tained, would tend to push new purchases of  
securities into more recently  issued securities.  The more  recently issued securities, 
especially if they are issued  after the decline in market rates from the announcement of 
the maturity exchange, would tend to have ma rket values much closer to face value, 
implying a potentially much smaller amount of premiums  on the portfolio. 
As in the baseline scenario, sales of agency securities under Alternative A 
commence six months after the federal funds rate  is assumed to rise, and these sales last 
for five years.  Because the portfolio is ma de up of relatively l onger-term securities under 
Alternative A than in the baseline, the pace at  which securities roll off is slower than 
under Alternatives B and C.  As a result, the normalization of the size of the balance 
sheet is delayed until February  2018, one year and eight months  later than in the scenario 
corresponding to Alternatives B and C.  In addition, the normalization of the composition 
of the balance sheet will take longer under A lternative A than in the scenario 
corresponding to Alternatives B and C. 
Compared with the June Tealbook baseline projection, total assets in Alternatives 
B and C are roughly the same until March 2012.   The assumed first increase in the target 
federal funds rate has been delayed three quarters from the previous Tealbook, and so 
redemptions start ten months later than  in the previous baseline projection.7  As a result 
of the ten additional months of reinvestment, the current projection for total assets lies  
7 The projected path of the stock of MBS in the SOMA portfolio in the baseline is little changed 
from the baseline in the June Tealbook.  Although the interest rate path in the baseline is revised down 
some from the last Tealbook, which reduces the size of MBS holdings over the projection period, the model employed by the investment manager to project the MBS prepayment path was adjusted over the intermeeting period to take account of the fact that refinancing activity has been less than anticipated given 
the current low interest rate environment.  This model adjustment more than offsets the interest rate effect, 
increasing the estimated path for the stock of MBS holdings in the baseline slightly relative to the last Tealbook. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
     
    
 
   
   
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 30 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
above the projection in the June Tealbook from April 2012 until June 2016.  From this 
point onward, the size of the ba lance sheet is normalized, and the path for total assets 
aligns with the path in the June Tealbook.  C onsistent with the higher level of assets, on 
the liability side of the balance sheet, the fo recasted path for reserve balances is higher 
than in the previous Tealbook until June 2016, wh en reserve balances fall to $25 billion.  
The higher reserve balances relative to the June Tealbook also reflects a decline in the 
SFA.  Given the large degree of uncertainty ove r the timing and extent of future increases 
in the debt ceiling, the SFA balance is assumed to remain at its current level of zero throughout the forecast period rather than remain  at $5 billion as was projected in the last 
Tealbook.  
In the scenario corresponding to Alternatives B and C, the monetary base is 
projected to start contracti 
ng in the middle of 2012 and it will continue to contract 
through 2015, reflecting the dec line in reserve balances.  Starting in late 2016, after 
reserve balances are assumed to have stabili zed at $25 billion, the monetary base expands 
again, in line with the growth of Federal Reserve capital and not es in circulation. 
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 31 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Aug-10 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 
Sep-10 -10.2 -10.2 -10.1 
Oct-10 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 
Nov-10 3.2 3.2 3.2 
Dec-10 16.8 16.8 16.8 
Jan-11 23.3 23.3 23.3 
Feb-11 57.6 57.6 57.6 
Mar-11 97.8 97.8 97.8 
Apr-11 74.4 74.4 74.4 
May-11 42.1 42.1 42.1 
Jun-11 35.9 35.9 39.6 
Jul-11 26.9 26.9 31.1 
Aug-11 16.2 18.0 5.5 
Sep-11 -0.5 2.3 -14.4 
Oct-11 -2.9 -1.0 -7.6 
Nov-11 10.2 12.0 7.6 
Dec-11 -1.0 1.2 7.4 
2010 Q3 -6.4 -6.4 -6.4 2010 Q4 -3.2 -3.2 -3.2 2011 Q1 36.8 36.8 36.8 2011 Q2 69.4 69.4 69.8 
2011 Q3 25.5 26.3 23.6 
2011 Q4 2.9 4.9 -2.7 2012 Q1 6.6 9.8 5.6 
2012 Q2 3.9 8.0 -11.5 
2009 52.5 52.5 52.5 2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 
2011 37.3 38.2 34.9 2012 2.3 6.3 -8.7 2013 -12.5 -9.6 -16.3 
2014 -15.4 -11.6 -16.5 
2015 -22.1 -15.8 -21.0 
Note: Not seasonally adjusted. Monthly 
Quarterl y 
Annual - Q4 to Q4 Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternatives B 
and C Alternative A Memo : June 
Tealbook 
Percent, annual rate 
Alternatives   
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 32 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial sector  debt is projected to expa nd at an annual rate of 5 
percent in the third quarter, dr iven by rapid expansion in federal government debt and a 
modest rise in private nonfinancial debt.  In  the remainder of the forecast period ending in 
2013, domestic nonfinancial sector debt is exp ected to grow at about a 5 percent pace, on 
average, as federal debt c ontinues to advance and privat e nonfinancial debt gradually 
accelerates.  Nonfinancial business debt is fore casted to increase at a moderate pace over 
the projection period, reflecting further gain s in capital expenditures.  Despite low 
mortgage rates, home mortgage debt is projec ted to contract further in 2011 and to be 
about flat in 2012, as house pric es are forecasted to continue  to decline, housing demand 
is projected to remain weak in part b ecause of elevated unemployment, and lending 
standards are expected to ease only slowly.  Consumer credit is projected to post a 
modest gain this quarter and then to gradually accelerate, driven by rising spending on 
consumer durables.   
We expect commercial bank credit to increa se only modestly in the second half of 
2011, with loans projected to rise at a somewhat slower pace than banks’ securities 
holdings.  Ongoing balance sheet pressures, st ill-stringent lending standards, and a lack 
of demand from high-quality borrowers for certain types of loans will continue to weigh 
on bank lending.  Over 2012 and 2013, however, we  expect these factors to gradually 
abate and bank credit to accelerate.  Commercial and  indus trial loans are projected to 
increase steadily through the forecast period as a result of a continue d rise in investment 
outlays and further gradual easi ng of banks’ lending standards and terms for such loans.  
In contrast, lending to businesses through comme rcial real estate lo ans is expected to 
contract through 2012 and remain largely flat during 2013, primarily reflecting the projected continued weakness in market funda mentals and elevated charge-offs that will 
lessen only gradually over time.  Turning to  household lending, residential real estate 
loans are projected to rema in mostly unchanged through mid-2012 and inch up in 2013, 
reflecting in part weakness in housing dema nd and relatively tight lending standards.  
Consumer loans are projected to increase modestly over the second half of 2011 and 
strengthen over the rest of the foreca st horizon, supported by a pickup in consumer 
spending.  Banks’ securities holdings are foreca sted to expand at a moderate pace through 
the forecast period.  
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 33 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
After a sharp acceleration expansion in June and July due to special factors that 
are expected to reverse in short order (see the discussion in the Fi nancial Developments 
section in Tealbook Book A), M2 is projecte d to grow at a pace  of roughly 3 percent 
through 2012 before contracting in 2013.  The overall contour of the forecast is 
predicated on an assumption that the level of M2 is currently higher than would be 
implied by fundamentals, not only as a result of  the recent special factors, but also as a 
result of a flight to safety during and afte r the 2007-2009 financial crisis.  Beginning next 
quarter, M2 is forecast to grow about in line with nominal GDP until the second quarter of 2012, at which point we expect  households to begin shifti ng their portfolios away from  
liquid M2 deposits toward hi gher-yielding investments as the economy gains strength.  
As a result, money growth falls below that of GDP.  In 2013, the projected rise in the 
general level of interest ra tes will increase the opportunity cost of holding monetary 
assets; staff also expects that this incr ease in opportunity cost will boost the pace of 
household portfolio reallocation.  The combin ed effects of the in crease in opportunity 
cost and household portfolio real location results in a contraction in M2 over the second 
half of 2013.  
Within M2, liquid deposit growth is expect ed to moderate an
 d then turn negative 
in the second half of 2013, consistent with the increased opportunity cost.  In contrast, 
small time deposits are expected to run o ff through the second quarter of 2013—in line 
with the expected reallocation out of M2 asse ts—before resuming growth as interest rates 
rise.  Retail money market mutual funds are ex pected to contract a bit longer than small 
time deposits, through the end of 2013, as investor s are historically slower to move into 
such funds after interest rates move up.  Currency is expected to expand at around its 
long-run average pace over  the forecast period.   
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 34 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
M2 Growth Rates 
(percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast* 
Jan-11 3.3 
Feb-11 8.3 
Mar-11 3.8 
Apr-11 4.8 
May-11 7.5 
Jun-11 12.2 
Jul-11 25.2 
Aug-11 8.0 
Sep-11 -1.3 
Oct-11 3.5 
Nov-11 3.4 
Dec-11 3.6 
Quarterly Growth Rates 
2011 Q1 5.0 
2011 Q2 6.4 
2011 Q3 13.7 
2011 Q4 2.9 
Annual Growth Rates 
2010 3.2 
2011 7.2 
2012 3.1 
2013 -1.1 
* This forecast is consistent with nominal GDP and interest rates in the 
Tealbook forecast. Actual data th rough June 2011; projections 
thereafter. 
Alternatives   
 
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 35 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
DIRECTIVE  
The June directive appears below.  Dr afts for an August directive corresponding 
to each of the three policy alternatives app ear on subsequent pages.  The directive for 
Alternatives B and C would instruct the Desk to continue the current  policy of reinvesting 
principal payments on SOMA securities.  The Directive for Alternative A would instruct 
the Desk to take appropriate steps to sell and purchase Treasury holdings so as to increase 
the average maturity of the holdings of the SOMA portfolio, and dire ct reinvestments of 
principal payments to long-term securities.  Al l three directives also instruct the Desk to 
keep the total face valu e of domestic securities holdi ngs at approximately $2.6 trillion, 
the level attained at the completion of the purchase program in June 2011.  
June 2011 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/ 4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to 
complete purchases of $600 billion of longer-t erm Treasury securities by the end of this 
month. The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments on all domes tic securities in the System  Open Market Account in 
Treasury securities in order to maintain th e total face value of domestic securities at 
approximately $2.6 trillion. The System Op en Market Account Manager and the 
Secretary will keep the Committee informed  of ongoing developments regarding the 
System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's 
objectives of maximum employ ment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 36 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
August 2011 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/ 4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to 
complete purchases of $600 billion of longer -term Treasury securities  by the end of this 
month. The Committee directs the Desk to execute purchases, over the next 12 
months, of Treasury securities with remai ning maturities of approximately 7 years 
to 30 years with a total face value of $400 billio n, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a total face value of $400 billion. The 
Committee also directs the Desk to  maintain its existing policy of  reinvesting  principal 
payments on all domestic securities in the System Open Market Account in Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approximately 7 years to 30 years in order to 
maintain the total face value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion. The 
System Open Market Account Manager a nd the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee' s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
Alternatives   
   
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 37 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
August 2011 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/ 4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to 
complete purchases of $600 billion of longer -term Treasury securities  by the end of this 
month. The Committee also  directs the Desk to maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments on all domes tic securities in the System  Open Market Account in 
Treasury securities in order to maintain th e total face value of domestic securities at 
approximately $2.6 trillion. The System Op en Market Account Manager and the 
Secretary will keep the Committee informed  of ongoing developments regarding the 
System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's 
objectives of maximum employ ment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 38 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
August 2011 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/ 4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to 
complete purchases of $600 billion of longer -term Treasury securities  by the end of this 
month. The Committee also directs the Desk to ma intain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments on all domes tic securities in the System  Open Market Account in 
Treasury securities in order to maintain th e total face value of domestic securities at 
approximately $2.6 trillion. The System Op en Market Account Manager and the 
Secretary will keep the Committee informed  of ongoing developments regarding the 
System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's 
objectives of maximum employ ment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 39 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 40 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Explanatory Notes  
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The concepts of the equilibrium real rate  reported in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate,” are defined as the level of the real federal funds rate th at is consistent with 
output at potential within a specified time horizon.  The short-run equilibrium rate is defined as 
the rate that would close the output gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal funds rate 
projected to prevail in seven years, under the assu mption that monetary policy acts to bring actual 
and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps them equal thereafter. 
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal  
funds rate. 
EDO Model  Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy— 
depend on data for major spending cat egories, prices and wages, and the 
federal funds rate as well as the model’s structure and estimate of the output 
gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of  
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the extended baseline.  
Explanatory Notes  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 41 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Measure Description 
Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’   
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
TIPS-based ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the 
Factor Model Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor, 
arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields,   
and inflation.  
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the federal 
funds rate and the trailing four-qua rter change in the core PCE pri ce index.  The federal funds rate 
is specified as the target federal funds  rate on the Tealbook publication date.  
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on th e proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimates of the real federa l funds rates using alternative proxies:  lagged 
core PCE inflation, which is used to construct th e actual real federal funds rate shown in the table 
that displays the r* measures; lagged four-quarter headline PCE inflation; and projected four-
quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  The table also displays the 
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate and the 
average of the projected real federal funds rate  over the next twelve quarters using each of the 
different proxies for expected inflation.  
Proxy used for  
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current value) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value)  Projected real 
funds rate 
(twelve-quarter-
ahead average) 
Lagged core inflation  1.1 2.9 1.2  
Lagged headline 
inflation  2.3 3.1 1.4  
Projected headline inflation  1.3 2.9 1.1 
 
 
Explanatory Notes   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 42 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS   
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
௧ାଵݕ  and כ
௧െ  ݕ௧ ݕ one quarter ahead ( |௧ െ ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ ,)and the forecast of three-quarter-ahead annual 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ െ Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כ ,)and π* denotes an assumed value 
of policymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  The outcome-based and forecast-based rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the samp le 1988:1-2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion. Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point  increments during the first three quarters of 
1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003). 
Outcome-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
Forecast-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
  ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
First-difference rule ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ 
FRB/US  MODEL SIMULATIONS  
Prescriptions from the two empirical rules are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969 2008.  
Explanatory Notes   
 
  
 
    
  
        
  
        
 
 
   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 43 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL  MARKETS   
The expected funds rate path is based on quotes for federal funds and Eurodollar futures 
as well as implied three-month forward rates from  swaps, and the confidence intervals for this 
path are constructed using prices of interest rate caps.   The computations use the staff’s baseline 
assumptions about term premiums. 
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap.  The first-difference rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the estimated forecast-based 
rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-ha nd-side variable. When the Tealbook is published 
early in the quarter, the lines denoted “Previous  Tealbook” report rule prescriptions based on the 
previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in  
the previous quarter. When the Tealbook is publ ished late in the quarter, the lines denoted 
“Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescrip tions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff 
outlook, but jumping off from th e average value for the policy rate thus far this quarter 
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John  B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214.  
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341.  
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary  Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
Explanatory Notes   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 44 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
C. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section titled “Long-Run Projections of the Bala nce Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are construc ted on a monthly frequency from August 2011 
to December 2020.  The few balance sheet items that are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level ob served on July 31, 2011.  The projections for all 
major asset and liability categories under each scen ario are summarized in the tables that follow 
the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate begins to increase in the third 
quarter of 2013, three quarters later than in the June Tealbook.  The balance sheet projections 
assume that no use of short-term draining tools is  necessary to achieve the projected path for the 
federal funds rate.1  
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency Mortgage-Backe d Securities (MBS), and Agency Debt 
Securities  
 The assumptions under Alternatives B and C are: 
o  Principal payments from Treasury securities c ontinue to be reinvested until February  
2013.  
o  Principal payments from agency MBS and agency debt securities continue to be reinvested in longer-term Treasury securities until February  2013.
2  
o  All purchases of Treasury securities are execu ted using a maturity distribution similar 
to that currently used by the Desk.  
o  As of February 2013, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is assumed to cease reinvesting principal payments on securities held in the SOMA portfolio. 
o  The Federal Reserve begins to sell agen cy MBS and agency  debt securities in 
February  2014, roughly six months after th e assumed date of the first increase in the 
target federal funds rate.  Holdings of agency securities are reduced over five years and reach zero by January  2019. 
1 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities woul d change: Reserve balances would fall as term 
deposits and reverse repurchase agreements rose.  Presumably, these draining tools would be wound down 
as the balance sheet returned to its steady state gr owth path, so that the pr ojected paths for Treasury 
securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
2 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflec t interest rates as of August 3, 2011. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
                                                 
  
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 45 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
o  For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment  is based on estimates of housing ma rket 
factors from  one of the program’s investment  managers and interest rate projections 
from the Tealbook.  The projected rate of prepayment is sensitive to these underlying 
assumptions. 
  Under Alternative A, beginning in Septem ber 2011, the FOMC is assumed to sell $400 
billion of securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less and to purchase the same 
amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 7 years or more.  This activity  
takes place over one year.  It is also assum ed that the FOMC will reinvest the proceeds 
from principal repayments from its holdings of  all securities into Treasury securities with 
a maturity of 7 years or more.  Moreover, we assume that the impact on longer-term  
interest rates is realized immediately upon the announcement of Alternative A, implying 
a lower path for interest rates in Alternat ive A relative to the scenario corresponding to 
Alternatives B and C.  The lower path for in terest rates under Alternative A implies more 
MBS prepayments and therefore reduced MB S holdings over the forecast period.  The 
lower path for interest rates also implie s that purchases of Treasury  securities will be 
made at prices that include a premium above their face value that exceeds the premium  
under the baseline. 3  
  In all scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  To maintain 
reserve balances at this level, first Treasury bills are purchased.  Purchases of bills 
continue until these securities comprise one-thi rd of the Federal Reserve’s total Treasury  
security holdings–about the average level prior to  the crisis.  Once this level is reached, 
the Federal Reserve buys notes and bonds in a ddition to bills to maintain an approximate  
composition of the portfolio of one-third bills and two-thirds coupon securities.  
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
  Loans through the Term  Asset -Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) peaked at $48 
billion in December 2009.  Credit extended thro ugh this facility declines to zero by the 
end of 2014,  reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
  The assets held by TALF LLC remain at about $1.0 billion through 2014 before declining 
to zero the following 
year.  Assets held by TALF LLC consist of investments of 
commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this 
projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in connec tion with a decision of a borrower to not 
repay a TALF loan.  
  The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC and Ma iden Lane III LLC decline gradually over 
time.  The assets of Maiden Lane II LLC are assumed to be constant at their level as of 
3 Because current and expected n ear-term rates are below the aver age coupon rate on outstanding 
Treasury securities, the market valu e at which these securities are purchased will generally exceed their 
face value.  Reserve balances will in crease by the market value, whereas securities holdings as reported on 
the H.4.1 statistical release will increase by the face va lue; the implied premiums are recorded as “other 
assets.”  
Explanatory Notes   
                                                 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 46 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
July 31, 2011 until the process to sell the asset s in the LLC’s portfolio resumes after the 
first increase in the target federal funds ra te.  At this point, the asset sales resume  and 
holdings gradually fall to zero by June 2014.  
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2012.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as projected in the extended Tealbook 
projection.  
  The U.S. Treasury’s General Account (TGA) follows the staff forecast through 
December 2011.4  Then, the TGA slowly  drops back to its historical target level of $5 
billion by March 2012 as it is assumed that the Treasury will implement a new cash 
management system and invest funds in ex cess of $5 billion.  The TGA remains constant 
at $5 billion over the remainder of the forecast period. 
  Given the large degree of uncertainty over the timing and extent of future increases in the 
debt ceiling, we maintain the Supplementa ry  Financing Account(SFA) balance at its 
current level of zero throughout the forecast.  
  Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
  In general, increases in the level of Federa l Reserve assets are matched by  higher levels 
of reserve balances.  Increases in the levels  of liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or other liabilities, or increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, 
drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 b illion, purchases of Treasury securities are 
assumed in order to maintain th at level of reserve balances.  
  In the event that a Federal Reserve Bank’s earnings fall short of the amount necessary to 
cover operating costs, pay  dividends, and equa te surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred 
asset will be recorded.  This deferred asset is  recorded in lieu of reducing the Reserve 
Bank’s capital and is found on the liability  side of the balance sheet as “Interest on 
Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”   This liability takes on a positive value 
when weekly  cumulative earnings have not yet been distributed to the Treasury, while 
this liability takes on a negative value when earnings fall short of the expenses listed 
above.  In the projections, Systemwide earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses and this line item  is set to zero. 
4 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of 
both the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Treasury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are only $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is a good 
proxy for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
                                                 
  
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 47 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
Jul 31, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,869 2,998 2,374 1,840 1,748 1,941 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 53 46 26 18 9 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 53 46 26 18 9 4 
Securities held outright 2,648 2,642 2,096 1,624 1,587 1,827 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,638 1,887 1,559 1,354 1,576 1,827 
Agency debt securities 112 77 39 16 0 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 897 678 498 254 10 0 
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 7 7 7 7 7 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 155 304 251 198 151 110 
Total liabilities 2,817 2,928 2,281 1,718 1,585 1,726 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 989 1,078 1,201 1,337 1,470 1,611 
Reverse repurchase agreements 70 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,685 1,762 995 295 30 30 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,620 1,757 990 290 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 65 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due to U.S. Treasury 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 52 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A
 
Page 48 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
Jul 31, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,869 2,856 2,079 1,575 1,748 1,941 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 53 46 26 18 9 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 53 46 26 18 9 4 
Securities held outright 2,648 2,640 1,913 1,437 1,629 1,834 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,638 1,844 1,341 1,148 1,618 1,834 
Agency debt securities 112 77 39 16 0 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 897 719 534 272 11 0 
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 7 7 7 7 7 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 155 165 139 120 109 103 
Total liabilities 2,817 2,786 1,986 1,453 1,585 1,726 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 989 1,078 1,201 1,337 1,470 1,611 
Reverse repurchase agreements 70 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,685 1,620 699 30 30 30 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,620 1,615 694 25 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 65 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due to U.S. Treasury 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 52 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternatives B & C 
Page 49 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 4, 2011
Page 50 of 50
Authorized for Public Release