Prefatory Note 
Th
e attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.   
Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
Content last modified 01/29/2016. 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 Class I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
August 5, 2010 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

(This page is  intentionally blank.) 
1 The effect on r* of the staff’s interpretation of the weaker incoming data more than offsets the 
increases in short-run  r* arising from the one-quarter shift in  the time window used to calculate r* .  
2  Because EDO and FRB/US have not yet been reestimated using the re vised NIPA data, their 
estimates of r* have not yet fully responded to the new historical estimates of output, income, and prices. 
3 The small structural model uses a measure of th e equity premium constructed from the ratio of 
NIPA dividends to stock market wealth, potential growth, and the real yield on 10-year Treasury bonds. 
The recent evolution of this measure has differed somewhat from that of th e equity premium measure 
considered in Tealbook A. 
Strategies                                                 
  
 
 
    
 
   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 1 of 46Monetary Policy Strategies 
The exhibit “Equilibrium Real Federal F unds Rate” displays estimates of short-
run r* , defined as the real federal funds rate th at, if maintained over time, would return 
output to its potential in twel ve quarters.  The Tealbook-consistent measures of short-run 
r* for the third quarter are lowe r than the estimates for that quarter as they  stood at the 
time of the last projection and the estimates for the second quarter that  were reported in 
the June Tealbook.1  The lower values for these Tealbook-consistent measures reflect the 
downward revision of output relative to pot ential through the second quarter as well as 
the staff's weaker projection of aggregate demand going forward .  The EDO model 
generates a larger declin e in the Tealbook-consistent  estimate of short-run r* than the 
FRB/US model, reflecting the EDO model’s lower sensitivity of aggregate demand to 
movements in short-term interest rates.  In contrast, the EDO and FRB/US model-based 
estimates of short-run r*, which are generated using each model’s own projections rather 
than the staff outlook, have declined slightly since the previous Teal book.  For EDO, this 
shift reflects a more modest revision to econom ic slack than that in corporated into the 
staff projection.  For FRB/US, the revision to  the output gap was on par with the change 
in the staff’s estimate, but the effect of this revision on r* was partly offset by an upward 
revision to projected economic growth in response to incoming data.2  The short-run r*  
estimate from the small structural model has declined sharply, reflect ing an increase in 
the measure of the equity premium used in that model.3  The estimate from the single-
equation model, which depends solely on the le vel of the output gap and the lagged real 
funds rate, has also declined by a substantial amount. 
The exhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstraine d Monetary Policy” displays the policy 
prescriptions produced by optimal control si mulations of the FRB/US model based on the 
extended staff baseline projection that incor porates the Federal Reserve’s large-scale 
asset purchases.  In these simulations, polic ymakers are assumed to place equal weight on 
keeping core PCE inflation close to a 2 percent inflation goal, on keeping unemployment 
- 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 2 of 46
10-8-6-4-202468 
 
    
   
    
    
    
( ( (
    
    
   
    
  
    
  
    
   
    
    
    
   
    
( ( (
    
( ( (
    
   
    
(   
    
  
    
(  
    
   
    
 Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate 
Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals Percent 
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation 
Range of four model-based estimates 
70 Percent confidence interval 
90 Percent confidence interval Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US) 8
 
6
 4
 2
 0
 
-2
 -4
 -6
 -8
 -10
 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 
Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures 
Current Current Quarter Estimate Previous 
Tealbook as of Previous Tealbook Tealbook 
Short-Run Measures
 Single-equation model -2.7 -1.4 -1.4
 Small structural model -3.1 -1.1 -0.9
 EDO model 1.1 1.2 1.2
 FRB/US model -2.5 -2.5 -2.6
 Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval -3.9 to 0.9
 90 percent confidence interval -4.9 to 2.3
 Tealbook-consistent measures
 EDO model -5.4 -3.2 -4.3
 FRB/US model -2.3 -1.5 -1.8 
Medium-Run Measures
 Single-equation model 1.0 1.2 1.2
 Small structural model 1.3 1.5 1.6
 Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval 0.2 to 2.1
 90 percent confidence interval -0.5 to 2.6
 TIPS-based factor model 2.0 2.0 
Memo
 Actual real federal funds rate -1.4 -1.0
 
Note: Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals. The actual real federal funds rate shown is based on lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation expectation.
For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A. Estimates of r* may change at the beginning of a
quarter even when there is no shift in the staff outlook because the twelve quarter horizon covered by the calculation
has rolled forward one quarter. Therefore, whenever the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, this table includes
a third column labeled "Current Quarter Estimate as of Previous Tealbook." 
-6-4-202468  
-8-6-4-2024  
34567891011  
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0  Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy 
(2 Percent Inflation Goal) 
Nominal Federal Funds Rate 
Percent
 
8
 
Current Tealbook: Constrained 
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained Previous Tealbook: Unconstrained 
6
 
4
 
2
 
0 
-2 
-4 
-6 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
 
Civilian Unemployment Rate 
Percent
 
11
 
10
 
9
 
8
 
7
 
6
 5
 4
 
3
 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
 Real Federal Funds Rate 
Percent
 
4
 
2
 
0 
-2 
-4 
-6 
-8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
 
Core PCE Inflation 
Four-quarter average Percent 
3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
0.5 
0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 3 of 46
 
4 The current funds rate trajectory under the uncons trained monetary policy is slightly lower than a 
path of the funds rate generated by an optimal-control simulation based on the data used for the June 
Tealbook and jumping off from the third quarter.  This difference reflects the staff’s revisions to the paths 
of the unemployment rate and of output relative to potential. 
Strategies  
                                                 
 
    
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 4 of 46close to the effective NAIRU, and on minimizi ng changes in the federal funds rate.  As 
has been true for some time, these simulations  indicate that the optimal path of policy is 
severely constrained by the zero lower bound on nominal interest rates.  With the lower-
bound constraint imposed, the federal funds rate does not begin to rise appreciably until 
2014 (one quarter later than in the previous  Tealbook), the unemployment rate remains 
above the staff estimate of the NAIRU (5¼ percent) until late 2013, and inflation stays 
persistently below its target rate (black solid  lines).  But if the nominal funds rate could 
fall below zero, optimal policy would call for th e nominal funds rate to decline to around 
minus 4¾ percent in the third quarter of 2011 be fore turning positive in the second half of 
2013 (blue dashed line).  As a result, the une mployment rate would decline to the NAIRU 
about a year earlier and infl ation would be close to 2 pe rcent by 2014.  Relative to the 
June Tealbook, the near-term policy prescrip tions of the unconstrained optimal control 
simulations are little changed apart from a one-quarter outward shift that reflects the 
rolling forward of the jump-off point for these calculations.4 
As shown in the exhibit, “The Policy Ou tlook in an Uncertain Environment,” the 
staff’s estimated outcome-based policy rule pr escribes keeping the federal funds rate at 
its effective lower bound thr ough the fourth quarter of 2012, two quarters later than 
prescribed in the June Tealbook, largely refl ecting the downward revisions to the staff’s 
projection of output relative to  potential.  Over the inte rmeeting period, the expected 
federal funds rate path implied by financial ma rket data has shifted down, consistent with 
the weaker-than-expected incoming data.  The upper bounds of the confidence intervals 
have also moved down, suggesting that financ ial market participan ts have reduced the 
odds they place on outcomes with relatively high funds rates.  The lower panel of the 
exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from  simple policy rules.  As shown in the left-
hand columns, all of the prescriptions rema in at the effective lower bound.  The right-
hand columns show the prescriptions that would be implied by these rules in the absence of the lower bound; all are negative.  Most of  the unconstrained prescriptions have shifted 
downward since June due to the wider output ga p, but that of the Taylor (1993) rule is 
roughly unchanged due to the offsetting effects of somewhat higher near-term inflation.   
The Policy Outlook in an Uncertain Environment 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Percent 
Note: In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is 
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule 
Note: In both panels, the dark and light shading represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively. 
Financial market quotes are as of August 4. Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Staff assumption 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Percent Information from Financial Markets 
Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy 
2010Q3 2010Q4 2010Q3 2010Q4 
Taylor (1993) rule 0.13 0.13 -0.81 -1.23
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.80 -1.07 
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -4.64 -5.04
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -4.16 -4.32 
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.60 -1.62
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.47 -1.28 
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.70 -1.72
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.46 -1.18 
First-difference rule 0.13 0.13 -0.17 -0.38
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.02 -0.13 
Memo 
2010Q3 2010Q4 
Staff assumption 0.13 0.13 
Fed funds futures 0.16 0.14 
Median expectation of primary dealers 0.13 0.13 
Blue Chip forecast (August 1, 2010) 0.20 0.20 
Strategies0123456789  
0123456789  
 
 
  
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 5 of 46
(This page is  intentionally blank.) 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 6 of 46
Alternatives 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 7 of 46
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents four policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B1, B2, and C—for 
the Committee’s consideration.  The incoming da ta have, on balance, been disappointing.  
Whether the data reflect a temporary “soft patch”  or a more persistent  slowing in the pace 
of economic recovery is uncerta in.  Accordingly, this Tealbo ok presents two versions of 
Alternative B:  B1 contains a more downb eat view of the incoming data than B2; 
moreover, B1 incorporates a policy response while B2 does not.  As usual, the 
alternatives offer a range of  policy choices and forward guidance.  The Committee could 
mix components from the various alternativ es to construct its desired statement. 
Under Alternative A, the statement would indicate that information received 
during recent months has increasingly suggested  that the recovery is proceeding at an 
unsatisfactory pace, that the near-term outlook has weakened, and that inflation is likely 
to remain, for some time, below levels the Committee considers most consistent with its dual mandate.  Accordingly, Alte rnative A would lower the target range for the federal 
funds rate to 0 to ⅛ percent and replace the “extended period” language with a more 
explicit statement that the Committee anticipate s keeping the funds rate near zero “until 
resource utilization and underl ying inflation have moved appr eciably closer to levels 
consistent with its longer-term objectives.”  Consistent with the change in the target 
range, the Board would cut the remunera tion rates on required and excess reserve 
balances to [10 basis points].  In addition, Alternative A would keep the total face value of the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasur y instruments, agency debt, and agency 
mortgage-backed securities (MBS) at its curre nt level, but shift the composition of the 
portfolio by reinvesting princi pal payments from agency debt and MBS into Treasuries 
while continuing to roll over maturing Treasury debt.   
Under Alternative B1, the statement woul d note that the pace of recovery has 
slowed and is likely to be modest in the near term.  In additi on, the “extended period” 
language would say that the Committee anticipa tes exceptionally low levels of the federal 
funds rate “at least until resource utilizati on and underlying infla tion are clearly moving 
toward levels consistent with the Committee’s longer-term objectives.”  The Committee 
would not alter the target range for the funds rate but —as in Alternative A—would 
reinvest principal payments from agency debt and MBS into Treasury securities and 
continue to roll over maturing Treasury debt.    
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 8 of 46Apart from minor updating of the summary  of incoming data, the statement under 
Alternative B2 would be unchanged from the one  released after the June meeting.  There 
would be no change in the stance of policy.  The Committee would again indicate that it 
anticipates a moderate recovery.   
Under Alternative C, the Committee would m aintain the 0 to ¼ percent target 
range for the federal funds rate but would i ndicate that a sustaina ble recovery is under 
way and that economic conditions are likely to warrant a “low” target range for the 
federal funds rate “for some time.”  The Comm ittee also would allow all securities held 
in the SOMA to roll off as they mature.   
A table summarizing the key elements of the alternatives appears on the next 
page.  Complete draft statements are on subsequent pages, followed by the arguments for 
each alternative.   
   
                                                                                               
 
     
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
 Table 1: Overview of Alternatives  for the August 10 FOMC Statement 
June August Alternatives 
Statement A B1 B2 C 
Economic Activity 
Recent 
Developments recovery is proceeding recovery is proceeding at an unsatisfactory pace pace of recovery has slowed recovery is proceeding 
Labor 
Market is improving gradually; high 
unemployment; 
employers remain 
reluctant to add to 
payrolls recovery is proceeding at an unsatisfactory 
pace; high 
unemployment; 
employers remain 
reluctant to add to 
payrolls pace of recovery has 
slowed; high 
unemployment; 
employers remain 
reluctant to add to 
payrolls is improving only slowly; high 
unemployment; 
employers remain 
reluctant to add to 
payrolls is improving gradually 
Outlook pace of recovery likely to be 
moderate 
for a time near-term outlook has 
weakened pace of recovery likely 
to be modest in the near 
term pace of recovery 
likely to be 
moderate for a time a sustainable 
economic 
recovery is under 
way 
Financial Conditions 
Recent Developments less supportive of economic growth; 
bank lending has 
continued to 
contract in recent 
months somewhat less supportive of economic 
growth in recent 
months; bank lending 
has continued to 
contract bank lending has continued to contract somewhat more 
supportive of 
economic growth 
in recent weeks 
Inflation 
Recent Developments substantial slack 
restraining cost 
pressures; stable 
inflation expectations substantial slack restraining cost pressures; and… n.a. 
stable inflation expectations 
Outlook likely to be subdued 
for some time likely to remain, for 
some time, below levels 
most consistent with 
dual mandate likely to be subdued for some time gradual return to 
higher levels of 
resource 
utilization in a 
context of price 
stability 
Federal Funds Rate Target and Int erest Rates Paid on Reserves (IOR) 
Intermeeting 
Period 0 to ¼ percent 0 to ⅛ percent; 
cut IOR to 10 bps 0 to ¼ percent 
Forward 
Guidance for 
Federal Funds 
Rate economic conditions are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low 
levels for an 
extended period maintain this range until resource util ization and 
underlying inflation have moved appreciably 
closer to longer-term 
objectives exceptionally low levels 
likely to be warranted 
for an extended 
period—at least until 
resource util ization and 
underlying inflation are clearly moving toward 
longer-term objectives economic 
conditions are 
likely to warrant 
exceptionally low 
levels for an 
extended period economic 
conditions are 
likely to warrant 
low levels for 
some time 
Reinvestment of SOMA Assets 
Approach Interim strategy: allow agency debt 
and MBS to roll off 
but reinvest 
Treasuries reinvest principal payments from agency debt 
and MBS into longer-term Treasury securities; 
continue to roll over maturing Treasury debt Interim strategy: 
allow agency debt 
and MBS to roll off 
but reinvest 
Treasuries allow Treasuries 
as well as agency 
debt and MBS to 
roll off 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 9 of 46
Alternatives   
 
 
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 10 of 46JUNE FOMC STATEMENT   
1.  Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April suggests  
that the economic recovery is proceeding and that the labor market is improving 
gradually.  Household spe nding is increasing but rema ins constrained by high 
unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit.  
Business spending on equipment and software  has risen significantly; however, 
investment in nonresidential structures cont inues to be weak and employers remain 
reluctant to add to payrolls.  Housing star ts remain at a depressed level. Financial 
conditions have become less supportive of  economic growth on balance, largely 
reflecting developments abroad.  Bank lending has continued to contract in recent months.  Nonetheless, the Committee anticipa tes a gradual return to higher levels of 
resource utilization in a context of pr ice stability, although the pace of economic 
recovery is likely to be moderate for a time. 
2.  Prices of energy and other commodities have declined somewhat in recent months, and underlying inflation has trended lowe r.  With substantial resource slack 
continuing to restrain cost pressures and longer-term inflation expectations stable, 
inflation is likely to be subdued for some time. 
3.  The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of  the federal funds rate for an extended 
period. 
4.  The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic 
recovery and price stability.  
   
Page 11 of 46
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010 AUGUST FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A 
1.	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April over 
recent months has increasingly suggested suggests  that the economic recovery in 
economic activity and the labor market is proceeding at an unsatisfactory pace and 
that the labor market is improving gradually . Household spending is increasing only 
gradually but and remains constrained by high unemployment, modest income 
growth, lower housing wealth, and tight cr edit.  Business spending on equipment and 
software has risen significantly is rising less rapidly than  earlier in the year, and 
the contribution of inventory investment to growth is likely to wane . ; however, 
Investment in nonresidential structures cont inues to be weak, and employers remain 
reluctant to add to payrolls.  Housing starts remain at a depressed level.  Financial 
conditions have become somewhat less supportive of economic growth  in recent 
months, on balance, largely reflecting development s abroad. and bank lending has 
continued to contract in recent months . Nonetheless,Although the Committee still 
anticipates a gradual return to  higher levels of resource utilization in a context of 
price stability, although the pace of economic recovery is likely to be moderate for a time the near-term outlook for economic activity has weakened . 
2.	 Prices of energy and other commodities have declined somewhat in recent months, and Measures of underlying inflation has have trended lower in recent  quarters . 
With substantial resource slack continuing to restrain cost pr essures and longer-term 
inflation expectations stable, in flation is likely to be subdued remain, for some time , 
below levels that the Committee considers most consistent with its mandate to 
promote maximum employment and stable prices . 
3.	 To support the economic recovery,  the Committee will maintain decided to reduce 
the target range for the federal funds rate at to 0 to ¼ ⅛ percent and continues to 
anticipate that economic conditions, incl uding low rates of re source utilization, 
subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extend ed period. Consistent 
with this reduction, the Board of Gov ernors cut the remuneration rates on 
required and excess reserve balances to 10 basis points effective with the reserve 
maintenance period beginning August 12. The Committee anticipates 
maintaining this range for the federal funds rate until resource utilization and 
underlying inflation have moved appreciably  closer to levels consistent with its 
longer-term objectives. 
4.	 To provide additional support for the economic recovery, the Committee will 
maintain the Federal Reserve’s holdings  of longer-term securities at their 
current level by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in Treasury securities.  The Committee will continue 
to roll over the Federal Reserve’s holdings  of Treasury securities as they mature. 
5.	 The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic 
recovery and pri ce stability.  
Alternatives   
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 12 of 46  AUGUST FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B1  
1.  Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April June  
suggests indicates  that the economic pace of  recovery in output and employment 
has slowed  is proceeding
 and that the labor market is improving gradually .  
Household spending is increasing  gradually, but remains constrained by high 
unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit.  
Business spending on equipment and so ftware has risen significantly is rising; 
however, investment in nonresid ential structures continues to be weak and employers 
remain reluctant to add to payrolls.  Hous ing starts remain at a depressed level.  
Financial conditions have become less s upportive of economic growth on balance,  
largely reflecting developments a broad. 
Bank lending has continued to contract in 
recent mont
hs.  Nonetheless, the Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher 
levels of resource utiliza tion in a context of price stability, although the pace of 
economic recovery is likely to be modera te for a time  modest in the near term .
2.  Prices of energy and other commodities have declined somewhat in recent months, and Measures of  
underlying inflation has have  trended lower in recent  qu
arters .  
and, with substantial resource slack continuing to restrain cost pressures and longer-
term
 inflation expectations stable, inflati on is likely to be subdued for some time.  
3.  The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to anticipates that , with inflation expectations stable,  
economic conditions, including low rates of  resource utilization, subdued inflation 
trends, and stable inflation exp ectations, are likely to warrant  exceptionally low levels 
of the federal funds rate  are likely to  be warranted  for an extended period —at least 
until resource utiliz
ation and underlying inflation are clearly moving toward 
levels consistent with the Committee’s longer-term objectives . 
4.  To help support a more timely return  to those objectives, the Committee will 
maintain the Federal Reserve’s holdings  of longer-term securities at their 
current level by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in Treasury securities.  The Committee will continue 
to roll over the Federal Reserve’s holdings  of Treasury securities as they mature.  
5.  The Commit
 tee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic 
recovery and price stability.  
Alternatives   
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 13 of 46AUGUST FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B2    
1.  Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April June  
suggests that the economic recovery is proceeding and but that the labor market is 
improving gradually only slow
ly.  Household spending is increasing  gradually,  but 
remains constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing 
wealth, and tight credit.  Business spending on equipment and software has risen 
significantly; however, investment in nonresid ential structures continues to be weak 
and employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls.  Housing starts remain at a 
depressed level.  Financial conditions have become less supportive of econom ic 
growth on balance,  largely reflecting developments abroad. Bank lending has 
continued to contract in recent  m
onths , though less rapidly of late .  The Committee 
antic
ipates a gradual return to  higher levels of resource utilization in a context of  
price stability, although the pace of economic r ecovery is likely to be moderate for a 
time. 
2.  Prices of energy and ot her commodities have d eclined somewhat in recent months, 
and Measures of  underlying inflation has have  trended lower in recent  q uarters .  
and, with substantial resource slack continuing to restrain
 cost pressures and longer-
term inflation expectations stable, inflati on is likely to be subdued for some time. 
3.  The Committee will m aintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of  the federal funds rate for an extended 
period. 
4.  The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic 
recovery and price stability.  
 
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 14 of 46AUGUST FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C  
1.  Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April June  
suggests that the economic recovery is proceeding and that the labor market is 
improving gradually.  House hold spending is increasing and but remains constrained 
by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight 
credit. business spending on equipm
ent and software has risen significantly continues  
to advance  however, investme
nt in nonresidential structures continues to be weak 
and employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls .  Financial conditions have become  
less somewhat more supportive of economic growth on balance  in recent weeks , 
largely refl ecting developments abroad. Bank lend ing has continued to contract in 
recent months.  Though  underlying inflation has trended lower,  longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained  stable.  The Committee  believes that a sustainable 
economic recovery is under way and  Nonetheless, anticip ates a gradual return to 
higher levels of resource u tilization in a context of pr ice stability, althoug
h the pace 
of economic recovery is likel y to be moderate for a time . 
2.  Prices of
 energy and oth er commodities have decline d somewhat in recent months, 
and underlying inflation has trended lowe r.  With substantial resource slack 
continuing to restrain co st pressures and longer -term inflation expectations stable, 
inflation is likely to be subdued for some time.  
2.  The Committee will decided to  maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 
0 to ¼ percent and continues to  anticipates that economic conditions, including low 
rates of resource utilization, subdued in flation trends, and stable inflation 
expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate 
for an extended period   some time.  The Committee w
ill continue its approach of 
not reinvesting payments of principa l on mortgage-backed securities and 
maturing agency debt held by the System Open Market Account.   As a further 
step toward reducing the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and the level of reserves in the banking syst em, on [September 1] the Committee will 
stop reinvesting the proceeds of maturing Treasury securities.   The Committee 
will continue to monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic recovery and price stability. 
   
1 Current practice is to reinvest principal from maturing Treasury securities into new Treasury issues, 
but to not reinvest principal from agency debt and MBS, thus generating a gradual reduction in the size of 
the SOMA portfolio and a gradual incr ease in the share of the portfolio that is held in Treasury securities. 
AlternativesTHE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B2 
The Committee may see the information on economic activity and employment 
received during the intermeeting period as indi cating a temporary “soft patch” rather than 
a more persistent slowing in the growth  of aggregate demand that would call for 
additional policy stimulus.  Members may conti nue to anticipate that the current policy 
stance will promote a gradual return to fu ll employment with underlying inflation rising, 
in future years, toward the level they see as most consistent with the dual mandate.  
Moreover, they may judge the anticipated traj ectory for the economy as the best that can 
be achieved under current circumstances, absent policy actions that they see as likely to 
prove too costly.  If so, members might decide  to maintain the existing target range for 
the federal funds rate, reite rate that economic conditions are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period, and continue 
current practices with respect to  reinvestment of principal fr om securities in the System  
Open Market Account (SOMA), as in Alternative B2.1    
                                                 
   
     
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 15 of 46The staff and ma
ny private-s
ector forecasters have read the recent data as  
warranting some downward revi sion to projections of nea r-term growth in output and 
employment but continue to forecast a pickup in the pace of recovery next year.  If 
Committee participants agree with this view, th ey may consider it appropriate to make no 
change to either the target range or fo rward guidance for the funds rate.  FOMC 
statements have, since last November, indi cated that economic conditions—particularly 
rates of resource utilization, inflation trends , and inflation expectations—will play a key 
role in determining how long the Committee wi ll target exceptionally low levels of the 
federal funds rate.  Policymakers may read th e sizable drop in money market futures rates 
during the past two intermeeting periods as i ndicating that market participants recognize 
that the period of near-zero rates is likely to be longer than previously antic ipated; if so, 
the Committee may see no need to adjust the extended period language.  Given the drop 
in longer-term rates since the June meeti ng, members might judge that the additional 
macroeconomic benefits from pushing short-term  rates even closer to zero are unlikely to 
be large enough to warrant taking the risk of disrupting the functioning of short-term  
funding markets.  Moreover, participants may want to continue the current practice of 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 16 of 46
allowing agency debt and MBS to roll off in order to make progress in normalizing the 
size and composition of the balance sheet and reducing the suppl y of reserve balances.   
Although the staff and many outside for ecasters have ma de modest downward 
revisions to their projections of near-term growth, other interp retations are plausible.  On 
the one hand, the “Virtuous Circle” alterna tive simulation in the Risks and Uncertainty  
section of Tealbook A is consistent with anothe r reading of the data:  Noise in the recent 
indicators may be masking the emergence of  a strong economic recovery that, supported 
by accommodative monetary policy and improvi ng financial conditions, eventually will 
display a mutually reinforcing cycle of  higher consumer spending and business 
investment, greater employment, improved conf idence, and increased credit availability.  
On the other hand, some statistical models ta ke a larger signal from the weak incoming 
data and predict sluggish growth in output  and employment through much of 2011, as in 
the “Weaker Recovery” alternative simulati on.  If members see uncertainty about the 
outlook as being appreciably greater than usua l, they may prefer to wait for additional 
information before adjusting either the current st ance of policy or the forward guidance.      
The statement proposed under Alternative B2 likely  would be somewhat 
disappointing to market participants.  To be sure, the Desk’s latest survey of primary 
dealers—conducted on Friday, July 30—suggested that market participants saw a high 
probability that the August statement would be quite similar to the one released in June, 
with only minor revisions to the characterization of econo mic conditions.  The dealers 
placed low odds on any immediate changes in the Committee’s asset-management 
strategy.  Nonetheless, survey respondents saw non-negligible probabilities that 
policymakers will decide to reinvest principal from MBS, change their forward guidance, 
or cut the remuneration rate  on reserve balances.  A statement along the lines of 
Alternative B2 would lower thos e probabilities, at least temp orarily, and thus likely result 
in some backup in interest rates, perhap s accompanied by a drop in equity prices and 
some appreciation in the foreign exchange value of the dollar. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B1 
If policymakers, like the staff, have marked down their near-term forecasts, they 
may see unemployment and inflation moving to ward values consistent with the dual 
mandate even more gradually than seemed likely at the time of the June meeting.  
Committee participants also may see greater downs ide risks to that outlook.  Even if they 
see the deterioration in the outlook and increase in downside risks as limited to the near 
   
2 The changes in statement language offered in Alternatives A and B1 are among those discussed in 
“Potential Enhancements to FOMC Communication,” by Gauti Eggerston, Krishna Guha, Andrew Levin, 
Steve Meyer, and Simon Potter, August 4, 2010 
Alternatives   
                                                 
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 17 of 46term, policymakers may judge that the changes are large enough to warrant some policy 
response to help keep the recovery on track.  If so, the Committee might wish to indicate 
that the period of near-zero in terest rates now appears likely  to be longer than members 
previously anticipated and longe r than investors currently seem  to expect by stating, as in 
Alternative B1, that “ex ceptionally low levels of the fede ral funds rate are likely to be 
warranted for an extended period—at least until resource utili zation and underlying 
inflation are clearly moving toward levels consistent with the Committee’s longer-term 
objectives.”  Members also might decide to keep the Federal Reserv e’s total holdings of 
Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency  MBS at its current level rather than 
allowing it to shrink over time.  Under this alternative, the Comm ittee would direct the 
Desk to reinvest all payments of principal on such instruments in longer-term Treasuries.   
The steps included in Alternative B1  likely would generate a reduction in 
interm
ediate- and longer-term interest rates as market participan ts revised down their 
expectations for the path of the federal funds rate over the cour se of the next year or so 
and revised up their expectati ons of the amount of longer-ter m assets that the Federal 
Reserve will hold.  The changes in statement language and reinvestment policy under this 
alternative likely would reinforce investors’ sense that policymakers have become less 
focused on preparing to exit from the period of exceptionally accommodative monetary policy and are now more concerned about s purring growth and preventing further 
disinflation.  The Desk’s latest  survey of primary dealers sh owed that the dealers saw the 
first increase in the federal funds  rate target as most likely to  come in the third quarter of 
2011.  However, dealers also saw sizable probab ilities that the firs t increase would occur 
in either of the previous two quarters or in either of the subseque nt two quarters.  An 
estimate of market participants’ beliefs deri ved from interest rate derivatives yields 
similar results.  If Committee members see littl e chance that it will be appropriate to raise 
the funds rate target before the fall of 2011, then they might wish to bring investors’ 
projections for the funds rate into closer  alignment with their own expectations by 
modifying the forward guidance along th e lines suggested in Alternative B1.
2 
The dealer survey indicates that the la nguage of Alternative B1 would come as 
som
ething of a surprise to market participants  and thus could persuade  them that the odds 
on an early increase in the federal funds rate  are smaller than they had thought.  The 
3 The staff’s current baseline bala nce sheet projection, which—like pr evious projections—takes as an 
input the baseline interest rate assumptions in the Tealbook forecast for the eco nomy, shows a $150 billion 
larger drop in MBS holdings by the end of 2012 than did the baseline projection in the June Tealbook. The 
revision reflects the decline in mortgage rates since th e last FOMC meeting, which has raised the actual and 
expected number of refinancings.  For a discussion of issues related to reinvesting principal payments from 
MBS, see “Assessment of the Effects of MBS Paydowns and Reinvestment Options,” by Joshua Frost, Jane 
Ihrig, Jaime Marquez, Jeffrey Moore, and Julie Remache, August 4, 2010. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
   
  
    
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 18 of 46addition of “clearly moving toward” would si gnal that the Committee would want to see 
sustained progress toward its long-run objectives before rais ing rates.  Investors likely 
would notice the words “at least until” a nd understand that the Committee had retained 
the option of holding the funds rate quite low even after the data clearly show 
unemployment and inflation moving in the right direction.  The resulting reduction in the 
perceived probability of an increase in the f unds rate during the firs t half of 2011, even if 
not accompanied by a change in market participants’ modal forecast of the timing of the first increase, likely would generate some d ecline in medium- and longer-term yields.  
That decline could, however, be modest if investors thought that a longer period of 
exceptionally low federal funds rates would be  offset by a more rapid increase in the 
target rate thereafter.  
Alternative B1 would also  reduce longer-term
  rates by preventing the gradual 
decline in the amount of longer- term securities held  in the SOMA that will occur if the 
Committee continues its current policy of not reinvesting principal payments received on agency debt and MBS.  The statement for A lternative B1 would say that “the Committee 
will maintain the Federal Reserve’s holdings of longer-term securitie s at their current  
level by reinvesting principal payments from  agency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities in Treasury securities” and would note that the Committee will continue to roll 
over its holdings of Treasury securities as they  mature.  The staff projects that, with no 
change in reinvestment policy, repayments of principal from MBS and agency debt 
would reduce SOMA holdings of such secu rities by approximately $500 billion by the 
end of 2012.
3  If, instead, the Committee were to announce that principal from MBS and 
agency debt would be reinvested in longer-t erm Treasury coupon securities to maintain 
the SOMA’s holdings of longer- term  assets at their curr ent level, and if market 
participants expected that policy to be in place through 2012 and understood its 
implications for the portfolio, the staff estimat es that longer-term ra tes could fall about  
20 basis points.  This estimate is quite uncer tain and may be oversta ted, in part because  
it is based on market reactions to FOMC a nnouncements about asset purchases that were 
made when financial market functioning was impaired and investors’ concerns about the 
   
4 For a discussion of issues associated with reducing the remuneration rate on excess reserves, see 
“Reducing the IOER Rate:  An Analysis of Options,” by Chris Burke, Spence Hilton, Ruth Judson, Kurt 
Lewis, and David Skeie, August 4, 2010. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
  
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 19 of 46economic and financial outlook were particular ly large.  Though the magnitude of the 
effect is uncertain, the directi on is clear:  Longer-term interest  rates would be expected to 
decline.  Equity prices likely  would rise somewhat, and the foreign exchange value of the 
dollar probably w ould decline. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
Committee members may see the information that became available during the 
intermeeting period not only as pointing toward  somewhat slower grow th this year than  
they previously had anticipated  but also as indicating a si gnificantly highe r likelihood of 
a sharper or more persistent deceleration in  economic activity.  Alternatively, they may 
view the incoming data as c onfirming earlier concerns that the recovery would proceed 
too slowly.  In addition, policymakers may s ee a growing risk that underlying inflation 
will remain on a downward trend and that infl ation expectations will drift down as well, 
as in the “Greater Disinflati on” alternative simulation in the Tealbook.  For any of these 
reasons, members might find it appropriate to  take further action now and to send a 
strong signal about their future intentions.   
Under Alternative A, the Committee woul d explicitly state its view that the 
recovery is proceeding at an uns atisfactory pace and that infla tion is likely to remain, for 
some time, below levels the Committee consid ers consistent with th e dual mandate.  This 
language would emphasize that Federal Reserv e policymakers are aiming for a pickup in 
growth and inflation in the medium term.  Against that backdrop, the Committee would 
not only begin reinvesting all principal paym ents on securities held in the SOMA to 
prevent a further reduction in the size of the por tfolio, it also would lower the target range 
for the federal funds rate to 0 to ⅛ percent.  Moreover, the Committee would state that it 
anticipates maintaining this new target rang e “until resource util ization and underlying 
inflation have moved appreciably closer to  levels consistent with its longer-term  
objectives,” thus signaling that it does not expect to raise its target for the federal funds 
rate quickly once growth stre ngthens or inflation edges up.  To encourage a drop in the 
effective funds rate consistent with the change in the target range, the Board would cut 
the interest rates paid on required and excess reserve balances to 10 basis points.4 
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 20 of 46
Even if they do not think that the recent data suggest a significant risk that growth 
will slow further or that inflation and infla tion expectations will drift down, policymakers 
might judge that further policy stimulus w ould be desirable to help support a stronger 
recovery.  Moreover, they might conclude that, in light of investors’ concerns about fiscal 
sustainability, there is little scope for increased fiscal stimulus in the United States and 
that a shift to less expansionary fiscal pol icy is the more likely outcome; consequently, 
they may see additional monetary stimulus as warranted. 
The staff anticipates that the cuts in th e target range and the rem uneration rates on 
reserve balances specified unde r Alternative A would leave the effective federal funds 
rate trading in a range of 5 to 10 basis points—about 10 ba sis points below its recent 
trading range—with similar reductions in general collateral repo rates and Libor.  
Reducing money market rates to this ra nge would not, in the staff’s view, pose 
insurmountable problems for the functioning of thes e markets or for financial institutions.     
While a 10 basis point drop in short-term  interest rates would not, by itself, 
provide significant macroeconomic stimulus, the combination of rate cuts and language 
changes in Alternative A could do so.  Indee d, by stating that it anticipates keeping the 
funds rate near zero until both resource uti lization and inflation ha ve moved appreciably 
closer to levels consistent with its longer-run objectives, the Committee could help prevent a downward drift in e xpected inflation that would ra ise short-term real interest  
rates.   
The Desk’s recent survey of primary deal ers indicates that market participants 
attach a low probability to an outcome such as that in Alternative A.  Investors would be  
surprised not only by the forcef ul language but also by th e Committee’s decision to cut 
rates.  In combination, the components of Alternative A seem likely to generate a 
meaningful reduction in medium- and longer- term nominal interest rates by reducing 
investors’ expectations of future short-term  rates.  The drop in longer-term rates would be 
reinforced by the reduction in term premiums that would result from reinvesting principal payments received on MBS and agency debt (in addition to principal on maturing 
Treasury securities) held in the SOMA.  As noted in the discussion of Alternative B1,  
the staff estimates that reinvesting the r oughly $500 billion of agency debt and MBS 
principal that is projected to be repaid by the end of 2012 could reduce longer-term yields 
by about 20 basis points.  The decline in longe r-term nominal yields might be offset to 
some extent by an increase in inflation compensation, if investors concluded that 
5 The Committee could, for example,  sell the shorter-term debt in the SOMA portfolio and buy longer-
term Treasury notes and bonds. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 21 of 46sustained monetary stimulus was likely to complicate the eventual exit from the period of  
exceptionally accommodative monetary policy and so lead to higher inflation.  If 
investors thought that the Committee’s adopt ion of Alternative A would lead to a 
stronger recovery, equity prices probably would rise.  The foreign exchange value of the 
dollar likely would likely decline.   
As noted earlier, the effect on market rate s that would result fr om the change in 
reinvestment policy under Alternatives A and B2 might well be smaller than the staff 
estimates.  Thus, if members considered it  appropriate to respond to evolving economic 
conditions by providing further monetary stimulus, the Committee could decide to 
resume large-scale purchases of longer-term a ssets to expand the SOMA portfolio or take 
other steps that would remove duration from  the market and thus reduce term premiums.5   
However, such steps would increase the Federal Reserve’s exposure to the risk of capital 
losses if market rates were to rise sooner  or more sharply than expected and could 
complicate the eventual exit from highly accommodative monetary policy. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
If policymakers are concerned that prol onging the period of near-zero interest 
rates could contribute to macroeconomic or financial imbalances, they might wish to 
indicate that the time for an increase in intere st rates is drawing near.  Such a step might 
be particularly appropriate if  members see the recent data as most likely indicative of a 
“soft patch” in the recovery and if they are confident that solidly anchored inflation 
expectations will prevent a prolonged disinflati on and facilitate the return of inflation 
toward levels seen as most consistent with th e dual mandate.  In line with such views, the 
statement under Alternative C would note the Committee’s belief that a sustainable economic recovery is under way and signal an approaching increase in rates by changing 
the Committee’s forward guidance to state that the funds rate is lik ely to remain at  
low levels for some time.  Such a change in the statement language would likely be read 
as indicating that the Committee’s conditional commitment to the current target range no 
longer extends to future meetings.   
Committee participants may have a more positive assessment of the outlook than 
does the staff, perhaps on the view that the recent weakness in the economic data is largely noise or simply indicates a tempor ary deceleration.  More over, members might 
6 The staff estimates that a policy of allowing all maturing Treasury securities held in the SOMA to roll 
off would reduce the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury bills, notes, and bonds—and the supply of 
reserve balances—by about $110 billion by the end of 2011 and an additional $160 billion by the end of 
2012.  For a discussion of issues related to allowing  maturing Treasury secur ities to roll off, see “SOMA 
Treasury Redemption and Reinvestment Policy,” by Michelle Ezer, Joshua Frost, Frank M. Keane, Julie A. Remache, and Brian P. Sack, June 16, 2010. 
7 This estimate, like that of the effect of reinvesting principal from MBS, is uncertain and reflects 
market reactions to FOMC announcem ents about asset purchases that were made when financial market 
functioning was impaired. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
 
 
     
  
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 22 of 46think that a large part of the reduction in output and em ployment during the recession 
reflects a persistent adverse s upply shock rather than a shor tfall in demand, as in the 
“Lower Potential” alte rnative simulation, and hence judge that there is less resource slack 
than shown in the staff forecast.  If so, policymakers might conclude that there is no need 
to maintain an exceptionally accommodative stance of monetary po licy, particularly if  
they expect actual inflation to move up to ward longer-term expected inflation and see 
little likelihood of cont inuing disinflation.  Accordingly, policymakers mi ght see a policy 
of allowing maturing Treasury securities to roll off as important for putting reserve 
balances on a steeper downward path that will support increased money market interest 
rates in the not-too-distant future.6  Thus, the statement for Alternative C would announce 
such a change in the Committee’ s portfolio management policy. 
An announcement along the lines of the statement under Alternative C would 
greatly surprise inv
estors.  The Desk’s most recent survey of primary dealers found that 
dealers place near-zero odds  on the Committee dropping the “extended period” language 
or adopting a policy of no longer reinvesting maturing Treasury securi ties at the current 
meeting.  The changes to the statement envisioned under Alternative C would lead 
market participants to conclude that the Committee was likely to increase its target for the federal funds rate much sooner than had b een anticipated and thus would shift the 
expected funds rate path up.  Moreover, the staff estimates that announcing a policy of  
no longer rolling over maturing Treasury securi ties could directly in crease longer-term 
interest rates about 10 to 15 basis points.
7  Consequently, interest  rates would likely rise 
across the yield curve, though forward measures of inflation compensation might move 
down, lessening the rise in longe r-term nominal rates, if the statement led investors to 
further reduce their assessment of the longer- term inflation outlook.  Participants might 
view an upward shift in the yield curve as he lpful in reducing the risk of new financial 
imbalances.  Equity prices likely would fall and the dollar probably would appreciate.  
 
8 The composition of Federal Reserve assets in these projections differs notably at times from historical 
patterns.  Prior to August 2007, U.S. Treasury secur ities were about 90 percent of assets, and the Federal 
Reserve did not hold any agency debt or MBS.  By contrast, under the baseline scenario, Treasury 
securities are projected to account for only around 35 percent of total assets at the end of 2010.  However, 
by the end of 2020, Treasury securities in the SOMA  portfolio account for 96 percent of total assets. 
Alternatives   
 
                                                 
  
    
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 23 of 46LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE    
The staff have prepared three scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet 
that correspond to the policy a lternatives presented above:  a baseline scenario that 
corresponds to Alternat ive B2, a second scenario that co rresponds to Alternatives A  
and B1, and a third scenario that corresponds to Alternative C.  Projections under each 
scenario are based on assumptions about each co mponent of the balance sheet.  Details  
of these assumptions are described in Explanatory Note C. 
Under all three scenarios, the balance sheet declines from its May 2010 peak of 
$2.34 trillion in May 2010 and continues to cont ract for a number of years as securities 
mature, prepay, or are sold, or as credit ex tensions are repaid; however, the rate of 
contraction differs depending on whether th e principal payments from assets are 
reinvested.  After reserve balances hit the assumed $25 billion floor and the U.S. 
Treasury’s supplementary financing account has been drained, the balance sheet begins  
to expand as purchases of Treasury securities match the growth of Federal Reserve 
capital and notes in circulation.  In all three scenarios, the balance sheet reaches a size  
of about $1.8 trillion by the end of 2020.8 
In the scenario that corresponds to Alte rnative B2, the FOMC continues to allow 
agency MBS and agency debt securities to ro
ll off as they mature or are prepaid.  In this 
baseline scenario, we assume that the FOMC begins asset sales in the second quarter of 
9 The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate lifts off in the fourth quarter of 2012.  
The baseline balance sheet projection assumes that the to ols to drain reserve balances (reverse repurchase 
agreements and the term deposit facility) are not used. 
10 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the amount of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five year period is minimal. 
11 The reinvestment of proceeds from agency MBS and agency debt may have an impact on the timing 
of the lift off in the federal funds rate; however, for simplicity, this exercise does not incorporate this 
potential feedback effect on the path of the federal funds rate. 
Alternatives   
                                                 
   
   
 
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 24 of 462013, six months after the assumed rise in the target federal funds rate.9  Specifically,  
beginning at that time, holdings of agency MB S and agency debt securities are reduced 
over five years and reach zero in the first quarter of 2018.10  All Treasury securities are 
rolled over as they mature, continuing current practice. 
Under the scenario that corresponds to A lternatives A and B1, the Desk reinvests 
the principal payments from
 Treasury coupon instruments, agency MBS, and agency debt 
securities in Treasury coupon securities to prevent a decline in the System’s total 
holdings of longer-term instruments until the target federal funds rate increases in the 
fourth quarter of 2012.11  Despite this reinvestment, total assets decline some over this 
period as credit extensions ar e repaid.  After the target federal funds rate increases, 
agency MBS and agency debt holdings are allowed to mature or prepay without 
reinvestment.  As in the baseline scenario, all Treasury securities are rolled over as they 
mature, and sales of agency MBS and agency debt securities commence in the second  
quarter of 2013.  Also as in the baseline, holdings of agency MBS and agency debt 
securities are reduced for five years until they fall to zero.  
In the scenario that corresponds to Alte rnative C, agency MBS and agency debt 
securities are treated as in the baseline scenario.  Treasury se curities, however, are 
allowed to run off as they matu re beginning in September of 2010. 
Under the baseline, total assets are proj ected to be substantially lower over the 
next few years than in the baseline projection th at was presented in June .  This revision  
is mainly driven by higher forecasted prepay ments of agency MBS that, in turn, reflect 
the lower level of current and projected mortgage  rates relative to th e previous Tealbook.   
However, that downward shift is partly offs et by the effects of postponing the initiation 
of asset sales by one quarter du e to the change in the staff’s assumed path for the federal 
funds rate.  The path of total assets is also projected to be  slightly lower later in the 
decade due to a modest downward revision in th e projected path of Federal Reserve notes 
 
12 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock currency 
over the near term.  In the longer term, Federal Rese rve notes in circulation grow at the same rate as 
nominal GDP.  The current path for Federal Reserve notes in circulation is lower relative to the previous 
projection in large part because the staff’s forecast for mone y stock currency for 2012  was incorporated for 
the first time this round. 
Alternatives   
 
 
            
 
    
                                                 
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 25 of 46in circulation and a corresponding shift in the projection of the Federal Reserve’s 
holdings of Treasury securities.12 
On the liability side of the balance sheet, under the base line, reserve balances are 
lower initially than in the previous projec tion because of the dow nward revision to the 
agency MBS forecast path.  This downward revision is offset somewhat over the medium  
term by an increased level of holdings of agency MBS, as implied by the one-quarter 
delay in the sales of these securities.  As a result, the U.S. Treasury’s supplementary 
financing account falls to zer o in early 2015—the same timin g as in the June Tealbook. 
Under the baseline scenario, the monetary base is projected to contract, on net, 
through 2014; this path largely mirrors that of  reserve balances.  In particular, Federal 
Reserve notes in circulation are projected to  follow a fairly stea dy upward trajectory, and 
hence the monetary base contracts as reserve balances fall.  Once reserve balances reach 
$25 billion and stabilize at that level, the monetary base star ts rising roughly  in parallel 
with the amount of Federal Re serve notes in circulation. 
End-of-Year 
Jun 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
$ Billions 
Total assets 2,334 2,177 1,678 1,348 1,485 1,648 1,841 
Selected assets: 
L i q u i d i t y  p r o g r a m s  f o r f i n a n c i a l f i r m s 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 
P r i m a r y , s e c o n d a r y ,  a n d  s e a s o n a l c r e d i t 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 
C e n t r a l  b a n k  l i q u i d i t y s w a p s 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 
L e n d i n g  t h o u g h  o t h e r c r e d i t f a c i l i t i e s 4 2 4 1 1 2 2 0 0 0 
T e r m  A s s e t - B a c k e d S e c u r i t i e s  L o a n  F a c i l i t y ( T A L F ) 4 2 4 1 1 2 2 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 118 102 31 1 3 5 0 0 
C r e d i t e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 5 0 4 9 0 0 0 0 0 
6 7 5 3 3 1 1 3 5 0 0 
Securities held outright 2,060 1,929 1,544 1,252 1,406 1,577 1,773 
U.S. Treasury securities 777 775 775 775 1,221 1,577 1,773 
Agency debt securities 165 147 77 39 16 0 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,118 1,007 692 438 169 0 0 
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7 
N e t p o r t f o l i o  h o l d i n g s o f  T A L F  L L C 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 112 103 89 78 72 69 66 
Total liabilities 2,278 2,118 1,600 1,245 1,349 1,468 1,603 
Selected liabilities: 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 904 919 981 1,119 1,241 1,360 1,495 
Reverse repurchase agreements with foreign official 
and international accounts 67 67 59 59 59 59 59 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,263 1,113 546 53 35 35 35
 Reserve balances held by depository institutions 972 831 336 25 25 25 25
 U.S. Treasury, general account 88 8 0 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 1 8 0 0 0 
Total capital 56 59 78 103 136 180 239 
Source. Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations. Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC Federal Reserve Balance Sheet 
End-of-Year Projections -- Baseline Scenario 
Alternatives   
 
 
 
   
                 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
     …              
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 26 of 46
Jan-10 -17.8 -17.8 -17.8 
Feb-10 72.2 72.2 72.2 
Mar-10 -19.7 -19.7 -19.7 
Apr-10 -37.6 -37.6 -37.6 
May-10 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0 
Jun-10 -5.8 -5.8 -5.8 
Jul-10 27.1 29.7 27.3 
Aug-10 10.4 19.0 10.6 
Sep-10 -33.8 -20.6 -40.3 
Oct-10 -19.8 -3.9 -27.6 
Nov-10 -9.2 7.0 -12.0 
Dec-10 -29.4 -14.3 -33.3 
Q1 2010 14.0 14.0 14.0 Q2 2010 -10.4 -10.4 -10.4 
Q3 2010 6.0 10.3 5.4 
Q4 2010 -18.1 -3.9 -23.0 
2009 41.5 41.5 41.5 2010 -2.3 2.4 -3.7 
2011 -13.3 -0.1 -17.1 
2012 -13.2 -4.3 -23.2 2013 -11.8 -8.8 -2.8 
Note. Not seasonally adjusted. Percent, annual rate 
Monthly 
Quarterly 
Annual - Q4 to Q4 Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Baseline Alternative A 
and B1 Alternative C 
Alternatives   
 
  
 
    
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 27 of 46
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 28 of 46
DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS    
Domestic nonfinancial sector  debt is projected to e xpand on average at an annual 
rate of about 4¾ percent during the second half of this year , with private-sector debt 
rising only slightly and government debt gr owing rapidly, and is expected to grow  
5 percent in 2011.  In spite of historically  low mortgage rates, sluggish housing demand 
is projected to weigh heavily on the growth of  residential mortgage debt through the first 
half of 2011.  After declining a bit further in the current quarter,  consumer credit is 
expected to pick up late this year and expand at a moderate pace in 2011, supported by a 
gradual increase in spending on consumer durables.  Alt hough standards and terms for 
bank loans appear to be easing somewhat, lending conditions nonetheless remain tight, 
and the relatively low projected level of cap ital spending and firms’ very high holdings of 
liquid assets suggest continued weak demand for funding.  Consequently, borrowing by 
nonfinancial businesses is expected to be tepid, with debt in this se ctor increasing about  
2 percent over the second half of 2010 and at  a slightly faster pace next year.  Federal 
government debt is projected to grow at a double-digit rate over th e remainder of this 
year and in 2011.   
Commercial bank credit is expected to be  about flat in the current quarter, as 
continued declines in loans ar e offset by robust growth in securities holdings.  After 
running off for 2010 as a whole, however, bank credit is projected to  increase about  
3¼ percent in 2011 as modest loan growth re sumes and securities continue to expand.  
Commercial and industrial loan s are expected to stop falli ng next quarter, but growth 
remains subdued throughout the forecast period.  Consumer loans at banks are projected 
to be about flat in the second half of 2010 and then increase modestly in 2011.  By 
contrast, real estate loans are expected to c ontinue contracting thr ough the first quarter of 
next year before recovering slowly over the remainder of the forecast period.  Poor 
fundamentals for nonresidential structures, al ong with elevated charge-offs of troubled 
loans, should result in continued declines in banks’ commercial real estate loan 
portfolios.  Banks’ securities holdings are projected to expand at a moderate pace over 
the forecast period as banks continue to favor safe and liquid investments amid weak loan 
demand. 
M2 is expected to continue to expand at a slower pace than nominal GDP over the 
forecast period as financial strains and the associated safe-haven demands for M2 assets unwind.  Small time deposits and retail money market funds are projected to run off 
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast* 
Jan-10 -7.9 
Feb-10 8.7 
Mar-10 -3.4 
Apr-10 -3.9 
May-10 11.6 
Jun-10 4.4 
Jul-10 -0.8 
Aug-10 1.5 
Sep-10 1.6 
Oct-10 1.5 
Nov-10 1.7 
Dec-10 1.7 
Quarterly Growth Rates 
2010 Q1 0.0 
2010 Q2 2.0 
2010 Q3 2.5 
2010 Q4 1.6 
Annual Growth Rates 
2009 5.1 
2010 1.5 
2011 2.5 Growth Rates for M2 
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
* This forecast is consistent with nominal GDP and interest rates in the Tealbook 
forecast.  Actual data through July 2010; projections thereafter. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 29 of 46
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 30 of 46through 2011, though with a moderating pace of d ecline.  Growth of liquid deposits is 
expected to slow somewhat further from  its robust 2009 pace but remain solid over the 
forecast period.  Currency growth  is projected to stay s ubdued as precautionary demand 
for U.S. dollars wanes. 
Alternatives   
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 31 of 46DIRECTIVE   
The June directive appears below.  Dr afts for an August directive corresponding 
to each of the four policy a lternatives appear on subsequent pages. The directive for 
Alternatives A and B1 would instruct the Desk  to maintain the SOMA’s total holdings of  
longer-term securities at roughly its current level by reinvesting repayments of principal 
from agency debt and MBS, and from Tr easury coupon securities, in Treasury coupon 
issues, effective September 1.  The directive fo r Alternative C would in struct the Desk to 
stop reinvesting the proceeds of maturing Tr easury securities, effective September 1. 
June 2010 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent. The Committee directs the Desk to 
engage in dollar roll and coupon sw ap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of 
the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transact ions. The System Open Market Account 
Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments 
regarding the System's balance sheet that co uld affect the attainment over time of the 
Committee's objectives of maximum em ployment and price stability. 
Alternatives  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 32 of 46   
August 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼  ⅛ percent.  The Committee directs the 
Desk to purchase longer-term Treasury secu rities during the interme
eting period to 
maintain the total face value of the System Open Market Account’s holdings of 
Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency mortgage-backed securities at 
approximately $2 trillion.   The Committee directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and 
coupon swap  transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s 
agency MBS transactions.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of  
maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 33 of 46August 2010 FOMC Direct ive — Alternative B1 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk  
to purchase longer-term Treasury securiti es d
uring the intermeeting period to 
maintain the total face value of the System Open Market Account’s holdings of 
Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency mortgage-backed securities at 
approximately $2 trillion.   The Committee directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and 
coupon swap  transactio
ns as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s 
agency MBS transactions.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Co mmittee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability.  
Alternatives   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 34 of 46August 2010 FOMC Direct ive — Alternative B2 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
engage in dollar roll and coupon swap  transactions as necessary to  facilitate settlement of 
the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transact ions.  The System Open Market Account 
Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments 
regarding the System’s balance sheet that co uld affect the attainment over time of the 
Committee’s objectives of maximum em ployment and price stability.  
Alternatives   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 35 of 46June 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
engage in dollar roll and coupon swap  transactions as necessary to  facilitate settlement of 
the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.   To gradually reduce the size of the 
Federal Reserve’s balance sheet ov
er time , the Committee directs the Desk to not 
reinvest the proceeds of maturing Treasury  securities held by the System Open 
Market Account, effective September 1, 2010, and to maintain its practice of not 
reinvesting the proceeds of maturing agency debt and payments on agency 
mortgage-backed securities held by the System Open Market Account.  The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secr etary will keep the Comm
ittee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System’s  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee’s obj ectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
(This page is  intentionally blank.) 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 36 of 46
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy— 
depend on data for major spending categories, price and wages, and the federal funds rate as well as the model’ s structure and estimate of the output 
gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented—based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the 
output gap conditional on the extended baseline. 
Explanatory Notes 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 37 of 46Explanatory Notes  
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The equilibrium real rate is the real federa l funds rate that, if maintained, would be 
projected to return output to its potential level over time.  The short-run equilibrium rate is 
defined as the rate that would close the output  gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding 
model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal 
funds rate projected to keep output at poten tial in seven years, under the assumption that 
monetary policy acts to bring actual and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps 
them equal thereafter.  The TIPS-based factor model measure provides an estimate of market 
expectations for the real federal funds rate seven years ahead.  
Proxy used for  
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current val
ue) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Tealbook 
projected  
real funds rate 
(avg. over next 
twelve quarters) 
Lagged core inflation -1.4 -2.3 -0.7 
Lagged headline 
inflation -1.8 -2.5 -0.9 
Projected headline inflation -1.1 -2.4 -0.8 
Explanatory Notes   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 38 of 46Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the nominal 
rate and realized inflation, where the nominal ra te is measured as the quarterly average of the 
observed federal funds rate, and r ealized inflation is given by the log difference between the core 
PCE price index and its lagged value four quarter s earlier.  If the upcoming FOMC meeting falls 
early in the quarter, the lagged inflation measure e nds in the last quarter.  For the current quarter, 
the nominal rate is specified as the target fede ral funds rate on the Tealbook publication date.   
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on t he proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimated real federal funds  rates based on lagged core PCE inflation, the 
definition used in the Equilibrium Real Federa l Funds Rate chart; lagged four-quarter headline 
PCE inflation; and projected four-quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  
For each estimate of the real rate, the table also provides the Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based 
measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate a nd the projected average real federal funds rate 
over the next twelve quarters. 
ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
  ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ 
ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ 
ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ 
Explanatory Notes   
 
        
 
        
 
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 39 of 46B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS   
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the 
explanatory variables include the staff’s projecti on of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation  
(ߨ௧), inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧  and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period 
and one quarter ahead (   ݕ௧െ ככ ݕ 
௧ and  ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ െ ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ ), and the three-quarter-ahead forecast of 
annual average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕସכ
௧ାଷ|௧ െ Δݕ௧ାଷ|௧ ), and denotes an assumed 
value of policymakers’ long-run inflation objectiv e.  The outcom
e-based and forecast-based rules 
were estimated using real-time data over the sample 1988:1-2006:4; each specification was 
chosen using the Bayesian information criterion. Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in 
the intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point increments during the first three quarters of 1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed  by Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of 
the first-difference rule do not depend on assumptions regarding r* or the level of the output gap; 
see Orphanides (2003).    
Outcome-based rule  ݅
௧ 
Forecast-based rule  ݅௧ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅௧ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅௧ 
First-difference rule  ݅௧ 
FRB/US MODEL SIMULATIONS   
Prescriptions from the two empirical rules are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969-2008.  
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL MARKETS    
The expected funds rate path is based on Eurodollar quotes and implied three-month 
forward rates from  swaps, and the confidence interv als for this path are constructed using prices 
of interest rate caps.  
Explanatory Notes   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 40 of 46NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap. Because the first-difference rule involves the lagged funds rate, the value labeled “Previous 
Tealbook” for the current quarter is computed usi ng the actual value of the lagged funds rate, and 
the one-quarter-ahead prescriptions are based on this rule’s prescription for the current quarter.  
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John  B. (1993). “Discretion versus policy rules in practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195-214.  
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules. The University  of Chicago Press, pp. 319-341. 
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary  Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983-1022.  
 
1 Prepayments include regular payments of principal and repayments of mortgages. 
Explanatory Notes   
                                                 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 41 of 46C. Long-run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section entitled “Long-Run Projections of th e Balance Sheet and Monetary Base.” 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are constructe d on a monthly frequency from July 2010 to 
December 2020.  The few balance sheet items th at are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level ob served on June 30, 2010.  The projections for all 
major asset and liability categories under the base line scenario are summarized in the table that 
follows the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate begins to increase in the 
fourth quarter of 2012.  The balance sheet projections assume that no use of short-term draining 
tools is necessary to achieve the project ed path for the federal funds rate. 
ASSETS  
Treasury securities, agency MBS, and agency debt 
  The baseline scenario, which co rresponds to Alternative B2. 
o  Prepayments of MBS and maturing agency  debt are not reinvested.1 
o  The Federal Reserve will begin to sell a
gency MBS and agency debt securities 
six months after the FOMC begins to increase the federal funds rate.  
Commencing in the second quarter of 2013, the holdings of these securities are 
reduced over five years and reach zero in the second quarter of 2018. 
o  Due to expected settlement lags and prepayments, agency MBS holdings peak at 
$1.1 trillion in June 2010, a somewhat lower level than the amount purchased.  For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment  is based on estimates from one of the 
program’s investment managers.  Such estimates are sensitive to the assumptions 
on which they are predicated. 
o  Holdings of agency  debt securities peak ed at $169 billion in March 2010 and 
decline slowly thereafter as holdings continue to mature or are sold.  
o  Treasury securities held in the SOMA portf olio are reinvested as they mature.  
The current weighted average maturity of Treasury securities is about seven 
years.   
Explanatory Notes   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 42 of 46
  Under Alternatives A and B1, in addition to reinvesting Treasury securities as they  
mature, the Committee reinvests the proceeds received from  maturing agency debt and 
maturing and prepaying agency MBS in Treasury coupon securities to prevent a drop in  
the System’s total holdings of longer-term inst ruments.  Once the target federal funds rate 
increases in the fourth quarter of 2012, agen cy MBS and agency debt holdings continue 
to decline as these assets mature or prepay; however, the proceeds are no longer invested 
in any instrument.  As in the baseline scenario, sales of agency MBS and agency debt 
securities commence in the second quarter of 2013, and these securities are reduced over 
five years until the holdings fall to zero. 
  Under Alternative C, the Committee allows Trea sury  securities, agency MBS, and agency 
debt securities to prepay or to redeem as th ey mature.  As in the baseline scenario, sales 
of agency MBS and agency debt securities commence in the second quarter of 2013, and 
these securities are reduced over five years until the holdings fall to zero. 
  In all scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  In all 
scenarios, to ensure that reserve balances do not fall below this minimum level, first the 
U.S. Treasury’s supplementary financing account (SFA) is reduced.  After the SFA declines to zero, Treasury  bills are purchased .  Purchases of bills continue until these 
securities comprise one-third of the Federal Re serve’s total Treasury  holdings.  Once this 
threshold it met, the Federal Reserve buys notes and bonds in addition to bills in order to 
keep bills at one-third of  total Treasury holdings. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
  Loans through the Term  Asset -Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) peaked at $48 
billion in December 2009.  Credit extended thro ugh this facility declines to zero in the 
fourth quarter of 2015, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
  The assets held by TALF LLC increase to $1 billion by the end of 2011 and remain at that level through December 2014, before dec lining to zero thereafter.  Assets held by  
TALF LLC consist of investments of commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the Federal R eserve Bank of New York in connection with 
a decision of a borrower not to repay a TALF loan.  
  Central bank liquidity swap lines are projected to hold steady at $1 billion until  dropping 
to zero in November 2010.   
  Credit extended to AIG, the sum of the Fede ral Reserve Bank of New York’s extension 
of revolving credit and its preferred interest s in AIA Aurora LLC and ALICO Holdings 
LLC, increases slightly to $54 billion in Novemb er 2010 and then declines to zero by the 
end of 2012.  
  The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC, Maid en Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 
are sold over time and reach either zero or a nominal level by the end of 2016.   
2 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of both 
the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Tr easury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is a good proxy 
for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
  
                                                 
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 43 of 46LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
  Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the end of 2012.  From 2013 to  the end of the projection period, Federal 
Reserve notes in circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as projected in the 
extended Tealbook forecast. 
  The U.S. Treasury’s general account (TGA) follows the staff forecast for end-of-month 
U.S. Treasury operating cash balances through the first quarter of 2011.2  At that point, 
the TGA drops back to its historical target level of $5 billion as it is assumed that the Treasury will have implemented a new cash mana gement system that allows it to invest 
funds in excess of $5 billion.  The TGA remain s constant at $5 billion over the remainder 
of the forecast period. 
  Balances in the SFA remain at their current  level until the SFA is reduced to ensure 
reserve balance levels do not fall below $25 billion. 
  Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
  In general, increases in the level of assets of the Federal Reserve generate higher levels of 
reserve balances.  Increases in the levels of  other liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or the Treasury’s  general account, like increases in the level of 
Reserve Bank capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability  or capital 
items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 billion, purchases of 
Treasury securities are assumed in order to ma intain that level of reserve balances. 
End-of-Year 
Jun 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
$ Billions 
Total assets 2,334 2,177 1,678 1,348 1,485 1,648 1,841 
Selected assets: 
L i q u i d i t y  p r o g r a m s  f o r f i n a n c i a l f i r m s 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 
P r i m a r y , s e c o n d a r y ,  a n d  s e a s o n a l c r e d i t 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 
C e n t r a l  b a n k  l i q u i d i t y s w a p s 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 
L e n d i n g  t h o u g h  o t h e r c r e d i t f a c i l i t i e s 4 2 4 1 1 2 2 0 0 0 
T e r m  A s s e t - B a c k e d S e c u r i t i e s  L o a n  F a c i l i t y ( T A L F ) 4 2 4 1 1 2 2 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 118 102 31 1 3 5 0 0 
C r e d i t e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 5 0 4 9 0 0 0 0 0 
6 7 5 3 3 1 1 3 5 0 0 
Securities held outright 2,060 1,929 1,544 1,252 1,406 1,577 1,773 
U.S. Treasury securities 777 775 775 775 1,221 1,577 1,773 
Agency debt securities 165 147 77 39 16 0 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,118 1,007 692 438 169 0 0 
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7 
N e t p o r t f o l i o  h o l d i n g s o f  T A L F  L L C 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 112 103 89 78 72 69 66 
Total liabilities 2,278 2,118 1,600 1,245 1,349 1,468 1,603 
Selected liabilities: 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 904 919 981 1,119 1,241 1,360 1,495 
Reverse repurchase agreements with foreign official 
and international accounts 67 67 59 59 59 59 59 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,263 1,113 546 53 35 35 35
 Reserve balances held by depository institutions 972 831 336 25 25 25 25
 U.S. Treasury, general account 88 8 0 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 1 8 0 0 0 
Total capital 56 59 78 103 136 180 239 
Source. Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations. Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC Federal Reserve Balance Sheet 
End-of-Year Projections -- Baseline Scenario 
Explanatory Notes   
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
     …              
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Page 44 of 46
 
 
 
 
 
Page 45 of 46   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010
Abbreviations 
ABS asset-backed  securities  
AFE advanced foreign economy 
ARRA American Recovery and Reinvestm
ent Act 
BEA Bureau of Economic Analysis 
CDS credit default swap 
C&I commercial and industrial
CMBS commercial mortgage-backed securities 
CPI consumer price index 
CRE commercial real estate  
DSGE dynamic stochastic  general equilibrium 
EC European CommissionECB European Central Bank 
ECI Employment Cost Index 
EDO 
Model Estimated Dynamic Optimization-Based Model 
EEB extended and emergency unem
 ployment benefits 
EME emerging market economy 
EONIA Euro Overnight Index Average  
E&S equipment and software 
EU European Union EUC emergency unemployment compensation  
FHFA Federal Housing Finance Agency 
FI fiscal impetus 
FOMC Federal Open Market Committee; also, the Committee 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Page 46 of 46   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
August 5, 2010FRB Federal Reserve Board 
GDP gross domestic product 
GSE 
government-sponsored enterprise
HARP Home
 Affordable Refinance Plan  
HELOC home equity line of credit 
IMF International Monetary Fund 
IP industrial production  
Libor London interbank offered rate 
LTV loan to value 
MBS mortgage-backed securities
NAIRU non-accelerating inflatio n rate of unemployment 
NIPA national income and product accounts 
NRS nonresidential structures 
OECD Organisation for Economic  Co-operation and Development 
OIS overnight index swaps 
PCE personal consumption expenditures
SCAP Supervisory Capital Assessment Program 
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission 
SLOOS Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices 
SOMA System Open Market Account 
TALF Term  Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility  
TIPS Treasury inflation-protected securities 
VAR vector autoregression VAT value-added taxWTI West Texas Intermediate  