Prefatory Note 
The attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.  
Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
Content last modified 01/05 /2018. 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
    
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
   
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR)
 
Report to the FOMC
 
on Economic Conditions
 
and Monetary Policy
 
Book 
 B  
Monetary Policy:
  
Strategies  and Alternatives  
 
April 19 , 2012 
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
 
  
Monetary Policy Strategies 
The top panel of the exhibit, “Policy Rules and the Staff Projection,” provides 
near-term prescriptions for the federal funds rate from five selected policy rules: the 
Taylor (1993) rule, the Taylor (1999) rule , the outcome-based rule, the first-difference 
rule, and the nominal income targeting rule.1  These prescriptions take the staff’s baseline 
projections for real activity and inflation as  given; medium-term prescriptions derived 
from dynamic simulations of each rule are desc ribed further below.  As shown in the  
left-hand columns, the near-ter m prescriptions for the federal funds rate from most of the 
rules remain at the effective lower bound in both the second and third quarters of this 
year.  The exceptions are the prescriptions fr om the Taylor (1993) rule, which embeds a 
relatively low response to the output gap, and the first-difference rule, which responds to 
the change in the output gap ra ther than its level.  The Ta ylor (1993) rule prescribes 
policy rates around 165 basis points for the next two quarters, and the first-difference rule 
prescribes a rate just above the effectiv e lower bound by this summer.  The right-hand 
columns display the rule prescriptions that arise in the absence of the lower-bound 
constraint.  Of these, the lowest near-ter m value for the federal funds rate, at around  
90 basis points, comes from the nominal income  targeting rule, which is currently being 
pulled down by the recent history of negative output gaps.  The near-term prescriptions 
from all five rules have increased a bit in response to narrower staff estimates for the 
output gap as well as higher projected inflati on rates compared to the previous Tealbook.  
The Tealbook baseline projections for the output gap and inflation are shown in the 
bottom half of the exhibit, titled “Key Elements of th e Staff Projection” a fuller 
description is provided in  Book A of the Tealbook. 
The exhibit also reports the Tealboo k-consistent estimate of short-run r*, which is 
generated by the FRB/US model when c onditioned on the staff’s outlook for the 
economy.  Short-run r* measures the real federal funds rate that, if maintained, would 
return output to its potential in twelve quart ers.  Primarily reflecting the narrower staff 
projections for the output gap, the r* estimate is 40 basis point s higher than in the March 
Tealbook.  However, at 2.5 percent, it remains well below the estimated actual real 
federal funds rate of 1.8 percent. 
                                                 
1 Details for each rule appear  in Explanatory Note A. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 1 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
 
 Near-Term Prescriptions of Selected Policy Rules
 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy
  
2012Q2 2012Q3 2012Q2 2012Q3
      
Taylor (1993) rule 1.70 1.60  1.70 1.60
      
     Previous Tealbook 1.38 1.27  1.38 1.27
      
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13  -0.63 -0.67
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -1.10 -1.14
      
Outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13   0.04 -0.01
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.05 -0.20
      
First-difference rule 0.18 0.28  0.18 0.28
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.14 0.20  0.14 0.20
      
Nominal income targeting rule 0.13 0.13  -0.48 -0.91
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.55 -1.04
Current Previous
Tealbook Tealbook
    
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US r* estimate  -2.5 -2.9
    
Actual real federal funds rate  -1.8 -1.7
    
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-10123 
-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-10123 GDP Gap
Current Tealbook
Previous TealbookPolicy Rules and the Staff Projection
Memo: Equilibrium and Actual Real Federal Funds Rate
Key Elements of the Staff Projection
Percent Four-quarter percent change
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 PCE Prices ex. Food and Energy
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 2 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
The next exhibit, “Policy Rule Simulations,” reports dynamic simulations that 
incorporate the endogenous responses of infl ation and the output gap to the different 
paths of the federal funds rate prescribed by the constrained versions of the five policy 
rules described above.  These simulations are generated using the FRB/US model; the 
model is first adjusted to match the staff’ s outlook for the economy, and then simulated 
assuming that each policy rule is implemente d from now onward and that private agents 
fully understand and anticipate the implications of  each rule for real activity and inflation 
in the future.2  For comparison, the exhibit also displays the Tealbook baseline paths, 
which are conditioned on the prescriptions of the outcome-based rule. 
The Tealbook baseline (the outcome-based  rule) and two of the other rules—the 
Taylor (1999) rule and the nominal income targeting rule—keep the policy rate near the 
lower bound at least until th e beginning of 2014.  The Taylor (1999) rule currently 
produces conditions that are ve ry similar to those of the Tealbook baseline, including a 
convergence of inflation to the 2 percent goal late  in the decade.3  In contrast, under the 
nominal income targeting rule, the initial tight ening of the funds rate occurs only in the 
second half of 2014, and policy subsequently  remains more accommodative than under 
the other rules for several years.  This mo re accommodative policy is reflected in a more 
rapid decline in unemploymen t than that experienced unde r the other rules and in 
inflation hovering near 2 percent for much of the decade. 
Both the Taylor (1993) and the first-difference rules imply an earlier increase in 
the federal funds rate than the other rules, resulting in a higher path for the 
unemployment rate and, thus, inflation running below 2 percent until late in the decade.  
Because the Taylor (1993) rule does not re spond strongly to the level of the output gap, 
                                                 
2 The staff’s baseline forecast inco rporates the effects of the Fede ral Reserve’s large-scale asset 
purchase programs, as well as the effects of the maturity extension program and the modifications 
announced in September to the Federal Reserve’s reinvestment policies.  Through this channel, the policy 
rule simulations also incorporate th e effects of these balance sheet policies; the rules themselves are not 
directly adjusted for the effects of balance sheet policies.  In addition, the simulations also assume that no 
further balance sheet policies are undertaken.   
3 As in the previous Tealbook, the outcome-based an d Taylor (1999) rules lead to similar paths for 
the federal funds rate.  These two rules have similar longer-run properties, especially with respect to the response to the level of the output gap; however, their short-run responses are usually more distinct.  Currently, two offsetting forces lead to the similar funds rate prescriptions:  On the one hand, the outcome-based rule includes a term for the change in the output  gap change, which, because of rapid output gains in 
2014 and 2015, tends to prescribe increases in the funds rate relative to the Taylor (1999) rule.  On the other hand, the outcome-based rule includes lags of the federal funds rate whose presence tends to slow the 
pace of increase of the fund s rate.  These two forces are currently almost exactly offsetting each other, 
leading, on net, to simila r funds rate prescriptions. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 3 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Policy Rule Simulations
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-101234567 
-101234567Percent
 Nominal Federal Funds Rate
Taylor (1993) rule
Taylor (1999) rule
Nominal income targeting rule
First-difference rule
Tealbook baseline
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-3-2-101234 
-3-2-101234Percent
 Real Federal Funds Rate
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 202045678910 
45678910Percent
 Unemployment Rate
Note: The policy rule simulations in this exhibit are based on rules that respond to core inflation. This choice
of rule specification was made in light of the tendency for current and near-term core inflation rates to outperform
headline inflation rates as predictors of the medium-term behavior of headline inflation.2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Percent
 PCE Inflation
Four-quarter average
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 4 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
this rule implies an immediat e departure of the funds rate from its effective lower bound.  
While the first-difference rule does not prescrib e an increase in the f unds rate before the 
second half of next year in this set of si mulations, it implies policy rates for the following 
years that run a bit higher than under the other rules.4  Reflecting the forward-looking 
price and wage-setting behavior embedded in FRB/US, both the Taylor (1993) and the 
first-difference rule thus generate fairly similar average outcomes for unemployment and 
inflation, despite the differences in their funds  rate prescriptions over the next two years. 
As shown in the third exhibit, “Constrai ned vs. Unconstrained Optimal Monetary 
Policy,” the staff’s slight upward revisions to the paths of re al activity and inflation over 
the projection period imply that funds rate pr escriptions from optimal control simulations 
of the FRB/US model have edged up margin ally compared with those reported in the 
previous Tealbook.5  In these simulations, policymakers are assumed to place equal 
weights on keeping headline PCE inflation close to the Committee’s 2 percent inflation 
goal, on keeping the unemployment rate close to the staff’s estimate of the effective 
natural rate of unemployment, and on minimizing changes in the federal funds rate. 6  The 
simulations indicate that the optimal path for the federal funds rate does not rise 
appreciably above zero until the second half of 2015, about one quarter earlier than in the 
March Tealbook.7 
                                                 
4 Note that the first-difference rule in this set of simulations does not prescribe tightening until late 
2013, while in the “Near-Term Prescriptions” table this rule prescribes an increase in the funds rate in the 
fourth quarter of this year.  The distinction arises  because of the endogenous feedback embedded in the 
dynamic simulations and the forward-looking nature of the rule.  In contrast to the near-term prescriptions, 
which are essentially driven by the staff’s baseline pr ojections for the economy, this set of simulations 
allows the economy to respond endogenously to the policy settings under the rule.  The tighter policy under the first-difference rule leads to a weaker economy and lower inflation rates, which feed back into a later 
increase in the simulated funds rate prescription than  does an application of the rule to the baseline 
projection. 
5 The optimal policy simulations take into account the staff’s baseline forecast, which incorporates 
the effects of the Federal Reserve’s large-scale asse t purchase programs, as well as the effects of the 
maturity extension program and the modifications announced in September to the Federal Reserve’s 
reinvestment policies. 
6 Reflecting the transitory effects of extended une mployment benefits, the staff’s estimate of the 
effective natural rate of unemployment falls from 6¼ pe rcent in the first quarter of 2012 to 5¾ percent by 
the end of 2015, and then declines further un til it reaches 5¼ percent by the end of 2017. 
7 Although the loss function uses headline inflation in stead of core inflation,  the real federal funds 
rate shown in the upper right panel of the exhibit is  calculated as the differen ce between the nominal funds 
rate and a four-quarter moving average of core PCE inflation.  Core PCE inflation is used to compute the 
real rate because it provides a less volatile measure of inflation expectations than does a four-quarter 
moving average of headline inflation. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 5 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Constrained vs. Unconstrained Optimal Monetary Policy
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-3-2-1012345678 
-3-2-1012345678Percent
 Nominal Federal Funds Rate
Current Tealbook: Constrained
Previous Tealbook: Constrained
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained
Tealbook baseline
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-5-4-3-2-101234 
-5-4-3-2-101234Percent
 Real Federal Funds Rate
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 202045678910 
45678910Percent
 Unemployment Rate
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Percent
 PCE Inflation
Four-quarter average
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 6 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
The optimal control policy keeps the funds rate lower for longer than any of the 
other policy approaches discu ssed above.  As a consequence, this policy would promote a 
faster pace of economic recovery than in  the staff’s baseline outlook, as well as an 
inflation rate in the medium run that is closer to the FOMC’s goal of 2 percent.  In the 
optimal control simulation, the gap between the unemployment rate and the staff’s 
estimate of the effective natu ral rate of unemployment is first closed by the end of 2015, 
and the unemployment rate runs slightly be low target over the following few years.  
Similarly, inflation slightly overshoots its target after 2015 and rises to about 2¼ percent 
in 2018, before returning to 2 percent in 2020.  The faster convergence to the 
Committee’s assumed objectives obtains be cause policymakers respond to the lower 
bound constraint by promising to keep interest  rates low for an extended period of time; 
because this policy is assumed to be completely  credible, it boosts inflation expectations 
and reduces real rates during the first years of the simulation. 
If the nominal federal funds rate could fall below zero, the funds rate, under the 
optimal unconstrained policy, would decrease to 2 percent by mid-2013 and not return 
to positive territory until early 2015.8  Under these hypothetical conditions, the 
unemployment rate would decline more rapidl y than under the optimal constrained policy 
and would then remain roughly stable at 5¼ percent after 2016.  With the unemployment 
rate stabilized, inflation would settle in at around 2 percent in 2018. 
The final exhibit, “Outcomes under Altern ative Policies,” tabulates the simulation 
results under the selected policy rules described above for key variables. 
                                                 
8 The hypothetical stimulus provided by negative funds rates in these optimal control simulations 
indicates the extent to which optimal policy remains constrained by the lower bound on the federal funds 
rate.  As noted above, these exercises hold balance sheet  policy at an assumed baseline.  In the presence of 
the lower bound, the stimulus called for by the optimal unconstrained policy simulation could be provided by taking actions, such as additional large-scale asset purchases, that make balance sheet policy more accommodative than under the baseline assumption.  Of course, the benefits in terms of better economic 
outcomes resulting from such an action would have to be balanced against the costs.  These considerations 
are discussed further in two memos sent to the Commi ttee on April 17, 2012, “A Summary of the Costs and 
Benefits of Large-Scale Asset Purchases” and “Extending the Maturity Extension Program.” 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 7 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Outcomes under Alternative Policies
(Percent change, annual rate, from end of preceding period except as noted)
 H2Measure and scenario 2011
  2012
  2013
  2014
  2015
  2016
Real GDP
Extended Tealbook baseline 2.4 2.5 2.8 3.3 3.6 3.5
Taylor (1993) 2.4 2.1 2.2 3.2 3.8 3.9
Taylor (1999) 2.4 2.5 2.8 3.3 3.6 3.5
First-difference 2.4 2.4 2.6 3.1 3.5 3.5
Nominal income targeting 2.4 2.8 3.4 3.8 3.8 3.4
Constrained optimal control 2.4 2.8 3.6 4.0 4.0 3.2
Unemployment rate1
Extended Tealbook baseline 8.7 8.0 7.7 7.4 6.8 6.2
Taylor (1993) 8.7 8.1 8.1 7.9 7.2 6.4
Taylor (1999) 8.7 8.0 7.7 7.4 6.8 6.2
First-difference 8.7 8.0 7.8 7.6 7.1 6.5
Nominal income targeting 8.7 7.9 7.4 6.8 6.0 5.5
Constrained optimal control 8.7 7.9 7.2 6.6 5.8 5.2
Total PCE prices
Extended Tealbook baseline 1.7 1.9 1.5 1.5 1.7 1.7
Taylor (1993) 1.7 1.8 1.4 1.3 1.5 1.5
Taylor (1999) 1.7 1.9 1.5 1.5 1.7 1.7
First-difference 1.7 1.8 1.3 1.3 1.5 1.5
Nominal income targeting 1.7 2.1 1.9 1.9 2.1 2.0
Constrained optimal control 1.7 2.2 1.9 1.9 2.1 2.1
Core PCE prices
Extended Tealbook baseline 1.7 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.8 1.8
Taylor (1993) 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.5 1.6 1.6
Taylor (1999) 1.7 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.8 1.8
First-difference 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.6
Nominal income targeting 1.7 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.2 2.1
Constrained optimal control 1.7 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.2 2.2
Federal funds rate1
Extended Tealbook baseline 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.2 2.3 3.1
Taylor (1993) 0.1 1.6 1.4 1.8 2.5 3.2
Taylor (1999) 0.1 0.1 0.2 1.2 2.3 3.2
First-difference 0.1 0.1 0.4 1.4 2.4 3.4
Nominal income targeting 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.5 1.6 2.6
Constrained optimal control 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.6 2.4
   1. Percent, average for the final quarter of the period.
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 8 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  In an effort to in crease clarity about the linkages between the 
FOMC’s assessment of the economic outlook and its monetary policy decisions, each 
draft statement includes information about the medium-run outlook and the policy path 
on which that outlook is conditioned.  With the same aim in mind, Alternatives A and C 
offer ways to modify the forward guidance.   Under Alternative A, the Committee would 
provide more policy stimulus either by expa nding the maturity extension program (MEP) 
or by undertaking new purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS).  As 
always, the Committee could blend elements of  the draft statements to construct its 
desired statement.   
The draft statements for Alternatives A and B begin with the same words as the 
March statement:  “Information received … suggests that the economy has been expanding moderately.”  Alternative C offers the more upbeat depiction that “the economic recovery has continued to strengthen.”   Alternatives A and B observe that labor 
market conditions have improved in recent m onths, but also note that the unemployment 
rate remains elevated.  Alternative C doe s not describe unemployment as elevated; 
instead, after citing the improvement in labor markets, it points to the expansion in private payrolls in recent months.  Altern ative A characterizes the housing sector as 
depressed; Alternatives B and C offer two wa ys to indicate that the sector has shown 
some improvement but is still depressed.  W ith respect to prices, Alternatives A and B 
observe that inflation “has pi cked up somewhat, mainly refl ecting higher prices of crude 
oil and gasoline.”  Alternative C puts more emphasis on the effects of the run-up in oil 
and gas prices by saying that “sizable increas es in the prices of crude oil and gasoline 
have pushed up inflation somewhat.”  Each statement notes that longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable. 
The alternatives differ substantially in their characterization of the medium-term 
outlook for real activity.  A lternative B states that th e Committee expects economic 
growth “to remain moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up gradually, 
supported by highly accommodative monetary polic y.” As before, Alternative B says that 
the Committee anticipates that the unemploy ment rate “will decline gradually” toward 
levels it considers consistent with the dua l mandate.  Alternative C embodies a stronger 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 9 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 forecast; it states that the Committee exp ects that economic growth will pick up over 
time, and that the unemployment rate “will move appreciably closer, over the next few 
years,” to levels judged consistent with the dual mandate.  Altern ative A envisions less 
strength; it says that “absent further po licy stimulus, economic growth would be 
unacceptably slow” and unemployment would d ecline “only very gradually.”     
With respect to the outlook for inflation, Alternative B observes that the increase 
in prices of crude oil and gaso line earlier this year “is expected to affect inflation only 
temporarily,” and that “the Committee anticipa tes that subsequently inflation will run at 
or below the rate that it judge s most consistent with its dual mandate.”  Alternative A 
offers the same forecast, but expresses concer n about the effects of higher prices of oil 
and gasoline on consumers’ purchasing power.  While Alternative C also says that the 
increase in oil and gasoline prices is expected to affect in flation only temporarily, it sends 
a different message about the medium-r un outlook for inflation by stating “the 
Committee anticipates that, with appropriate monetary policy, inflation over the medium 
term will run close to the rate that it j udges most consistent with its mandate.”   
In light of the economic outlook summarized in the draft statement for Alternative 
B, the Committee would, under that alternative, maintain the 0 to ¼ percent target for the 
funds rate and make no change to its balan ce sheet policies or to its guidance regarding 
the anticipated period of excep tionally low federal funds rates.  Under Alternative A, 
with its downbeat view of the medium-t erm outlook, the Committee would provide more 
stimulus either by expanding the maturity extension program (MEP) to $800 billion and 
continuing it through March 2013, or by la unching a new program to purchase $500 
billion of agency MBS.1  While the draft statement for Alternative A maintains the 
current target range for the federal funds rate and reiterates that the anticipated period of 
exceptionally low federal funds rates extends at least through late 2014, it offers the 
public more information than Alternative B a bout the types of economic information that 
will inform the Committee’s future policy decisi ons.  Alternative C maintains the current 
target range and completes the existing $400 billion MEP, but it alters the forward 
guidance either by pulling forward the anticipate d date of the first increase in the federal 
funds rate or by replacing the current fo rward guidance—including the date—with new, 
exit-oriented, language.  
                                                 
1 Staff memos analyzing each of these programs we re sent to Committee participants on April 17.  
See “Extending the Maturity Exte nsion Program” and “A Summary of the Costs and Benefits of Large-
Scale Asset Purchases.”  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 10 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 The following table highlights key elemen ts of the differences in the policy 
actions associated with the alternative statements.  The table is followed by complete 
draft statements and then by a summary of the arguments for each alternative.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 11 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 Table 1:  Overview of Policy Alternatives for the April 25 FOMC Statement 
 
Selected 
Elements March 
Statement April Alternatives 
A B C 
Forward Rate Guidance 
Guidance  at least through  
late 2014 unchanged unchangedIn judging when to first increase 
its target for the federal funds 
rate, the Committee will consider 
a range of factors, including rates 
of resource utilization, the 
projected pace of improvement in 
labor market conditions, the 
contours of the medium-term 
inflation outlook, the stability of 
longer-run inflation expectations, 
and the balance of risks that could 
impede the attainment of … goals
OR 
until mid-2013 
Balance Sheet 
MEP continue its 
program as 
announced in 
September  
 
($400 billion; 
complete by 
end of June 2012) complete the MEP announced in 
September; then purchase, 
between July 2012 and March 
2013, an additional $400 billion of 
Treasury securities with remaining 
maturities of 6 to 30 years and sell 
an equal amount with remaining 
maturities of 4 years or less unchanged
 complete in June the program that 
it announced in September  
 
Additional 
Purchases none OR (instead of expanding the 
MEP) 
 
purchase an additional $500 billion 
of agency MBS by the end of 
April 2013 none none 
Reinvestment Policies principal 
payments of 
agency debt and 
MBS into agency 
MBS; 
Treasuries into 
Treasuries unchanged unchanged unchanged 
Future Policy Action  
Future Actions regularly review 
the size and 
composition of 
securities 
holdings; 
prepared to adjust 
holdings as 
appropriate to 
promote stronger 
recovery in 
context of price 
stability As in March plus:  In judging the 
appropriate stance of monetary 
policy, the Committee will 
consider a range of factors, 
including rates of resource 
utilization, the projected pace of 
improvement in labor market 
conditions, the contours of the 
medium-run inflation outlook, the 
stability of longer-run inflation 
expectations, and the balance of 
risks that could impede the 
attainment of … goals. unchangedregularly review the size and 
composition of securities 
holdings; prepared to adjust 
holdings as appropriate to 
promote maximum employment 
and price stability 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 12 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 MARCH FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January 
suggests that the economy has been expanding moderately.  Labor market 
conditions have improved further; the unemp loyment rate has declined notably in 
recent months but remains elevated.  Household spending and business fixed 
investment have continued to advance.  The housing sector remains depressed.  Inflation has been subdued in recent m onths, although prices of crude oil and 
gasoline have increased latel y.  Longer-term inflation e xpectations have remained 
stable. 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Th e Committee expects moderate economic 
growth over coming quarters and consequent ly anticipates that the unemployment 
rate will decline gradually toward le vels that the Committee judges to be 
consistent with its dual mandate.  Strains in global financial markets have eased, 
though they continue to pos e significant downside risk s to the economic outlook.  
The recent increase in oil and gasoline pr ices will push up inflation temporarily, 
but the Committee anticipates that subseque ntly inflation will run at or below the 
rate that it judges most consistent with its dual mandate. 
3. To support a stronger economic recovery a nd to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee expects 
to maintain a highly accommodative stance fo r monetary policy.  In particular, the 
Committee decided today to keep  the target range for the fe deral funds rate at 0 to 
¼ percent and currently an ticipates that economic conditions—including low rates 
of resource utilization a nd a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—
are likely to warrant excep tionally low levels for the fe deral funds rate at least 
through late 2014.  
4. The Committee also decided to continue its program to extend the average maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in September.  The Committee is maintaining its existing policies of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency 
mortgage-backed securities and of rolli ng over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate to 
promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability.  
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 13 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 APRIL FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A   
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January  
March  suggests that the economy has been expanding moderately.  Labor market 
conditions have improved further  in recent months ; the unemployment rate has 
declined notably in recent months  but remains elevated.  Household spending and 
business fixed investment have continued to  advance.  The housing sector remains 
depressed.  Inflation has been subdued  picked up somewhat  in recent months , 
although  mainly reflecting higher  prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased 
lately .  However,  longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stabil ity.  The Committee expects moderate  anticipates 
that, absent further policy stimulus,  economic growth over coming quarters  
would be unacceptably slow  and consequently anticipates  that the 
unemployment rate will  would  decline only very  gradually toward levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Strains in global 
financial markets have eased, though they  continue to pose significant downside 
risks to the economic outlook.  The recent  increase in oil and gasoline prices 
earlier this year  will push up  is reducing consumers’ purchasing power while 
boosting  inflation temporarily, but the Committee anticipates that subsequently 
inflation will run at or below the rate that it judges most consistent with its dual 
mandate. 
3.1 To support a stronger economic recovery a nd to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee expects 
to maintain a highly accommodative stance for mone tary policy .  In particular, the 
Committee  decided today to continue  expand  its program to extend the average 
maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in September .  After 
completing the transactions that it announced last Sept ember, the Committee 
intends to purchase, between July 2012 and the end of March 2013, an 
additional $400 billion of Treasury secu rities with remaining maturities of 6 
years to 30 years, and to sell an equal amount of Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 4 years or le ss.  These transactions should put 
downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and help to make broader 
financial conditions more accommodative.   The Committee is maintaining its 
existing policies of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securi ties at auction.  The 
Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust thos e holdings as appropriate to promote a 
stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability.  
      OR  
3.2 To support a stronger economic recovery a nd to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee expects 
to maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy .  In particular, the 
Committee  decided today to continue its  purchase an additional $500 billion of 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 14 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 agency mortgage-backed securities  by the end of April 2013 .  The Committee 
also will complete the  program to extend the average maturity of its holdings of 
securities as  that it  announced in September.  These transactions should put 
downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage 
markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more 
accommodative.   The Committee is maintaining its existing policies of 
reinvesting principal payments from its  holdings of agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securities in agency mo rtgage-backed securi ties and of rolling 
over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee will regularly 
review the size and composition of its securiti es holdings and is prepared to adjust 
those holdings as appropriate to promot e a stronger economic recovery in a 
context of price stability. 
4. The Committee also decided to keep the ta rget range for the federal funds rate at 0 
to ¼ percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions — including low 
rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over  the medium 
run— are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at 
least through late 2014.  
5. In judging the appropriate stance of  monetary policy, the Committee will 
consider a range of factors, including  rates of resource utilization, the 
projected pace of improvement in labor market conditions, the contours of 
the medium-run inflation outlook, the stability of longer-run inflation 
expectations, and the balance of risks th at could impede the attainment of the 
Committee’s goals.  
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 15 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 APRIL FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B    
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January  
March  suggests that the economy has been expanding moderately.  Labor market 
conditions have improved further  in recent months ; the unemployment rate has 
declined notably in recent months  but remains elevated.  Household spending and 
business fixed investment have continued to advance.  Despite some tentative 
signs of improvement,  the housing sector remains de pressed.  Inflation has been  
subdued  picked up somewhat  in recent months , although  mainly reflecting 
higher  prices of crude oil and ga soline have increased lately .  However,  longer-
term inflation expectations have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects moderate  economic 
growth to remain moderate  over coming quarters and then to pick up  
gradually, supported by highly accommodative monetary policy.   
Consequently , the Committee  anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline 
gradually toward levels that the Committee  it judges to be consistent with its dual 
mandate.  Strains in global financial markets have eased, though they  continue to 
pose significant downside risks to  the economic outlook.  The recent  increase in 
oil and gasoline prices earlier this year  will push up  is expected to affect  
inflation only temporarily, but  and the Committee anticipates that subsequently 
inflation will run at or below the rate th at it judges most consistent with its dual 
mandate. 
3. To support a stronger economic recovery a nd to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee expects 
to maintain a highly accommodative stance fo r monetary policy.  In particular, the 
Committee decided today to keep  the target range for the fe deral funds rate at 0 to 
¼ percent and currently anticipates  that economic conditions—including low rates 
of resource utilization a nd a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—
are likely to warrant excep tionally low levels for the fe deral funds rate at least 
through late 2014.   
4. The Committee also decided to continue its program to extend the average 
maturity of its holdings of securities as announced in September.  The Committee 
is maintaining its existing policies of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency 
mortgage-backed securities and of rolli ng over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate to 
promote a stronger economic recovery  in a context of price stability. 
  
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 16 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 APRIL FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C    
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January  
March  suggests that the economy  has been expanding moderately  economic 
recovery has continued to strengthen .  Labor market conditions have improved 
further; the unemployment rate has declined notably  in recent months but remains 
elevated  somewhat more, and private payrolls have expanded moderately on 
average in recent months .  Household spending and business fixed investment 
have continued to advance.  The housing sector remains depressed but has shown 
some signs of improvement .  Sizable increases in the prices of crude oil and 
gasoline have pushed up  inflation somewhat  has been subdued in recent months , 
although prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately .  Longer-term 
inflation expectations have remained stable. 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects moderate  economic 
growth over coming quarters  to pick up over time  and consequently anticipates 
that the unemployment rate will decline gradually  move appreciably closer, over 
the next few years, to  toward  levels that the Committee judges to be consistent 
with its dual mandate.  Strains in global financial markets h ave eased, though they  
continue to pose significant downside ri sks to the economic outlook.  The recent  
increase in oil and gasoline prices earlier this year  will push up  is expected to  
affect  inflation only temporarily, but ; the Committee anticipates that 
subsequently , with appropriate monetary policy,  inflation over the medium 
term  will run at or below  close to  the rate that it judges most consistent with its 
dual mandate.   
3.1 To support a stronger  sustainable  economic recovery and to help ensure that 
inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the 
Committee expects to maintain  a highly accommodative stance for monetary 
policy .  In particular, the Committee  decided today to keep the target range for the 
federal funds rate at 0 to  ¼ percent and currently anticipates that economic 
conditions —including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for 
inflation over the medium run —are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for 
the federal funds rate at least thro ugh late 2014 .  In judging when to first 
increase its target for the federal f unds rate, the Committee will consider a 
range of factors, including rates of res ource utilization, the projected pace of 
improvement in labor market conditio ns, the contours of the medium-run 
inflation outlook, the stability of longer-run inflation expectations, and the 
balance of risks that could impede the attainment of the Committee’s goals.   
      OR  
3.2 To support a stronger  sustainable  economic recovery and to help ensure that 
inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the 
Committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy.  In particular, the Co mmittee decided today to keep  the target range for the 
federal funds rate at  0 to ¼ percent and
.  In light of the improvement in the 
economic outlook, the Committee  currently  now  anticipates that economic 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 17 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 conditions—including low rates of resour ce utilization and a subdued outlook for 
inflation over the medium run—are likely  to warrant exceptiona lly low levels for 
the federal funds rate at  least through late 2014  until mid-2013 .  
4. The Committee also decided to continue its complete in June the  program to 
extend the average maturity of its holdings of securities as  that it  announced in 
September.  The Committee is maintain ing its existing policies of reinvesting 
principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities at auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size and 
composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as 
appropriate  necessary  to promote a stronger economi c recovery in a context of  
maximum employment and  price stability.  
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 18 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
Policymakers might interpret the available information as indicating that neither 
the modal economic outlook nor the risks to the outlook have changed appreciably since 
they last met, and conclude that it is appropriate to make  no change in the stance of 
monetary policy.  Or policy makers might judge that the modal outlook for output and 
employment has improved to some extent, but that the downside risks have increased in 
recent weeks, suggesting that a change in the stance of policy would be premature.  More 
specifically, FOMC participants may see the da ta and anecdotal evidence as supporting a 
modal forecast—conditioned on maintaining the current settings of the Committee’s 
monetary policy tools through late 2014—in which economic growth is likely to be 
moderate in coming quarters and then to pick up over time, and in which the 
unemployment rate is likely to decline gradually but remain well above mandate-
consistent levels over the next  few years.  In addition, participants might see spot and 
futures prices for crude oil and gasoline as consistent with the expectation, expressed in 
the Committee’s March statement, that the boost to inflation resulting from the increase in prices of crude oil and gasoline earlier this year w ould be temporary, and that 
subsequently inflation would run at rate s no higher than the Committee’s 2 percent 
longer-run goal.  While policymakers might be encouraged by recent data on economic activity and inflation, they may see financia l strains—including t hose associated with 
Europe’s fiscal and banking problems—as st ill posing significant downside risks to the 
economic outlook; indeed, they may see such strains as having intensified somewhat in 
recent weeks.  Accordingly, participants might  judge it appropriate to issue a statement 
along the lines of Alternative B, which updates the Committee’s characterization of 
recent economic activity and adds informati on about its view of the medium-run outlook 
but does not alter the Committee’ s target for the federal f unds rate, its balance sheet 
policies, or its forward rate guidance.   
Alternatively, some participants might th ink, in light of the ongoing improvement 
in labor market conditions, that the economic  outlook has improved significantly and that 
the recovery may have transitioned to a su stainable expansion.  Nonetheless, with 
financial strains having reemerged and with uncertainty about the economic outlook still 
quite high, these participants may prefer, befo re making a change in the forward guidance 
that might have to be reversed later, to wait for additional information to confirm that the expansion will be sufficiently strong and durable to generate continuing reductions in the 
unemployment rate.  Some other participants might think that the outlook for growth has 
improved significantly, but judge  that, with unemployment s till quite elevated and the 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 19 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 recent pickup in inflation apparently begi nning to ebb, the improvement does not warrant 
revising the forward guidance.  They might, for example, now anticipate that it will 
become appropriate to increase the target fede ral funds rate early in  2015 rather than at a 
later date.  Moreover, although the estimated outcomes-based rule (which reflects the 
Committee’s average behavior from 1988 thr ough 2006) suggests th at the FOMC would 
be likely to raise the target range for the federal funds ra te early in 2014 if the economy 
were to evolve as envisioned in the staff fo recast, policymakers may conclude that it is 
appropriate to maintain the current target  range at least until late 2014 because the 
Committee’s ability to provide stimulus by re ducing the funds rate has been constrained 
by the zero lower bound for an extended period, or because the macroeconomic impact of 
very low interest rates may be somewhat at tenuated in the aftermath of the financial 
crisis.  
Even after the nearly one percentage point decline in the unemployment rate 
during the past seven months, policymakers may see substantial slack in resource 
utilization.  In addition, they may anticipate that growth will not be sufficiently rapid to 
bring the economy close to full employment over the medium term.  Participants who 
anticipate only a slow reduction in resource sl ack may also see inflat ion as likely to run 
well below 2 percent once the temporary effects of this year’s jump in oil and gasoline 
prices fade away.  If so, they might conc lude that further policy stimulus would be 
helpful in speeding progress toward the Comm ittee’s objectives.  Nonetheless, with the 
recovery showing some signs of strengthening and with in flation not yet back under 2 
percent, they may judge that it is appropriate to wait for a dditional information regarding 
the economic outlook before deciding whether to provide additional policy 
accommodation.  Some other participants ma y judge that the Committee has only limited 
scope to provide further monetary stimulu s and so might choose to forgo providing 
additional stimulus for the time being in orde r to preserve sufficient scope for possible 
future action if the economy were to be hit by an adverse shock or if the risk of deflation 
were to rise.  Such an approach might seem  appropriate if partic ipants thought that a 
change in policy would have a particularly large positive effect on business and consumer confidence in such circumstances.  Altern atively, some policymakers, though seeing the 
current economic outlook as disappointing, mi ght conclude that the costs that would 
accompany additional asset purchases are like ly to outweigh the benefits unless the 
economy suffers another adverse shock or faces a greater risk of deflation.  For example, 
these policymakers may be concerned that additional asset purchases could complicate 
the Federal Reserve’s ability to exit from its extraordinarily accommodative policy stance 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 20 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 at the appropriate time and pace, or could distort the functioning of  markets for Treasury 
securities or agency MBS.  
A statement like Alternative B would be la rgely in line with the expectations of 
financial market participants.  Many respondent s to the Desk’s latest survey of primary 
dealers expect the Committee to update its characterization of ec onomic conditions to 
recognize the disappointing Ma rch employment report and increased tensions in 
European financial markets, but do not e xpect the Committee to change its forward 
guidance at this meeting.  As in March, the deal ers anticipate that th e first increase in the 
target federal funds rate will most likely occu r in the third quarter of 2014, and they see a 
slightly higher probability that lift-off will co me later than earlier.  Moreover, while the 
dealers place some odds on the Committee alteri ng its forward rate guidance at some time 
within the next year (the median dealer s ees a 15 percent probability that the Committee 
will move to an earlier date within the next year, and a 30 percent probability of a move 
to a later date), they see essentially no chan ce of either change at this meeting.  Neither 
do they see any likelihood of a change in th e Committee’s balance sheet policies at this 
meeting; moreover, most dealers anticipate no guidance about the end of the MEP until 
the June meeting.  Thus, if the Committee were to issue a statemen t like Alternative B, 
interest rates across the maturity spectrum likely would not change appreciably.  Equity 
prices and the foreign exchange value of the dollar probably would also show little response.  Nonetheless, the new language about the medium-run outlook in paragraph 2 
could focus more attention on the SEP as i nvestors seek insight into the Committee’s 
views about the projected pace of improveme nt in labor market conditions and the 
medium-run outlook for inflation; if the SEP reveals a stronger or weaker outlook than 
investors anticipate, the comb ination of new language in the statement and the new SEP 
might produce a more noticeable adjust ment in asset prices and yields. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
Some participants may see the deviation of employment from their assessments of 
its maximum level as large and as likely to  diminish only very slowly absent further 
policy stimulus.  These participants may be  concerned that consumer spending, while 
growing, is still rising less ra pidly than during 2010, that household income gains have 
been modest, and that the recent increase in energy prices has reduced households’ 
purchasing power.  They may also be con cerned that activity in  the housing sector 
remains depressed even if it has turned up a bit, and that  the continuing overhang of 
foreclosed and vacant properties will restrain recovery in this sector for some time to 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 21 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 come.  Some participants may also expect that inflation will run persistently below the 
Committee’s longer-run target on ce the temporary effects of ear lier increases in gasoline 
prices ebb.  Accordingly, they may judge that further policy action is warranted, as in Alternative A.  These policymakers might not e that the unconstrained optimal control 
simulations and three of five of the uncons trained near-term policy rule prescriptions 
presented in the “Monetary Policy Strategies” section of the Tealbook continue to call for 
a greater degree of policy accommodation, even  under the staff’s baseline scenario.   
Moreover, FOMC participants might view the risks to the medium-run outlook as 
skewed to the downside.  Stra ins in global financial markets appear to have intensified 
somewhat of late, and the Committee may rema in concerned that po licymakers in Europe 
will face further difficulties in resolving the situation and that the potential for adverse spillovers to U.S. financial markets and the U.S. economy is still significant.  Accordingly, participants may place sizable odds on an adverse outcome in Europe 
driving the U.S. economy into a new downtur n, along the lines of the “European Crisis 
with Severe Spillovers” simula tion.  Some policymakers may also see a high probability 
that the Congress will be unable to resolve contentious fiscal i ssues before the turn of the 
year, with adverse consequences for growth next  year, as in the “Fiscal Cliff” alternative 
simulation.  They may also think it likely that  uncertainty about fis cal policy will restrain 
household spending and business investment la ter this year.  Furthermore, with a 
substantial fraction of unemployed workers ha ving been jobless for long periods, some 
FOMC participants may be concerned that these workers’ attachment to the labor force 
could erode, as in the “Co rrosion” scenario in the Teal book.  These participants might 
want to guard against the risk that a high level of long-term unemplo yment, if it were to 
persist long enough, will depress labor supply an d potential output.  With the effects of 
this year’s run-up in oil a nd gasoline prices on U.S. inflation seemingly already 
beginning to ebb, and with inflation expecta tions well anchored, participants may judge 
that the upside risks to inflation are fairly  small.  Accordingly, policymakers may see 
both the likelihood and the costs of weaker-t han-expected economic outcomes as larger 
than those of stronger-than-expected outcomes, and thus be inclined to provide additional monetary policy stimulus.  Finally, the Comm ittee has at its disposal multiple tools to 
remove policy accommodation when it becomes appropriate to do so, so members may be confident that undertaking additional asset purchases at this time would not undermine the Federal Reserve’s ability to im plement an effective exit strategy. 
Should the Committee decide to provide further monetary stimulus, it might 
prefer to announce that it will expand the size of the MEP from $400 billion to $800 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 22 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 billion and continue it for another nine months , as in paragraph 3.1 of Alternative A.  The 
Committee might take that action to put a dditional downward pressure on longer-term 
Treasury yields, pressure that would be transmitted to yi elds on longer-term corporate 
debt and on MBS.  Alternatively, the Comm ittee might choose to increase the SOMA’s 
holdings of agency MBS by an additional $500 billion, as in paragra ph 3.2 of Alternative 
A, with the aim of supporting mortgage markets while putting downward pressure on 
longer-term interest rates.2  While paragraph 3.2 of Alternat ive A incorporates a discrete 
$500 billion agency MBS purchase program spread over 12 months, the Committee could 
instead choose to implement an incrementa l, open-ended purchase program by specifying 
an initial monthly rate of purchases—perh aps $40 to $45 billion per month—and stating 
that it would adjust the pace of purchases a nd determine the ultimate size of the program 
as needed to foster its objectives.  The Committee might prefer to implement a large, discrete purchase program if it believes that investor uncerta inty about the ultimate size 
of an open-ended program would make it less effective than a discrete program.  But 
members might opt for an open-ended purchas e program if they believe that more 
flexibility is needed to tailor the tota l amount of purchases to evolving economic 
conditions.  
A statement along the lines of Alternative A would surprise financial market 
participants.  Although the median respondent to the Desk’s survey of primary dealers puts the probability of additional large-scale asset purchases being initiated within the 
next year at 45 percent and the probability of another MEP or  similar program to increase 
the average duration of the SOMA portfolio at 20 percent, they see essentially no chance 
that such steps will be announced at this meeting.  Longer-term interest rates and the 
foreign exchange value of the dollar likely w ould decline after the re lease of a statement 
like Alternative A.  Equity prices probab ly would increase; however, the downbeat 
characterization of the economic outlook contai ned in paragraph 2 of Alternative A could 
damp that rise or even result in a drop in equity prices. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Policymakers may judge that recent information indicates that the economic 
recovery is now on a firmer footing and that, abstracting from temporary fluctuations, the 
                                                 
2 The staff estimates that increas ing the SOMA’s holdings of agency MBS by an additional $500 
billion would reduce the unemployment rate by about ¼ percentage point after two years and raise inflation 
by about the same amount.  The estimated macroeconomic effects of expanding the MEP are essentially the 
same.  For details, see the memos cited in footnote 1.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 23 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 inflation rate is trending highe r.  In that case, they might conclude that moving toward a 
somewhat less accommodative stance of policy appreciably earlier th an indicated by the 
Committee’s March statement would be appropria te to limit the risks of an undesirable 
increase in inflation over the medium run.  If  so, the Committee might prefer a statement 
like Alternative C.   
Some participants may see the incoming da ta as pointing to a stronger expansion 
than had been anticipated earlier this y ear.  Labor market conditions have improved 
notably in recent months; the improvem ent includes an ongoing decline in the 
unemployment rate and an incr ease in average monthly job gains relative to the summer 
and fall of last year.  Household spending a nd business fixed investment have continued 
to advance, and some indicators of conditions  in the housing sector have turned up in 
recent months.  Conditions in debt and capital  markets improved substantially late last 
year and early this year; FOMC participants may judge that overall financial conditions 
remain supportive of growth ev en though some financial strain s have intensified in recent 
weeks.  Looking ahead, some participants ma y expect a sizable pickup in the pace of 
economic growth, with a correspondingly rapid decline in the unemplo yment rate.  They 
may also perceive a significant risk that the sh arp increase in the prices of crude oil and 
gasoline earlier this year a nd the resulting boost in headline inflation, coming in the 
context of the Federal Reserv e’s exceptionally large balance sheet, will raise inflation 
expectations—particularly if the economy strengthens noticeably—as in the “Virtuous 
Circle with Higher Inflation” alternative simulation.  Agains t this backdrop, policymakers 
may judge that a timely reduction in policy accommodation is necessary to prevent the 
increase in actual inflation in recent months from undermin ing the public’s confidence in 
the Committee’s commitment to its longer-run inflation goal.   
The Committee has emphasized that its forward guidance is conditional on the 
economic outlook and will be adjusted if the outlook changes significantly.  Participants 
whose evolving views on the economic outlook and the appropriate path for the federal 
funds rate have led them to anticipate a sign ificantly earlier lift-o ff than was indicated by 
the Committee’s January and March statements might see this meeting as the right time 
to adjust the forward guidance, given that the release of a new SEP and the Chairman’s 
press conference will provide an opportunity to  make clear that revi sions to the forward 
guidance reflect an improved economic outlook rather than a change in the Committee’s objectives.  The Committee could, as in para graph 3.1 of Alternative C, eliminate the 
calendar date from its forward guidance and replace it with new language that describes 
in somewhat greater detail the key economic factors that the Committee will consider in 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 24 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 deciding when to first in crease its target for the funds rate .  If the public understands this 
new language, investors would m odify their assessments of the likely timing of the first 
increase in the target funds ra te as the key factors change ove r time.  Alternatively, as in 
paragraph 3.2 of Alternative C, the Committee could state that, in light of the improved 
economic outlook, it now anticipates that economic conditions will warrant a 
substantially shorter period of  exceptionally low interest rates than it previously 
expected.3   
A statement along the lines of Alternative C would surprise financial market 
participants.  According to the Desk’s surv ey, the primary dealers see essentially zero 
probability of a change in the forward rate gui dance at this meeting.  Hence, the change 
in forward guidance envisioned in Alterna tive C—particularly the focus on exit in 
paragraph 3.1 in combination with the more sanguine economic outlook in paragraph 2—
would likely cause a sizable adjustment in market participants’ policy expectations, 
leaving market interest rates significantly higher at maturities beyond a year or so.  
Equity prices likely would fall, and the forei gn exchange value of the dollar would rise.  
If the Committee were to drop the date from its forward guidance, investors might well 
be quite uncertain, at least temporarily, about  the Committee’s intentions, at least until 
policymakers provided additional information.  
  
                                                 
3 Policymakers could also end the current maturity extension program at the end of this month, 
two months sooner than announced in September.  The Desk estimates that it will have executed a bit more 
than $300 b illion of purchases, and nearly the same amount of sales, by the end of April. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 25 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
 
 LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE 
The staff has prepared four scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet:  
two for Alternative A and one each for Alte rnative B and Alternative C.  The first 
scenario for Alternative A, referenced as A lternative A1 below, is consistent with the 
$400 billion expansion of the maturity extension program (MEP) described in paragraph 
3.1 of the draft statement for th at alternative.  Alternative A2 instead incorporates the 
$500 billion agency MBS purchase program in cluded in paragraph 3.2 of that draft 
statement.  Projections under each scenario are based on assu mptions about the trajectory 
of various components of the balance sheet.  Details of these assumptions, as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet, can be found in Explanatory 
Note D.  
 
For the balance sheet scenar io that corresponds to Alte rnative B, the Committee is 
assumed to complete the current MEP that it announced last September, purchasing a 
total of $400 billion (par value)  of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of six 
years or more and selling the same par amount of securities with re maining maturities of 
three years or less by the end of June 2012.  The Committee also continues to reinvest 
principal payments from its holdings of agen cy debt and MBS into agency MBS, while 
principal from maturing Treasur y securities is reinvested at auction according to the 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 26 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
 
 Desk’s current practice (that is, reinves ting roughly proportionally  across all Treasury 
securities that are being issued on the date the securities mature).  These policy choices 
would keep System Open Market Account (S OMA) securities holdi ngs roughly constant 
at about $2.6 trillion until mid-2014.  In this scenario, consistent with the statement 
language that the federal funds rate is expected  to be at exceptionally  low levels “at least 
through late 2014,” we assume that the first increa se in the target funds rate is in October 
2014.1  Based on this liftoff date, all reinvestment is assumed to cease—and the balance 
sheet therefore begins to cont ract—in April 2014, six months be fore the first increase in 
the target federal funds rate.  In April 2015, six months after the in itial increase in the 
target federal funds rate, the projection assu mes that the Committee begins to sell its 
remaining holdings of agency MBS and agency debt securities at a pace that reduces the 
amount of these securities in th e portfolio to zero in five years—that is, by March 2020.2  
The combination of no reinvestment and the sa le of agency securitie s normalizes the size 
of the balance sheet by August 2017.3,4  The balance sheet then  begins to expand, with 
increases in SOMA holdings essentially matc hing the growth of Federal Reserve capital 
and notes in circulation.  The balance sheet reaches a size of $2 trillion by the end of 
2020.  The size of the balance sheet normalizes at nearly the same time under Alternative 
B as it did in the March Tealbook.  From June 2018 onward, under all scenarios, the 
paths for total assets in the current projections  are close to the baseline path in the March 
Tealbook. 
In the scenario for A1, the Committee is assumed to initiate a new MEP that 
begins immediately following the completion of the current MEP in June.  Except for a 
modest change in the maturi ty range of securities bei ng sold, these operations would 
broadly follow those conducted under the current MEP.  Ov er a nine-month period, the 
Desk would sell $400 billion (par value) of Tr easury securities with remaining maturities 
                                                 
1 This liftoff date for the federal funds rate is the same as in the March Alternative B balance sheet 
projection, but later than the January 2014 date assumed in the staff forecast.   
2 Given the maturity schedule of the agency debt securities held in the SOMA, the volume of sales 
necessary to reduce holdings of these securities to zero over the five-year period is minimal. 
3 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurchase agreements and the Term Deposit 
Facility) are not modeled in any of the scenarios presented.  Use of these tools would result in a shift in the 
composition of Federal Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corresponding increase in 
reverse repurchase agreements or term deposits—but w ould not produce an overall change in the size of the 
balance sheet. 
4 The projected timing of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet depends importantly on 
the level of reserve balances that is assumed to be necessary to conduct monetary policy; currently, we 
assume that level of reserve balances to be $25 billi on.  A higher demand for reserve balances would, all 
else equal, lead to an earlier norma lization of the size of the balance sheet. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 27 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
 
 of four years or less and purchase the same am ount of Treasury securi ties with remaining 
maturities of six years or more.  As in Alternative B, reinvestment of all SOMA securities 
ends in April 2014, the target federal funds ra te lifts off in October 2014, sales of agency 
securities commence in April 2015, and holdings of agency secu rities fall to zero over 
five years.5  In this scenario, total assets woul d remain at roughly $2.8 trillion until mid-
2014, at which point total assets initially de cline due to the end of reinvestment.  
Normalization occurs in May 2018, nine months later than under Alte rnative B, reflecting 
the effects of the extended MEP in lengtheni ng the average maturity of Treasury holdings 
and slowing the pace of redemptions. 
In the scenario for Alternative A2, the Committee is assumed not only to 
complete the current MEP and continue the cu rrent reinvestment strategy but also to 
purchase an additional $500 billion of agency  MBS at a pace of about $40 billion per 
month beginning in May 2012 and extending thr ough April 2013.  In this scenario, total 
assets peak at $3.3 trillion in July 2013.  The additional purchases of agency MBS under 
Alternative A2 postpone the normalization of the size of the balance sheet until February 
2018, six months later than  under Alternative B.  
For the scenario that corresponds to A lternative C, the Committee completes the 
current MEP in June 2012.  In this scenario, th e federal funds rate is assumed to lift off in 
mid-2013, one and a quarter year s earlier than assumed in the other alternatives and, 
correspondingly, reinvestment of principal from maturing or prepaying securities ends earlier, in January 2013.  Sales of agency secu rities also commence earlier, in January 
2014.  The size of the balance sheet is norma lized in January 2017, seven months sooner 
than under Alternative B, primar ily reflecting the earlier halt to  reinvestment of principal 
and the earlier start of asset sales that result from the earlier liftoff of the target federal funds rate. 
On the liability side of the balance sheet, the forecasted path for reserve balances 
for Alternative B is roughly unchanged from the previous Tealbook’s baseline.  Under Alternative A1, reserve balances  remain elevated for a longer period of time than in the 
baseline, reflecting the portfolio having more longer-dated Treasury securities after the 
                                                 
5 Under Reserve Bank accounting, losses on the SOMA portfolio are only reflected in net income 
when securities are sold.  Under the current projections, even under Alternative A2, which has the highest 
volume of asset sales, losses are projected to be smaller than net earnings.  Considerable uncertainty 
surrounds these projections, however, and under plausible assumptions, losses could exceed earnings; in 
that case, remittances to the Treasury would cease, and a deferred asset would be booked. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 28 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
 
 implementation of the extended MEP.  Altern ative A2’s reserve balances peak at $2 
trillion—noticeably higher than in Alte rnative B—because of the MBS purchase 
program.  Under Alternative C, reserve balanc es decline earlier than in the baseline 
because the exit is assumed to begin earlier. 
In the scenario corresponding to Alterna tive B, the monetary base is relatively 
steady on net in 2012 and 2013, and then sh rinks through the th ird quarter of 2017, 
primarily reflecting a decline in reserve bala nces that results from the assumed policy 
actions beginning in 2014 to remove polic y accommodation and nor malize the balance 
sheet.  Starting in the fourth quarter of 2017, after reserve balances are assumed to have 
stabilized at $25 billion, the monetary base expands again, in line with the growth of 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation.  The m onetary base under Alternative A1 follows a 
path similar to that under Alternative B, though the resumption in the expansion of the 
monetary base is delayed by one year to the fourth quarter of 2018.  The monetary base 
under Alternative A2 expands subs tantially in the near term reflecting the rise in reserve 
balances that comes from the additional a sset purchases.  As the balance sheet is 
normalized in this scenario, the monetary base follows a path similar to that in Alternative B.  Under Alternative C, the monetary base begins to contract sooner than 
under the baseline because of the assumed earlier liftoff.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 29 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
 
  Jan-12 9.2 9.2 9.2 9.2 9.2
Feb-12 17.8 17.8 17.8 17.8 18.0
Mar-12 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 11.3
Apr-12 -23.8 -24.5 -24.4 -24.2 -31.7
May-12 2.5 1.8 1.9 1.7 -13.7
Jun-12 13.8 13.9 18.2 13.1 16.2
Jul-12 1.3 2.7 14.1 1.1 6.8
Aug-12 5.7 8.3 23.3 5.8 10.0
Sep-12 -6.2 -3.9 12.3 -6.3 -5.1
2011 Q1 36.8 36.8 36.8 36.8 36.82011 Q2 69.3 69.3 69.3 69.3 69.3
2011 Q3 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.0
2011 Q4 -5.9 -5.9 -5.9 -5.9 -5.9
2012 Q1 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.5 6.4
2012 Q2 -3.3 -3.6 -3.1 -3.6 -7.4
2012 Q3 4.4 5.6 15.7 4.0 6.0
2012 Q4 -5.3 -3.4 13.4 -5.4 -4.5
2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.92011 32.9 32.9 32.9 32.9 32.9
2012 0.3 1.0 8.0 0.1 0.1
2013 -0.2 0.5 10.9 -3.8 -0.32014 -2.4 -1.2 -2.7 -10.5 -2.0
2015 -10.8 -6.6 -11.6 -13.0 -10.7
2016 -19.6 -10.4 -20.2 -21.5 -19.8
2017 -15.9 -16.2 -22.2 -0.1 -17.7
2018 5.2 -12.0 -3.4 5.2 5.0
Note: Not seasonally adjusted.Annual - Q4 to Q4 MonthlyGrowth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternative B Alternative A1
Percent, annual rateAlternative CMemo: 
March 
Tealbook
QuarterlyAlternative A2
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 30 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial sector  debt is projected to e xpand at an annual rate of 
about 4¾ percent in the first half of the year , driven by a significant expansion in federal 
government debt and a modest rise in private nonfinancial debt.  For the remainder of the 
forecast period ending in 2014, domestic nonfinancial  debt growth is expected to slow to 
a pace of about 4 percent, on average, as fe deral debt advances le ss rapidly and private 
debt accelerates only gradually.  Nonfinancial business debt is projec ted to increase at a 
modest pace over the forecast period, refl ecting favorable financing conditions and 
increasing capital expenditures.  Home mortgage  debt is projected to bottom out this year 
and edge up a little in the next  two years, as financing condi tions are expected to remain 
tight, weakness in housing demand is antici pated to continue, and house prices are 
expected to increase only slowly.  Meanwhile , consumer credit is projected to expand 
throughout the forecast period, accelerating from a pace of 6½ percent in the first half of 
this year to about 7¾ percen t in 2014, driven by increasi ng student loans and growing 
expenditures on consumer durables as well as financing conditi ons that are more 
favorable than those for mortgages. 
Commercial bank credit is expected to increase at a moderate pace over the 
forecast period.  Core loans—the sum of comme rcial and industrial (C&I), real estate, 
and consumer loans—are projected to e xpand modestly during the remainder of 2012 
before picking up somewhat in 2013 and 2014, consistent with the anticipated gradual 
pickup in economic growth, as well as im provements in borrowers’ credit quality and 
banks’ willingness to lend over that period.  Among the core loan ca tegories, C&I loans 
are expected to show strong growth ove r the forecast period, continuing the brisk 
expansion observed in this loan category in re cent months.  In cont rast, commercial real 
estate loans are proj ected to contract through mid-2013, a nd only edge up thereafter, as 
high vacancy rates, depressed prices for co mmercial properties, and the poor credit 
quality of existing loans are likely to suppress activity in this sector .  As for lending to 
households, residential real estate loans on banks’ books are expected to move up only a 
little through the end of 2013 a nd then grow modestly in 20 14, while consumer loans are 
expected to advance gradually over the next three years.  Banks’ securities holdings are 
projected to rise at a moderate pace, with  growth in this categ ory slowing in 2013 and 
2014, driven by slower deposit growth and the st ronger expansion in bank loans relative 
to 2012. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 31 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
Staff anticipates that M2 will grow at roughly the same pace as nominal income 
over the remainder of this year.  However, the level of M2 is expected to remain elevated 
relative to that predicted by historical relationships with nominal income and opportunity 
cost, reflecting investors’ cont inued strong desire to hold safe  and liquid assets.  Over the 
medium term, investors are expected to shif t their portfolios toward higher-yielding  
non-M2 assets due to anticipated declines  in safe haven demands as the economic 
outlook improves.  Consequently, the rise in M2  is expected to slow to a pace appreciably 
below that of nominal GDP in 2013.  The expans ion of M2 in 2013 is also expected to be 
restrained by the expiration of unlimite d FDIC insurance on noninterest-bearing 
transaction accounts at the end of 2012.  In  2014, the projected tightening of monetary 
policy in the staff forecast combined with inve stors’ reallocation of assets away from M2 
is expected to cause the money stock to c ontract.  Turning to the components of M2, 
liquid deposits are expected to grow m oderately for the remainder of 2012, slow 
somewhat in 2013, and contract in 2014, in line with the portfolio r eallocation anticipated 
over this period.  In contrast, retail money f unds and small time deposits are projected to 
decline through 2013 and then increase slowly as the rates paid on these products adjust 
upward in response to tighter monetary policy.  Currency growth is expected to continue 
its solid pace in the near term, boosted by st rong international de mand, before returning 
to a pace consistent with its historic al average of 6 percent by early 2013. 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 32 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast*
Jan-12 15.9
Feb-12 3.0
Mar-12 3.6
Apr-12 7.4
May-12 3.3
Jun-12 3.3
Jul-12 4.8
Aug-12 4.8
Sep-12 4.8
Oct-12 4.3
Nov-12 4.2
Dec-12 4.2
Quarterly Growth Rates
2012 Q1 8.4
2012 Q2 4.7
2012 Q3 4.3
2012 Q4 4.5
2013 Q1 1.4
2013 Q2 3.0
2013 Q3 3.2
2013 Q4 1.9
Annual Growth Rates
2012 5.6
2013 2.4
2014 -1.8
* This forecast is consistent with nominal GDP and interest rates in the Tealbook 
forecast.  Actual data through March 2012; projections thereafter.Growth Rates for M2
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate)
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 33 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 DIRECTIVE  
The directive that was issued in Marc h appears on the next page, followed by 
drafts for an April directive that corres pond to each of the policy alternatives.   
The directives for Alternatives B and C would instruct the Desk to leave the total 
face value of domestic securi ties in the SOMA about unchanged and to take appropriate 
steps to complete by the end of June 2012 th e $400 billion maturity  extension program 
that was announced last September.  The directive for Alternative A also would instruct 
the Desk to complete the maturity extension program that was announced last September.  
In addition, under Alternative A, the Comm ittee either would direct the Desk to 
undertake a second $400 billion maturity extension program from July 2012 through 
March 2013, or the Committee would direct the Desk to execute purchases of agency MBS in order to raise the total face value of  the domestic securities holdings to about 
$3.1 trillion ($500 billion more than the SOMA ’s current holdings) by the end of April 
2013.  Each of the draft directiv es also would instruct the Desk to continue the current 
practice of rolling over maturing Treasury se curities at auction and of reinvesting 
principal payments on all agency debt and agency MBS in agency MBS. 
 
 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 34 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 March 2012 Directive  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 
years with a total f ace value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a total face valu e of $400 billion.  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policies of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities into new i ssues and of reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in 
agency mortgage-backed securities in order to  maintain the total face value of domestic 
securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Committee direct s the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to fac ilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's 
agency MBS transactions.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee's objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 35 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 April 2012 Directive—Alternative A  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 
years with a total f ace value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or le ss with a total f ace value of $400 billion. In 
addition, the Committee directs the Desk  to purchase, between July 2012 and the 
end of March 2013, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 
6 years to 30 years with a total face value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of 4  years or less with a total face value of $400 
billion.  The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policies of rolling 
over maturing Treasury securities into new issu es and of reinvesting principal payments 
on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed  securities in the System Open Market 
Account in agency mortgage-backed securities ; in order  these actions are intended  to 
maintain the total face value of domestic s ecurities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  The 
Committee directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll transactions as necessary to facilitate 
settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions.  The System Open Market 
Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing 
developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over 
time of the Committee's objectives of ma ximum employment and price stability. 
     OR  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 36 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 years with a total f ace value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or le ss with a total f ace value of $400 billion. In 
addition, the Committee directs the Desk to execute purchases of agency mortgage-
backed securities in order to increase the total face value of domestic securities held 
in the System Open Market Account to approximately $3.1 trillion by the end of 
April 2013.   The Committee also directs the Desk  to maintain its existing policies of 
rolling over maturing Treasury se curities into new issues and of reinvesting principal 
payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open 
Market Account in agency mortgage-backed secu rities in order to maintain the total face 
value of domestic securities at approximate ly $2.6 trillion .  The Committee directs the 
Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap  transactions as neces sary to facilitate 
settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions.  The System Open Market 
Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing 
developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over 
time of the Committee's objectives of ma ximum employment and price stability. 
 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 37 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 April 2012 Directive—Alternative B  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 
years with a total f ace value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a total face valu e of $400 billion.  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policies of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities into new i ssues and of reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in 
agency mortgage-backed securities in order to  maintain the total face value of domestic 
securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Committee direct s the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to fac ilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's 
agency MBS transactions.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee's objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 38 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 April 2012 Directive—Alternative C  
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 
years with a total f ace value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a total face valu e of $400 billion.  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policies of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities into new i ssues and of reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in 
agency mortgage-backed securities in order to  maintain the total face value of domestic 
securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Committee direct s the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to fac ilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's 
agency MBS transactions.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee's objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability.  
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 39 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 40 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Explanatory Notes  
A. Policy Rules Used in “M onetary Policy Strategies” 
The table below gives the expressions for th e selected policy rules used in “Monetary 
, while the t  denotes the nominal federal funds rate for quarter ௧  ܴ In the table, Policy Strategies.”  
right-hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation 
for the current quarter and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap estimate for the 
current period as well as its one-quarter-ahead forecast ( gap t and gap t+1|t) and the forecast of the 
three-quarter-ahead annual change in the output gap ( 4gap t+3|t).  The value of policymakers’ 
long-run inflation objective, denoted π*, is 2 percent.  The nominal income targeting rule 
responds to the nominal income gap, which is defined as the difference between nominal income 
 (100 times the log of כ
௧݊ݕ(  100 times the log of the level of nominal GDP) and a target value ௧ ݊ݕ
potential nominal GDP), where potential nominal GDP is defined as potential real GDP 
multiplied by a price target equal to the actual GDP deflator in the fourth quarter of 2007 and 
growing thereafter at a steady rate of 2 percent per year.1 
The first two of the selected rules were studied by Taylor (1993, 1999).  The outcome-
based rule uses policy reactions estimated using real-time data over the sample 
1988:Q12006:Q4.  The intercept of the outcome-based rule was chosen so that the real interest 
rate consistent with normal resource utilizati on over the medium term implied by the rule 
corresponded to the 2¼ percent rate that is embe dded in the FRB/US model.  The intercepts of 
the Taylor (1993, 1999) rules are set at 2¼ per cent—instead of Taylor’s original value of 2 
1 See Christopher Erceg, Michael T. Kiley, and J. David López-Salido (2011) for analysis of this 
rule.  The nominal GDP targeting rule in “Monetary Policy Strategies” differs slightly from the rule studied 
in that memo in setting the target equal to potential nominal GDP (rather than applying a growth rate to actual nominal GDP for the final quarter of 2007) and in having an interest-rate smoothing coefficient of 0.75 (a more standard value than the 0.9 value employed in the memo).  Background on the relationship 
between simple interest-rate rules and nominal income  targeting is provided in Bennett T. McCallum and 
Edward Nelson (1999) and Athanasios Orphanides (2003).  Taylor (1993) rule ௧݌ܽ݃0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ 2.25 ൌ ௧ ܴ
Taylor (1999) rule ௧ ݌ܽ݃ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ 2.25 ൌ ௧ ܴ
Outcome-based rule 0.19 ൅ ௧ିଶܴ0.39 െ ௧ିଵܴ1.2 ൌ ௧ܴ ሾ0.79 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ݌ܽ݃2.72 െ ௧݌ܽ݃3.66 ൅ ሿ 
First-difference rule ௧ାଷ൫ߨ0.5 ൅ ௧ିଵൌ ܴ௧ܴ | ௧ାଷ ݌ܽ݃ସΔ0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ 
Nominal income 
targeting rule  ሻ כ
௧ ݊ െ ݕ௧ ݊ ൅כ  ݕ2.25 ൅ ߨሺ0.25 ൅ ௧ିଵ 0.75ܴ ൌ ௧ ܴ
Explanatory Notes  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
   
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 41 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
percent—for the same reason.  The 2¼ percent real rate estimate also enters the long-run intercept 
of the nominal income targeting rule.  The prescr iptions of the first-difference rule do not depend 
on assumptions regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see Orphanides (2003).   
Near-term prescriptions from these rules are calculated using Tealbook projections for 
inflation and the output gap.  The first-differen ce rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the 
nominal income targeting rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-hand-side variable.  When 
the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, th e lines denoted “Previous Tealbook” report rule 
prescriptions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in the previous quarter.  When the Tealbook is published late in the quarter, 
the lines denoted “Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescriptions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, but jumping off from the average value for the policy rate thus far this 
quarter. 
REFERENCES  
 
Erceg, Christopher, Michael Kiley, and David López-Salido (2011).  “Alternative 
Monetary Policy Frameworks.”  Memo se nt to the Committee on October 6, 2011.  
McCallum, Bennett T., and Edward Nelson (19 99).  “Nominal Income Targeting in an 
Open-Economy Optimizing Model,” Journal of Monetary Economics , Vol. 43 (June), pp. 553–
578.  
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , Vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
Taylor, John B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , Vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214. 
Taylor, John B.  (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341. 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 42 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
B. Estimates of the Equilib rium and Actual Real Rates 
An estimate of the equilibrium real rate a ppears as a memo item in the first exhibit, 
“Policy Rules and the Staff Projection.”  The c oncept of the short-run equilibrium real rate 
underlying the estimate corresponds to the level of th e real federal funds rate  that is consistent 
with output reaching potential in twelve quarters using the projection for the economy of 
FRB/US, the staff’s large-scale econometric model of the U.S. economy.  This estimate depends 
on a very broad array of economic factors, some of  which take the form of projected values of the 
model’s exogenous variables.  The estimate reported is the “Tealbook-consistent” estimate of r*, 
which is generated after the path s of exogenous variables in the FRB/US model are adjusted so 
that they match those in the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model simulations then determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the exogenous 
variables in the extended baseline forecast. 
The estimated actual real federal funds rate reported in the exhibit is constructed as the 
difference between the federal funds rate and the trailing four-quarter change in the core PCE price index.  The federal funds rate is specified as the midpoint of the target range for the federal 
funds rate on the Tealbook Book B publication date. 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 43 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
C. FRB/US Model Simulations 
The exhibits of “Monetary Policy Strategies” that report results from simulations of 
alternative policies are derived from dynamic simu lations of the FRB/US model.  The simulated 
policy rule is assumed to be in force over the whole period covered by the simulation.  For the 
optimal control simulations, the dotted line la beled “Previous Tealbook” is derived from the 
optimal control simulations, when applied to the previous Tealbook projection. 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 44 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
D. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section titled “Long-Run Projections of the Bala nce Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are constructe d at a monthly frequency from April 2012 to 
December 2020.  The few balance sheet items th at are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level observed on March 30, 2012.  The projections for 
all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the tables that 
follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projections for the scenarios co rresponding to Alternatives A1, A2, and B 
assume that the target federal funds rate begins to increase in October 2014, consistent with the 
statements’ language that the federa l funds rate is expected to be  at exceptionally low levels “at 
least through late 2014.”  This date of liftoff is the same as that used in the March Tealbook for the Alternative A and B balance sheet projecti ons, but later than that assumed in the April 
Tealbook staff forecast.
2  The projection for the scenario co rresponding to Alternative C assumes 
the target rate lifts off in July 2013.  The ba lance sheet projections assume that no use of short-
term draining tools is necessary to achieve the projected path for the federal funds rate.3 
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency Mortgage-Backe d Securities (MBS), and Agency Debt 
Securities 
 The assumptions under Alternative B are: o Over the nine months beginning in Octo ber 2011, the FOMC is assumed to purchase 
$400 billion in par value of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of six years or more and sell the same par amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of three years or less.  The FOMC reinvests the proceeds from principal 
                                                 
2 The federal funds rate remains below 25 basis points through September 2014, then moves up 
gradually over time and converges to the projection assu med in the April Tealbook staff forecast by 2019.  
The projected path of the 10-year Treasury yield in th ese alternatives is the yield assumed in the April 
Tealbook staff forecast adjusted for the expectations effect of a later target  federal funds rate liftoff (see the 
box on “Forward Rate Guidance and Policy Expectations” from the January Tealbook Book B) and for the 
term premium effect associated with a larger SOMA portfolio than would be projected using the current Tealbook’s liftoff date.    
3 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities would change: Increases in term deposits and reverse 
repurchase agreements would be matched by corresponding declines in reserve balances.  Presumably, 
these draining tools would be wound down as the balance sheet returns to its steady state growth path, so 
that the projected paths for Treasury securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 45 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
payments on its agency securities holdings in agency MBS.  Treasury securities are 
rolled over at auction according to the Desk’s current practice (that is, reinvesting roughly proportionally across all Treasury securities that are being issued on the date the securities mature). 
o Principal payments from Treasury securiti es and agency MBS and agency debt 
securities are reinvested until April 2014—s ix months prior to the assumed increase 
in the target federal funds rate.
4 
o The Federal Reserve begins to sell agency  MBS and agency debt securities in April 
2015, roughly six months after the assumed da te of the first increase in the target 
federal funds rate.  Holdings of agency securities are reduced over five years and 
reach zero by March 2020. 
o For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment is  based on staff models using estimates of 
housing market factors from one of the program’s analytical providers, long-run average prepayment speeds of MBS, and interest rate projections from the Tealbook.  
The projected rate of prepayment is  sensitive to these underlying assumptions. 
 In the scenario corresponding to Alternative A1, the Committee is assumed to begin the 
next MEP immediately following the completion of the current MEP in June.  Except for 
a modest change in the maturity range of  securities being sold, these operations would 
broadly follow those conducted under the current MEP.  Over a nine-month period, the Desk would sell $400 billion par value of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of four years or less and purchase the sa me par amount of Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of six years or more.  The committee is also assumed to maintain its policies of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency securities into agency MBS and of rolling over maturing Tr easury securities at auction.  As in the 
baseline, reinvestment ends in April 2014 —six months prior to the assumed increase in 
the federal funds rate—and sales of agency securities begin in April 2015 and continue 
for five years. 
 In the scenario corresponding to Alternative A2, the Committee is assumed to begin a 
$500 billion LSAP program in May 2012 wher e it purchases current coupon agency MBS 
at a rate of about $40 billion per month th rough April 2013.  In addition, the Committee 
is expected to complete the current MEP and follow the same reinvestment policies as 
outlined in Alternatives A1 and B.  
 In the scenario corresponding to Alternative C,  the Committee is expected to complete 
the current MEP in June of this year.  Principal payments from Treasury securities 
continue to be reinvested at auction, and principal payments from agency MBS and agency debt securities are reinvested in agen cy MBS until January 2013, six months prior 
to the assumed increase in the federal funds rate , which is July 2013.  Sales of agency 
securities begin in January 2014 and continue for five years. 
                                                 
4 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflect interest rate projections as of April 17, 2012. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 46 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
 Because current and expected near-term ra tes are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at which these securities are purchased 
will generally exceed their face value, with  a larger premium for longer-maturity 
securities.  As a result, although the par va lue of securities holdings remains constant 
under the current MEP in the baseline and Alte rnative C, as well as in the extended MEP 
in A1, premiums associated with securities, and hence total assets, will have risen on net 
by about $59 billion in Alternatives B and C by the end of this program and a bit more in 
Alternative A1.  Reserve balances will increase by the same amount.   
 The large-scale asset purchase program in Alternative A2 would put downward pressure 
on market interest rates, in particular mortgage rates, and result in more MBS 
prepayments than in the baseline.   The lower path for interest rates in this alternative also 
leads to purchases of Treasury securities at prices that include a greater net premium 
relative to their face valu e than in the baseline. 
 The current and near-term market value of agency MBS is assumed to be four percent 
above its face value.  As a result, for Alternative A2, the $500 billion LSAP program will 
cause unamortized premiums on the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet to rise by roughly 
$20 billion relative to the baseline.  The increase in premiums is reflected in higher total assets and in higher reserve balances. 
 The level of central bank liquidity swaps is assumed to decline gradually through June, as 
the recent foreign central bank swap auctions mature, and then return to zero in July 
2012. 
 In all scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  Once reserve 
balances drop to this level, the Desk first purchases Treasury bills to maintain this level 
of reserve balances going forward.  Purchases of bills continue until such securities comprise one-third of the Federal Reserve’s total Treasury securities holdings—about the average share prior to the crisis.  Once this share is reached, the Federal Reserve buys coupon securities in addition to bills to main tain an approximate composition of the 
portfolio of one-third bills and two-thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
 Credit through the Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) declines to zero 
by the end of 2015, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
 The assets held by TALF LLC remain at about  $1 billion through 2014  before declining 
to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF LLC consist of investments of 
commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in connec tion with a decision of a borrower to not 
repay a TALF loan. 
 The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC and Maid en Lane III LLC decline to zero gradually 
over time. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 47 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2014.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as in the extended Tealbook 
projection. 
 The level of reverse repurchase agreements (RRPs) is assumed to remain around $70 
billion, about the average level of RRPs associat ed with foreign official and international 
accounts observed over the past three years. 
 Balances held in the U.S. Treasury’s Gene ral Account (TGA) follow recent patterns until 
the assumed increase in the target federal funds rate in each alternative.  At that point, the 
TGA slowly drops back to its historical targ et level of $5 billion as it is assumed that the 
Treasury will implement a new cash management system and invest funds in excess of $5 billion. The TGA remains constant at $5 billion over the remainder of the forecast period. 
 We maintain the Supplementary Financing Acc ount (SFA) balance at its current level of 
zero throughout the forecast. 
 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years.
5 
 In general, increases in the level of Federa l Reserve assets are matched by higher levels 
of reserve balances.  All else equal, increase s in the levels of liability items, such as 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation or other liabilities, or increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 billion, purchases of 
Treasury securities are assumed in order to ma intain that level of reserve balances. 
 In the event that a Federal Reserve Bank’s earnings fall short of the amount necessary to 
cover operating costs, pay dividends, and equa te surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred 
asset would be recorded.  This deferred asset is recorded in lieu of reducing the Reserve 
Bank’s capital and is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet as “Interest on 
Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”   This liability takes on a positive value 
when weekly cumulative earnings have not yet been distributed to the Treasury and takes 
on a negative value when earnings fall shor t of the expenses listed above.  In the 
projections, System-wide earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses, and this 
line item is set to zero. 
                                                 
5 The annual growth rate of cap ital impacts the date of normali zation of the size of the balance 
sheet and the size of the SOMA portfolio.  Growth in Reserve Bank capital has been modest over the past 
two years; however, even if Federal Reserve capital were assumed to be constant, normalization only 
would be pushed later by about a quarter. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 48 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
TERM PREMIUM EFFECTS6 
 Under Alternative B, the current staff estimates of the contemporaneous term premium 
effect on the yield of the ten-year Treasury note is negative 61 basis points.  Based on the 
projection for the balance sheet, that term premium effect converges slowly toward zero 
over the forecast period as the portfolio normalizes. 
 Under either version of Alternative A, the te rm premium effect is somewhat larger than 
in the baseline, at negative 77 basis points.  Th e larger term premium effect is a result of 
the balance sheet programs assumed. 
 Under Alternative C, the term premium effect is somewhat smaller than under 
Alternative B, at negative 54 basis points.  The smaller term premium effect is a result of 
the lower projected path for the balance sheet that results from the earlier assumed 
increase in the federal funds rate. 
 
                                                 
6 Staff estimates use the model outlined in the appendix of the January 18, 2012, memo “Possible 
MBS Large-Scale Asset Purchase Program” written by staff at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and 
the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 49 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
     
 
 Date Alternative B Alternative A1 Alternative A2 Alternative C
2012 Q2 -61 -77 -77 -54
2012 Q3 -58 -74 -74 -51
2012 Q4 -55 -71 -71 -48
2013 Q1 -51 -67 -67 -44
2013 Q2 -48 -64 -63 -41
2013 Q3 -45 -60 -59 -37
2013 Q4 -41 -56 -55 -34
2014 Q1 -38 -52 -51 -31
2014 Q2 -35 -48 -47 -28
2014 Q3 -32 -45 -43 -26
2014 Q4 -29 -41 -39 -23
2015 Q1 -27 -38 -35 -21
2015 Q2 -24 -35 -32 -19
2015 Q3 -22 -32 -29 -17
2015 Q4 -20 -29 -26 -15
2016 Q1 -18 -27 -23 -14
2016 Q2 -16 -25 -21 -13
2016 Q3 -15 -22 -19 -11
2016 Q4 -13 -20 -17 -10
2017 Q1 -12 -19 -15 -10
2017 Q2 -11 -17 -13 -9
2017 Q3 -10 -15 -12 -8
2017 Q4 -10 -14 -11 -8
2018 Q1 -9 -13 -10 -8
2018 Q2 -8 -12 -9 -8
2018 Q3 -8 -11 -9 -7
2018 Q4 -8 -10 -8 -7
2019 Q1 -7 -10 -8 -7
2019 Q2 -7 -9 -7 -7
2019 Q3 -7 -9 -7 -6
2019 Q4 -6 -8 -6 -6
2020 Q1 -6 -8 -6 -6
2020 Q2 -5 -7 -5 -5
2020 Q3 -5 -7 -5 -5
2020 Q4 -5 -6 -5 -5Term Premium Effect
Basis Points
Quarterly Averages
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 50 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A1
Billions of dollars
Mar 30, 2012 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,859 2,857 2,758 2,324 1,820 2,028
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 46 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 46 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 7 3 1 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 7 3 1 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 23 20 16 12 7 4
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC23 20 16 12 7 4
Securities held outright 2,594 2,589 2,515 2,121 1,653 1,882
U.S. Treasury securities 1,661 1,650 1,629 1,570 1,445 1,882
Agency debt securities 96 77 39 16 2 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 837 862 847 535 206 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 187 244 225 190 160 142
Total liabilities 2,805 2,795 2,676 2,215 1,677 1,839
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,057 1,115 1,257 1,403 1,561 1,723
Reverse repurchase agreements 97 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,631 1,593 1,333 726 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,550 1,507 1,328 721 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 43 86 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 37 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury3 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 54 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 51 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A2
Billions of dollars
Mar 30, 2012 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,859 3,094 3,171 2,251 1,821 2,028
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 46 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 46 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 7 3 1 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 7 3 1 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 23 20 16 12 7 4
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC23 20 16 12 7 4
Securities held outright 2,594 2,850 2,952 2,077 1,685 1,915
U.S. Treasury securities 1,661 1,650 1,596 1,228 1,362 1,915
Agency debt securities 96 77 39 16 2 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 837 1,123 1,318 833 320 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 187 220 201 161 129 110
Total liabilities 2,805 3,032 3,089 2,142 1,677 1,839
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,057 1,115 1,257 1,403 1,561 1,723
Reverse repurchase agreements 97 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,631 1,830 1,745 654 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,550 1,744 1,740 648 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 43 86 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 37 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury3 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 54 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 52 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative B
Billions of dollars
Mar 30, 2012 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,859 2,819 2,674 1,936 1,821 2,028
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 46 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 46 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 7 3 1 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 7 3 1 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 23 20 16 12 7 4
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC23 20 16 12 7 4
Securities held outright 2,594 2,589 2,482 1,779 1,692 1,915
U.S. Treasury securities 1,661 1,650 1,596 1,228 1,483 1,915
Agency debt securities 96 77 39 16 2 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 837 862 847 535 206 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 187 207 175 145 122 109
Total liabilities 2,805 2,757 2,593 1,828 1,677 1,839
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,057 1,115 1,257 1,403 1,561 1,723
Reverse repurchase agreements 97 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,631 1,555 1,249 339 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,550 1,469 1,244 334 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 43 86 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 37 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury3 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 54 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 53 of 54
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
Billions of dollars
Mar 30, 2012 20122014201620182020
Total assets 2,859 2,814 2,357 1,649 1,820 2,028
Selected assets
Liquidity programs for financial firms 46 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 46 0 0 0 0 0
Lending through other credit facilities 7 3 1 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 7 3 1 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 23 20 16 12 7 4
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC,
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC23 20 16 12 7 4
Securities held outright 2,594 2,589 2,171 1,499 1,698 1,918
U.S. Treasury securities 1,661 1,650 1,519 1,176 1,698 1,918
Agency debt securities 96 77 39 16 0 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 837 862 613 306 0 0
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 187 202 169 138 115 106
Total liabilities 2,805 2,752 2,275 1,541 1,677 1,839
Selected liabilities
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,057 1,115 1,257 1,403 1,561 1,723
Reverse repurchase agreements 97 70 70 70 70 70
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,631 1,550 932 52 30 30
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,550 1,464 926 47 25 25
U.S. Treasury, General Account 43 86 5 5 5 5
Other Deposits 37 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due
to U.S. Treasury3 0 0 0 0 0
Total capital 54 62 82 108 143 189
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
April 19, 2012
Page 54 of 54
Authorized for Public Release