Prefatory Note 
Th
e attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.   
Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
Content last modified 01/29/2016. 
Class I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions  
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
December 9, 2010 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(This page is intentionally blank.)
   
                                                 
1 Since the November Tealbook, the staff has im plemented two changes to the optimal control 
simulations that make it difficult to compare the curre nt optimal policy results to those originally reported 
in the November Tealbook.  First, the staff has re-specified and re-es timated the FRB/US wage and price 
equations, thereby changing the dynamics of inflation in the model.  Second, the staff has modified the 
expectational assumptions used in the optimal policy simulations.  Specifically, it is now assumed that the 
expectations influencing wage-and-price setting, and not just those affecting financial asset prices, are fully 
model consistent; previously, wage-and-price expectati ons reflected the average hi storical co-movement of Monetary Policy Strategies 
The exhibit, “Equilibrium Real Federal F unds Rate,” displays estimates of short-
run r* , defined as the real federal funds rate th at, if maintained starting in the current 
quarter, would return output to its potential in twelve quarters.  Cha nges in the estimates 
of short-run r* since November have been mixed.  The Tealbook-consistent measure of 
short-run r*  for the fourth quarter of 2010 genera ted from the FRB/US model has edged 
lower by 10 basis points, to minus 2.0 percent,  as the staff’s downward revision to the 
outlook for the housing sector and somewhat less favorable financial conditions have 
marginally outweighed the positive effects from revised fiscal assumptions as well as 
incoming data on consumption and investment spending.  The Tealbook-consistent measure of short-run r* generated by the EDO model has fallen by 50 basis points to 
minus 2.8 percent.  Since the incoming data ha ve led the staff to narrow its estimate of 
the current output gap, estimates of short-run r* from the single-equation model and the 
small structural model—which are both conditi oned on the staff’s assessment of recent 
output gap behavior—have increased since Nove mber, but remain at very low levels.  
The incoming data on investment spending contri buted to an increase of 60 points in the 
estimate of short-run r* generated by the FRB/US model when using its own projections.  
The estimate generated by the EDO model usin g its own projections has decreased by 
less than its Tealbook-cons istent counterpart. 
The exhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstraine d Monetary Policy” displays the policy 
prescriptions produced by optimal control si mulations of the FRB/US model based on the 
extended staff baseline projection.  As disc ussed in Tealbook Book A, the staff baseline 
forecast incorporates the effects of the Fede ral Reserve’s large-scale asset purchases, and 
these effects are held unchanged at their baseline levels in the optimal policy simulations.  In these simulations, policymakers are assu med to place equal weight on keeping core 
PCE inflation close to a 2 percent inflation goal, on keeping unemployment close to the effective NAIRU, and on minimizing ch anges in the federal funds rate.
1  The simulations 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 1 of 46
Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010-10-8-6-4-202468 
-10-8-6-4-202468Percent     
 
Note: Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals.  The actual real federal funds rate shown is based on lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation expectations.
For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A.  Estimates of r* may change at the beginning of a
quarter even when there is no shift in the staff outlook because the twelve quarter horizon covered by the calculation
has rolled forward one quarter.  Therefore, whenever the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, this table includes
a third column labeled "Current Quarter Estimate as of Previous Tealbook."Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation
Range of four model-based estimates
70 Percent confidence interval
90 Percent confidence interval
Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US)
Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures
 
Current Tealbook Previous Tealbook
   
Short-Run Measures   
   
   Single-equation model -2.0 -2.4
   
   Small structural model -2.4 -2.7
   
   EDO model -0.1 (0.1
   
   FRB/US model -2.5 -3.1
   
   Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates   
   
      70 percent confidence interval -3.5 to 0.1  
   
      90 percent confidence interval -4.4 to 1.2  
   
   Tealbook-consistent measures   
   
      EDO model -2.8 -2.3
   
      FRB/US model -2.0 -1.9
   
Medium-Run Measures   
   
   Single-equation model (1.1 (1.2
   
   Small structural model (1.3 (
1.2
   
   Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates   
   
      70 percent confidence interval (0.3 to 2.1  
   
      90 percent confidence interval -0.5 to 2.7  
   
   TIPS-based factor model (2.0 2.0
   
Memo   
   
   Actual real federal funds rate -0.8 -1.2
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 2 of 46
Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy
(2 Percent Inflation Goal)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-6-4-202468 
-6-4-202468Percent
 Nominal Federal Funds Rate
Current Tealbook: Constrained
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained
Previous Tealbook: Unconstrained
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-8-6-4-2024 
-8-6-4-2024Percent
 Real Federal Funds Rate
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 201534567891011 
34567891011Percent
 Civilian Unemployment Rate
Note: As discussed in the text note, the lines "Previous Tealbook" depict optimal control paths based on the previous
Tealbook's staff outlook, but using the re-specified model under the new expectational assumptions.2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20150.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Percent
 Core PCE Inflation
Four-quarter average
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 3 of 46
    
  indicate that the optimal pa th of policy is importantly constrained by the zero lower 
bound on nominal interest rates.  With the lower-bound constraint imposed, the federal 
funds rate does not begin to rise appr eciably until the second quarter of 2014, the 
unemployment rate remains above the staff estimate of the effective NAIRU until the 
third quarter of 2014, and inflation stays below its target rate until the second quarter of 
2015 (black solid lines).2  But if the nominal funds rate  could fall below zero, optimal 
policy would call for the nominal funds rate to  decline to around mi nus 3 percent in the 
first quarter of 2012 before moving up to posit ive levels in the fourth quarter of 2013 
(blue dashed line).  Changes in the staff ou tlook since November have had little effect on 
the unconstrained optimal funds rate path; the modest revisions shown almost entirely 
reflect the shift of the start date of the optimization forward one quarter.  The unconstrained policy, if it were feasible, would bring the une mployment rate down to the 
staff estimate of the effective NAIRU about three quarters earl ier than under the 
constrained policy and inflation would reach the 2 percen t target by the beginning of 
2015.  As discussed in the box “The Ro le of Commitment in Optimal Policy 
Simulations,” optimal policy in both the c onstrained and unconstrained cases provides 
additional stimulus over the near term, effectively, by promising to temporarily overshoot 
the inflation target later in the decade.   
As shown in the exhibit, “The Policy Ou tlook in an Uncertain Environment,” the 
staff’s estimated outcome-based policy rule pr escribes keeping the federal funds rate at 
its effective lower bound through the fourth quarter of 2012, the same as in the November 
Tealbook.
3  Over the intermeeting period, the expect ed federal funds rate path implied by 
financial market data has shifted upward.  Market quotes suggest th at the federal funds 
rate is expected to rise above  the current target range in the fourth quarter of 2011, about 
three quarters earlier than anticipated at th e time of the previous Tealbook.  Thereafter, 
the expected path for the federal funds rate  rises gradually to 2 percent by the end of 
2014, which is about ½ percentage point higher  than in November.  The lower panel of 
                                                                                                                                                 
inflation, interest rates, and the output gap.  In light of both modifications, the exhibit does not show the 
actual unconstrained optimal policy results reported in the November Tealbook, but instead the paths as 
they would have appeared had they been generated using the re-specified model and the new expectational 
assumptions. 
2 Reflecting the transitory effects of extended une mployment benefits, the staff’s estimate of the 
effective NAIRU falls from 6½ percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 6 percent by the fourth quarter of 2012, and then to 5¼ percent by the end of 2015. 
3 As noted in Tealbook Book A, the staff baseline pr ojection for the federal funds rate is now based on 
the outcome-based policy rule, and so the top-left panel no longer needs to report the staff assumption separately. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 4 of 46
The Policy Outlook in an Uncertain Environment
2010 2011 2012 2013 20140123456789 
0123456789Percent
 
Note: In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers' long-run inflation objective is
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. The first-difference rule, the 
estimated outcome-based rule and the estimated forecast-based rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-hand-side
variable.  Since this Tealbook is published late in the quarter, the lines denoted "Previous Tealbook Outlook" report rule
prescriptions based on the previous Tealbook's staff outlook, but jumping off from the average value for the policy rate
thus far this quarter. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule
Note: In both panels, the dark and light shading represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively.
Financial market quotes are as of December 8.Current Tealbook
Previous Tealbook
Memo2010 2011 2012 2013 20140123456789 
0123456789Percent
 Information from Financial Markets
Current Tealbook
Previous Tealbook
 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules
 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy
  
2011Q1 2011Q2 2011Q1 2011Q2
      
Taylor (1993) rule 0.13 0.13  -0.90
-0.81
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.82 -0.71
      
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13  -4.09 -3.89
      
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -4.21 -4.00
      
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13  -0.42 -1.05
      
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13  -0.51 -1.17
      
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13  -0.42 -0.98
      
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13  -0.47 -1.05
      
First-difference rule 0.16 0.26  0.16 0.26
      
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.19 0.43  0.19 0.43
2011Q1 2011Q2
    
Staff assumption  0.13 0.13
    
Fed funds futures  0.15
0.13
    
Median expectation of primary dealers  0.13 0.13
    
Blue Chip forecast (December 1, 2010)  0.20 0.20
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 5 of 46
    
  the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions fr om simple policy rules.  As shown in the 
left-hand columns, all prescriptions—except for the first difference rule—remain at the 
effective lower bound.  The right-hand columns show the prescriptions that would be 
implied by these rules in the absence of the lower bound.  Apart from the first-difference 
rule, all unconstrained rule prescriptions cont inue to be negative, ranging from minus 
4.09 to minus 0.42 percent.4 
                                                 
4 The unconstrained prescriptions from the estima ted outcome-based rule an d the estimated forecast-
based rule have risen for mechanical reasons related to the inclusion of the lagged policy rate as a right-
hand-side variable in both rules.  In the November Tealbook, the lagged policy rate entering the 2011:Q1 
rule prescription was the (negative) value for 2010:Q4 obtained by projecting from the rule, whereas in the 
current Tealbook the calculations use the actual funds rate value of 0.15 percent for 2010:Q4, and this 
change boosts the rule prescription.  As in the previous Tealbook the unconstrained prescriptions from the 
first-difference rule are slightly above zero because th e rule responds to the staff’s assessment of near-term 
growth which, in contrast to the output gap, is positive. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 6 of 46
   
 The Role of Commi tment in Optimal Policy Simulations  
The optimal  policy simulations  regularly  presented  in the Tealbook  assume that 
policymakers  are able to credibly  commit to a specific  policy path extending  
many years into the future, conditional  on underlying  economic  conditions  
unfolding  as expected.   The ability  to make such an extended  commitment  
provides greater scope for policymakers  to guide expectations  for th e future 
path of the federal funds rate in a way that helps to bring inflation and 
unemployment  more rapidly to their desired levels.   Specifically,  policymakers  
can promise  to keep monetary  policy unusually  easy for a time in the future,  
thereby raising inflation above its  objective  at that  time, which boosts inflation 
expectations  and lowers real interest rates in  the near term, helping to foster  a 
stronger recovery.1  This ability to provide  credible forward guidance is  especially  
important  to the effectiveness  of optimal policy when the  zero lower bound  
binds because,  with short‐ term interest rates at zero, the only operative lever  for 
policymakers  in these simulations  is the management  of expectations.2 
In practice,  however,  policymakers  may be unable or  unwilling  to credibly  
commit to the types  of policy actions assumed  in the standard  optimal‐policy 
simulations.   For one, such strategies  presume  effective  communication  of the 
strategy.  Perhaps  more importantly,  these strategies  also involve promising  to 
take future policy actions that may appear undesirable to both  policymakers  and 
the public when that  future period arrives.  In particular,  the optimal policy paths 
reported  in the text have  the feature that, when it comes time to deliver  on the 
pledge to keep the federal funds  rate below  what economic  conditions  at that 
point would otherwise  call for, policymakers  may find themselves  wishing to 
renege on their earlier commitment.   This possibility  alone could prevent such 
extended  commitments  from ever being  deemed credible by the public.  
The incentive  to renege  on earlier commitments  is illustrated  by the outcomes  
under commitment  that are discussed  in the main text  and replicated  by the red 
lines in the charts on the facing page.  When policy  is constrained  by the zero 
lower bound  (left column  of the chart), inflation noticeably  overshoots  the 
assumed target of  2 percent during the second half of the decade, after  
unemployment  has returned  to its target.  The (credi ble) promise to produce this  
future overshooting  helps to boost inflation  expectations  and lower real interest 
rates today.  As  a result, real activity  and inflation return more quickly to their 
desired levels  than in the baseline staff projection,  which follows a simple 
estimated  policy rule (the black lines). 
                                                 
1 The success of this strategy relies both on the ability  of policymakers  to credibly commit 
to the policy and on inflation expectations  being  forward looking. 
2 Policymakers  could also  try to attain their objectives  through asset purchases,  but the 
standard  optimal‐policy simulations  abstract from this possibility.   Implicitly,  the optimal 
control exercises  assume that the trajectory  of asset  purchases  is the same as in the baseline.   
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 7 of 46
   
 As noted, these outcomes  rest on strong assumptions  about the credibility  of 
forward guidance.   An alternative to optimal  policy under commitment  assumes  
that policymakers  have a limited  ability or willingness  to constrain  their future 
actions.   Instead, they choose the best course of action today conditional  on 
future policies being set optimally  given conditions  at those points  in time.  By 
design, this  strategy rules  out situations  in which policymakers  have an incentive 
in future periods to deviate  from the funds path originally  expected  by private 
agents so long as economic  conditions  unfold as expected.   Paths for the federal  
funds rate generated  under this assump tion are typically referred to as optimal 
policy under discretion. 3 
3Under both discretion  and commitment,  policymakers  wish to keep inflation and 
unemployment  close to their targets (2 percent and the effective  NAIRU, respectively)  while 
minimizing  quarter‐ to‐quarter  changes in the federal funds rate.  Discretion  differs from 
commitment  in what policymakers  assume about  the manner in which future policy is set.  
Under commitment,  policymakers  determine  a strategy for policy for the current and future 
periods,  conditional  on the economic  outlook, and do not update  that  strategy in future 
periods barring new information  about  economic  developments  (in which case adjustments  
are made that are consistent  with the initially determined  strategy).   In contrast,  policymakers  
under  discretion  know that future policymakers  will not be bound by today’s decisions,  and 
will update their strategy in each future period.  As a result, under this approach  policymakers  
have much less ability  to manage the public’s  expectations  regarding  future policy actions.  
Academic  presentations  also  refer to optimal policy under discretion  as time‐consistent  and 
optimal policy under commitment  as time‐inconsistent , reflecting  the incentive  to renege.  The blue lines  in the charts illustrate the  optimal funds rate paths  when policy is 
made under discretion  (that is, without  commitment),  together  with the 
resulting paths of unemployment  and inflation.    The constrained  optimal policy 
path for the funds  rate under  discretion  is only a little more  accommodative  than 
the staff baseline assumption,  and so yields only  mod estly lower unemployment  
and higher inflation.   In the constrained  case, the federal funds  rate rises  above 
its effective  lower bound  one year earlier under discretion  than under 
commitment,  as policymakers  respond to the improvement  in activity that has 
occurred  by late 2012.  Although policy  under discretion  does have the advantage  
of keeping inflation from overshooting, it  yields higher  unemployment  than 
obtained  under commitment.   Accordingly, these results  illustrate  the potential  
gains of committing  to a longer  period of accommodative  policy.  
If interest  rates are hypothetically  allowed to fall below  zero, the simulation  
results are broadly similar to  those in the constrained  case (right column of the 
chart).  For example,  under commitment  inflation still overshoots  its target.   
However, eliminating  the zero lower bound  constraint  reduces the relative  
importance of  the expectational  channel of monetary  policy, because 
policymakers  are able to substitute  actual funds rate reductions  today for 
promises  of lower funds rates in the future.  As  a result, outcomes  with and  
without commitment  differ by less than  they do when interest rates are 
constrained  by the zero bound.    
 
                                                 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 8 of 46
   
  
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 9 of 46
(This page is intentionally blank.)
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 10 of 46
 
 
 Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents four policy altern atives—labeled A, B, C, and D—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  Alternative B rea ffirms the intended increase in securities 
holdings and the pace of purchases that the Committee announced in November.  Under 
Alternative A, the Committ ee would provide further monetary policy stimulus by 
augmenting the program of additional purch ases of longer-term securities.  Under 
Alternative C, the asset-purch ase program would be scaled back by reducing the monthly 
pace of purchases, while under Alternative D, the program would be discontinued.  All of 
the alternatives maintain the existing target for the federal funds rate.  Alternative A provides more explicit forward guidance conc erning the period over which the funds rate 
is likely to remain at its effective lower bound.  Alternatives B and C retain the familiar 
“extended period” language.  A lternative D would signal that the period of exceptionally 
low funds rates is likely to come to an end in the near future and that  the reinvestment of 
principal payments may also be brought to a close before long. 
The statement under Alternative B woul d again characterize the information 
received over the intermee ting period as confirming th at the economic recovery 
“continues to be slow,” and express the Committee’s judgment that “the unemployment 
rate is elevated.”   Altern ative B would state that measur es of underlying inflation are 
“somewhat low” and that they “have con tinued to trend downwar d.”  The statement 
would reiterate that progress toward the Committee’s objectives “has been disappointingly slow.”  Under this alternative, the FOMC would reaffirm its November 
decision to purchase an additional $600 bill ion of longer-term Tr easury securities by the 
end of the second quarter of 2011 at a p ace of about $75 billion per month.  The 
Committee would also maintain its existi ng policy of reinvesting in longer-term 
Treasuries the principal payments from agen cy debt and mortgage-backed securities 
(MBS).  Finally, the Committee would continue to state that it “will regularly review” the 
asset-purchase program and will make adjustments as needed to achieve its objectives. 
Under Alternative A, the Committee woul d give an assessment of economic 
conditions and the outlook similar to that in Alternative B.  Alternative A does, however, 
retain the November characte rization of household spending  as increasing “gradually” 
(rather than “at a moderate pace,” as in Alternative B) and describes measures of 
underlying inflation as “low.”  The statement would announce that “in light of incoming 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 11 of 46
    
information,” the Committee was increasing the ultimate size of its planned purchase 
program by $200 billion, raising the intended total increase in the Federal Reserve’s 
securities holdings to $800 billion by the end of the third quarter of 2011, while 
maintaining a pace of monthly purchases of about $75 billion.  The forward guidance for 
the federal funds rate would be more explicit, indicating an expectati on that the target for 
the funds rate would stay at its curren t level “at least thr ough mid-2012.”  As in 
November, the Committee would state that it would “regularly review” its asset-purchase 
program and “will employ its policy tools as  necessary” to pursue its objectives. 
Under Alternative C, the Committee would state that the recovery “is continuing” 
but that progress toward Comm
ittee objectives “has been slow.”  Alternative C would 
scale back the planned expansion of securiti es holdings to $400 billion and reduce the 
pace of purchases from $75 billion per month to around $50 billion per month.  The 
Committee would state that it will maintain th e current target for th e funds rate for an 
extended period and continue its policy of reinvesting the proceeds of principal payments into Treasury securities.  The Committee would repeat its November  indication that it 
would “regularly review” its purchase program and would “adjust the program as 
needed,” thus leaving open the possibility th at further policy adjustments could be taken 
in coming months in response to economic developments. 
Alternative D would state that the economic recovery “is proceeding.”  The 
statement would announce the immediate disc ontinuation of the asset-purchase program 
announced in November and would also si gnal that other steps toward a less 
accommodative stance of policy are likely soon.  While maintaining the target for the 
federal funds rate at its curre nt level, the Committee would in dicate that it anticipated the 
rate staying at “low levels” for “some time” ra ther than at “exceptionally low levels” for 
“an extended period” as in the previous st atement.  In addition, the Committee would 
state that its policy of rei nvesting the proceeds of prin cipal repayments would be 
continued only for “the time being,” suggesti ng that this policy was likely to end soon.   
The next page summarizes key aspects of each alternative, and is followed by 
complete draft statements and the argument s for each alternative.  As always, the 
Committee could mix components of the various alternatives to construct its desired 
statement.  
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 12 of 46
    
Table 1:  Overview of Alternatives  for the December 14 FOMC Statement 
 
Key 
Components November 
Statement December Alternatives 
A B C D 
Economic Activity  
Recent 
Developments pace of recovery continues to be slow pace of recovery continues to be slow recovery is 
continuing economic recovery is proceeding 
Labor  Market pace of recovery 
continues to be slow; high 
unemployment; 
employers remain 
reluctant to add to 
payrolls; unemployment 
rate is elevated pace of recovery continues to be slow  recovery is 
continuing 
 
n.a. high unemployment n.a. 
employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls;  
unemployment rate is elevated 
Outlook gradual return to higher 
resource utilization with 
price stability  gradual return to higher resource utilization with price stability 
progress has been disappointingly slow progress remains disappointingly 
slow progress has been 
disappointingly 
slow progress has been 
slow n.a. 
Inflation 
Recent Developments expectations stable, but 
underlying inflation has 
trended lower; measures 
are somewhat low  expectations stable, 
but underlying 
inflation has 
continued to trend 
downward; 
measures are low expectations stable, but underlying 
inflation has 
continued to trend 
downward; 
measures are 
somewhat low expectations stable, 
but underlying 
inflation has 
trended lower; 
measures are 
somewhat low although underlying 
inflation has trended 
lower, expectations 
have remained 
stable 
Outlook same as “Economic 
Activity” outlook above same as “Economic Ac tivity” outlook above 
Target Federal Funds Rate 
Intermeeting 
Period 0 to ¼ percent 0 to ¼ percent 
Forward 
Guidance  exceptionally low levels for an extended period exceptionally low levels at least 
through mid-2012 exceptionally low levels  
for an extended period low levels for some 
time 
SOMA Portfolio Policy 
Approach  $600 billion of Treasuries 
by end of 2011:Q2, $75 
billion per month $800 billion of 
Treasuries ($200b 
more than Nov.), 
$75 billion per 
month, through 
2011:Q3 $600 billion of 
Treasuries by end of 
2011:Q2, $75 
billion per month $400 billion of 
Treasuries ($200b 
less than Nov.), $50 
billion per month, 
through 2011:Q2 discontinue program 
announced in 
November 
maintain reinvestment 
policy  maintain reinvestment policy for the time being, 
maintain existing 
reinvestment policy 
Future Policy Action  
Approach will adjust program as 
needed; will employ 
policy tools as necessary 
to support the recovery 
and to help ensure that 
inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with its 
mandate  will adjust program as needed; will employ policy tools as 
necessary to support the recovery and to help ensure that 
inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate will employ policy 
tools as necessary to 
promote maximum 
employment and 
price stability 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 13 of 46
    
NOVEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September 
confirms that the pace of r ecovery in output and employme nt continues to be slow.  
Household spending is increasing gra dually, but remains constrained by high 
unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit.  Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though less rapidly than earlier in the year, while inve stment in nonresidential structur es continues to be weak.  
Employers remain reluctant to add to payr olls.  Housing starts  continue to be 
depressed.  Longer-term inflation expectations have remained  stable, but measures of 
underlying inflation have trende d lower in recent quarters. 
 
2. Consisten
 t with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate is elevated, and 
measures of underlying inflation are somewh at low, relative to levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent, over th e longer run, with its dual mandate.  
Although the Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher le vels of resource 
utilization in a context of price stabilit y, progress toward its objectives has been 
disappointingly slow.    
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recove ry and to help ensure that inflation, 
over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee decided today to 
expand its holdings of securities.  The Committee will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its  securities holdings.  In addition, the 
Committee intends to purchase a further $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of the second quar ter of 2011, a pace of about $75 billion per 
month.  The Committee will regularly review the pace of its securities purchases and 
the overall size of the asset- purchase program in light of incoming information and 
will adjust the program as needed to be st foster maximum em ployment and price 
stability.  
4. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds rate for an extended 
period.  
5. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy t ools as necessary to  support the economic 
recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its 
mandate. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 14 of 46
    
DECEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A  
1. Inform ation received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September  
November confirms that the pace of recovery in output and employment continues to 
be slow.  Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit.  
Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though less rapidly than earlier in the year, while inve stment in nonresidential structur es continues to be weak.  
Employers remain reluctant to add to payr olls.  Housing starts  continue to be 
depressed.  Longer-term inflation expectations have remained  stable, but measures of 
underlying inflation have continued to  trended lower  in recent quarters downward . 
 
2.
 Consisten
t with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate is elevated, and 
measures of underlying inflation are somewhat  low, relative to levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent, over th e longer run, with its dual mandate.  
Although the Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher le vels of resource 
utilization in a context of price stabilit y, progress toward its objectives has been  
remains  disappointingly  slow. 
 
3.
 To prom
ote a stronger pace of economic recove ry and to help ensure that inflation, 
over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee decided today to 
continue  expand ing its holdings of securities.  Moreover, in light of incoming 
information, the Committee now intends to increase its holdings of securities by a total of $800 billion—$200 billion mo re than announced last month—by 
purchasing longer-term Treasury securiti es at a pace of about $75 billion per 
month through the third quarter of 2011.  In addition,  the Committee will 
maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities 
holdings.  In addition, the Committee  intends to purchase a further $600 billion of 
longer -term Treasury securities by the end of  the second quarter of 2011, a pace of 
about $75 billion per month.   The Committee will regularly review the pace of its 
securities purchases and the overall size of the asset-purc hase program  in light of 
incoming  information  and will adjust the program as needed to best foster maximum 
employment and price stability. 
 
4.
 The Comm
ittee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to  currently  anticipate s that economic conditions, including 
low rates of resource utilization, subdue d inflation trends, and stable inflation 
expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels  for the federal funds rate 
for an extended period  at least through mid-2012.  
 
5.
 The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy t ools as necessary to  support the economic 
recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its 
mandate. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 15 of 46
    
DECEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September  
November confirms that the pace of recovery in output and employment continues to 
be slow.  Household spending is increasing gradually  at a moderate pace , but 
rem
ains constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing 
wealth, and tight credit.  Business spending on equipment and software is rising, 
though less rapidly than earli er in the year, while investment in nonresidential 
structures continues to be weak.  Employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls.  
Housing starts continue to be depressed.  Longer-term inflation expectations have 
remained stable, but measures of underlying inflation have continued to  trended 
lower in recent quarters  d ownward . 
 
  
 
 2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate is elevated, and 
measures of underlying inflation are somewh at low, relative to levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent, over th e longer run, with its dual mandate.  
Although the Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher le vels of resource 
utilization in a context of price stabilit y, progress toward its objectives has been 
disappointingly slow.  
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recove ry and to help ensure that inflation, 
over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee decided today to 
continue the  expandsion of  its s ecurities  holdings of securities  announced in 
November.  The Committee will maintain its ex isting policy of reinvesting principal 
paym
ents from its securities holdings.  In addition, the Committee intends  reaffirmed 
its intention  to purchase a further  $600 billion of longer-te rm Treasury securities by 
the end of th
e second quarter of 2011, a pace of about $75 billion per month.  The 
Committee will regularly review the pace of  its securities purchases and the overall 
size of the asset-purchase program in light of incoming information and will adjust the program as needed to best foster maximum employment and price stability. 
4. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds rate for an extended 
period. 
5. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy t ools as necessary to  support the economic 
recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its 
mandate.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 16 of 46
    
DECEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September  
November confirms indicates  that the pace of  recovery in out put and employment 
continues to be slow  is continuing .  Household Spending is  by households and 
businesses appears to be  increasing gradually,  at a moderate pace .  but remains 
constrained by high unemployment, modest  income growth, lower housing wealth, 
and tight credit.  Business spending on  equipment and software is rising has 
decelerated, though less rapidly than earlier in the year, while investment in 
nonresidentia l structures continues to be weak.   However,  employers remain reluctant 
to add to payrolls
. and housing starts  continue to be depressed.  Longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable, but meas ures of underlying inflation have trended 
lower in recent quarters. 
 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate is elevated, and 
measures of underlying inflation are somewh at low, relative to levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent, over th e longer run, with its dual mandate.  
Although the Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher le vels of resource 
utilization in a context of price stabilit y, progress toward its objectives has been 
disappoin tin
gly  slow. 
   
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recove ry and to help ensure that inflation, 
over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee decided today to 
continue  expand ing its holdings of securities.  However, in light of incoming 
information, the Committee now intends to increase its holdings of securities by a total of $400 billion—$200 billion le ss than announced last month—by 
purchasing longer-term Treasury securiti es at a pace of about $50 billion per 
month through the second quarter of 2011.  In addition,  the Committee will 
maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities 
holdings.  In addition, the Committee  intends to purchase a further $600 billion of 
longer -term Treasury securities  by the end of the second quarter of 2011, a pace of 
about $75 billion per month.   The Committee will regularly review the pace of its 
securities purchases and the overall size of the asset-purc hase program  in light of 
incoming information  and will adjust the program as needed to best foster maximum 
employment and price stability. 
 
4. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds rate for an extended 
period. 
 
5. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy t ools as necessary to  support the economic 
recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its 
mandate. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 17 of 46
    
DECEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE D 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September  
November
 confirms indicates  that the pace of  economic  recovery in output and 
employment continues to be slow  is proceeding.  Household  Spending by 
households and businesses  is increasing gradually,  at a moderate pace .  but 
remains constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing 
wealth, and tight credit.  Busine ss spending on equipment and software  is rising , 
though less rapidly than earli er in the year, while  investment in nonresidential 
structures continues to be weak.  Employers remain reluctant to add to  payrolls.  
Housing starts continues to be depressed.  Longer- term inflation expectations have 
remained stable, but  Although  measures of underlying inflation have trended lower 
in recent quarters , longer-term inflation expect ations have remained stable .  The 
Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability.  
 
2.   Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate is elevated, and 
measures of underlying inflation are somewh at low, relative to levels that the  
Committee judges to be consistent, over th e longer run, with its dual mandate.  
Although the Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher le vels of resource 
utilization in a context of price stabilit y, progress toward its objectives has been 
disappoin tingly slow . 
 
2. To promote a stronger pace of economic recove ry and to help ensure that inflation, 
over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate,   Based on this assessment of 
current and prospective economic conditions,  the Committee decided today to  
discontinue the asset-purchase program it announced in November  expand its 
holdings of securities .  For the time being,  the Committee will maintain its existing 
policy of reinvesting principal payments from  its securities holdings.  In addition, the 
Commit tee intends to purchase a further $600 billion of longer -term Treasury 
securities by the end of the second quarter of 2011, a pace of about $75 billion per month.  The Committee will regularly review the pace of its securities purchases and 
the overall siz e of the asset- purchase program in light of incoming information and 
will adjust the program as needed to be st foster maximum em ployment and price 
stability.  
 
3. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to  anticipate s that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation tr ends, and stable inflation expectations,  are 
likely to warrant exceptionally  low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended 
period some time .   
 
4. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy t ools as necessary to  support the economic 
recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its  
mandate  promote maximum employme nt and price stability. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 18 of 46
    
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
The Committee may see the outlook for the economic recovery and inflation as 
little changed, on balance, since the time of its last meeting.  Accordingly, the Committee 
may see the additional monetary policy accommodation announced in the November 
statement as still appropriate to promote progress toward its objectives of maximum 
employment and price stability.  In th at case, the Committee might choose an 
announcement along the lines of that  provided in Alternative B. 
Members may judge that a statement along th e lines of that issued in November, 
with a reaffirmation of the decision to purchase additional Treasury securities, would help both to anchor inflation expectations and to create c onditions for a stronger pace of 
recovery of output and employment.  Me mbers may view recent upward pressure on 
longer-term Treasury yields as reflecting in part an increase, among investors, in the 
perceived probability that the Committee will stop short of ex panding its securities 
holdings by $600 billion.  These members may be concerned that investors have now 
priced in a less accommodative monetary po licy over 2011 and 2012 than is consistent 
with the November statement and intermeeting economic and financial developments; in 
this case, the December statement may be seen as an opportunity to reinforce the original 
announcement and so help to secure the intend ed effect of the purchases on longer-term 
yields.  As the best means of achieving this result, policymakers may favor the release of 
a statement like Alternative B, which would convey the Committee’s judgment that the 
outlook has not changed enough to warrant a change in policy, and so could reduce 
market uncertainty about the Committee’s intentions.  
The Committee may view recent readings  on underlying inflation as indicating 
that it has continued to tr end downward.  Policymakers may, however, share the staff 
view that recent core PCE infl ation readings overstate the d ecline in trend inflation, and 
that measures of underlying inflation will shortly  return to levels near those observed in 
the first half of this year.  Alternatively, they may see the monetary policy implications of 
lower inflation as having been offset by a strengthening in the ou tlook for real activity, 
particularly in light of the fiscal agreement that was announ ced earlier this week.  Some 
members may be more concerned about the pos sible implications of recent readings on 
inflation or employment fo r the economic outlook, but may prefer to await clearer 
evidence of a pattern before increasing the intended level of pur chases above the $600 
billion total announced in November.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 19 of 46
    
Policymakers may likewise see little basis for reducing the intended total of 
additional asset purchases below $600 billion.  While noting that some aspects of real 
activity, such as household spending, have exhibited somewhat more strength than 
foreseen at the November meeting, members may judge that, on balance, the outlook has 
changed little since November.  In additi on, policymakers may j udge that the overall 
effect on the economic outlook of the recently an nounced fiscal agreement is likely to be 
modest and subject to consid erable uncertainty.  Policymakers may consequently choose 
to maintain the asset-purchase program on its previously announced course, at least for 
the time being. 
A statement along the lines of  Alternative B would probably not surprise m arket 
participants, but would likely serve to reduce uncertainty somewhat.  Responses from the 
Desk’s latest survey of primary dealers, c onducted prior to the announcement of the fiscal 
agreement, indicate that they expect the Committee to proceed w ith the $600 billion 
purchase program, as in Alternative B.1  In addition, respondents stated that they see the 
third quarter of 2012 as the most likely date  at which the Committee will begin raising 
the federal funds rate, consistent with Alternative B’s ma intenance of the “extended 
period” language.  On balance, asset prices  would likely be little changed following the 
announcement. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
The November statement indicated that the Committee would regularly review the 
pace and overall size of its asset-purchase pr ogram in light of incoming information and 
would adjust the program as needed to be st foster maximum employment and price 
stability.  Policymakers may conclude that developments in the economy and financial 
markets since the November meeting justify a modest further increase in the degree of 
policy accommodation.  If so, the Committee may wish to augment the asset-purchase 
program and, in addition, provide more expl icit forward guidance concerning the likely 
duration of the period of exceptionally low fede ral funds rates, as in Alternative A.  
Comm
ittee members may, like the staff, exp ect the economic recovery to remain 
quite gradual, even after taking into account the intende d $600 billion asset-purchase 
program announced in November and the recent fi scal initiative.  In the staff’s baseline 
                                                 
1 The survey also indicated that respondents expected that the program would eventually reach $850 
billion.  However, the Desk’s discussions with primary dealers after the fiscal agreement suggest that most 
respondents now anticipate that the program will cumulate to only $600 billion.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 20 of 46
    
projection, the unemployment rate remain s above 8 percent until late in 2012, and 
inflation remains below levels that the Comm ittee sees as consistent with its objectives 
even at the end of the projection period.  Members may view such outcomes as 
unacceptable.  Moreover, policymakers may be skeptical of the acceleration in economic 
activity that the staff has projected for ne xt year, and may place more weight on the 
“Weaker Recovery” scenario in the Tealbook.  The Committee also may be concerned 
about the implications for the r ecovery of the significant rise in longer-term interest rates 
over the intermeeting period, and may conclude that more substantial asset purchases are 
required to provide offsetting downwar d pressure on longer-term rates. 
Even if policymakers see the economic recovery as likely to continue and 
inf
lation as likely to return to mandate-consistent levels ove r time, some may be 
particularly concerned about the risks of  weaker outcomes and substantial further 
disinflation.  Members may perc eive a heightened risk that  the recent downward trend in 
inflation will continue, and may be concerned about the risks to the economic recovery that could arise from a further decline in in flation.  Alternatively, they may judge that 
developments in Europe have increased the downside risks to the economic outlook.  
Consequently, members may anticipate that a Committee announcement that goes beyond a reaffirmation of the November decisi on is needed to provide the economy with 
the degree of stimulus required to promot e maximum employment and price stability.  
Policymakers may therefore see merit in the a nnouncement of an increase in the purchase 
program to $800 billion, as in Alternative A.  
The Committee may view the risks associat ed with a modest further expansion of 
the balance sheet to be acceptably low when  compared to the an ticipated benefits.  
Indeed, small-scale operations of two short- term reserve-management tools, the Term 
Deposit Facility and reverse repurchase agreements with an expanded set of counterparties, have been conducted su ccessfully.  These operations may give 
policymakers confidence that even with a further expansion of the Federal Reserve’s 
balance sheet and the associated  increase in reserve balances, the Federal Reserve will be 
able to exit smoothly from its extraord inarily accommodative policy stance when 
appropriate. 
The Committee may also wish to communicat e more explicitly its expectation for 
the path of the federal funds rate by stating that  it anticipates that the current level of the 
target rate will remain in place “at least th rough mid-2012.”  Members may feel that such 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 21 of 46
    
an explicit indication would cl arify the FOMC’s intentions regarding future adjustments 
to the federal funds rate and could help counter what the Committee may view as an 
undesirable shift in investors’ expectati ons, in the direction of less monetary 
accommodation, since the November meeting.    
Coming just one meeting after the Committee launched its new purchase program 
with an in
tended size of $600 billion, an announcement in December of an expansion of 
the program to $800 billion would come as a significant surprise to market participants, 
especially in view of the generally modest changes to the outlook since November.  
Longer-term yields would probably fall noticea bly, stock prices would likely move up, 
and the foreign exchange value of the dolla r would likely decline somewhat.  If the 
announcement led investors to anticipate that further expansion of the program was 
likely, the movement in asset prices could be  large.  The decline in longer-term nominal 
rates might be dampened to the extent that the policy decision led investors to mark up their inflation expectations. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Members may view the incoming informati on on real activity since the November 
meeting as having been somewhat better than expected.  They also may judge that the 
economic outlook has improved—in part due to  the recently announced fiscal package—
to a degree that justifies scaling back the additional policy accommodation announced by 
the Committee in November.  Policymakers may conclude that, consistent with the Committee’s statement that it would “regularly  review” the purchase program “in light of 
incoming information,” the total volume of purchases should now be lowered.  Members 
may consequently favor a statement in Decem ber that reduces the intended purchase total 
to $400 billion, as in Alternative C. 
The Committee may judge that incomi ng information over the intermeeting 
period confirmed a moderate acceleration in consumer spending.  Policymakers may 
regard the higher growth rate  of consumer spending that has emerged over the second 
half of the year as creating a more favorab le climate for firms’ investment and hiring 
decisions.  Consequently, the Committee may now  expect a stronger recovery than it did 
in November, perhaps along the lines of th e “Stronger Recovery ” scenario in the 
Tealbook.  In addition, members may interp ret recent low readings on underlying 
inflation as reflecting transitory factors and may see inflation as most likely to run a bit 
higher than in the staff projection.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 22 of 46
    
Policymakers may also view the recently announced fiscal measures as likely to 
exert a sizable positive effect on the overall  outlook for real activity and inflation.  
Consequently, they may see the fiscal announcement as strengthening the case for 
reducing the amount of accommodation that is being provided by monetary policy.   
As noted earlier, the Desk’s survey of Pri mary Dealers suggested that market 
participants expect the Committee to mainta in its new asset-purchase program at $600 
billion at the December meeting.  A statem ent along the lines of Alternative C would 
consequently come as a significant surprise to investors.  As a result, longer-term interest 
rates would rise, stock prices  would fall, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar 
would increase.  These effects would be rein forced to the extent that the adoption of 
Alternative C was seen as opening the door to further reductions in the Committee’s 
purchase total going forward.  The rise in l onger-term nominal rates might be dampened 
to the extent that the policy decision le d investors to mark down their inflation 
expectations. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE D 
Policymakers may view the incoming data as largely conforming to their 
expectations that the economic recovery is continuing and that it will strengthen 
gradually over time.  In addition, policyma kers may judge that concerns about the 
potential connection between sustained peri ods of accommodative policy and subsequent 
periods of financial instability call for a rea ssessment of the costs and benefits of the 
asset-purchase program.  In light of this reassessment, the Committee might issue a 
statement such as that in Alternative D, under which it would immediately discontinue 
the $600 billion purchase program announced in November, and might also indicate that 
it was likely to undertake other moves towa rd a less accommodative stance of policy in 
the near future. 
If policymakers believe that the economy is likely to accelerate next year, they 
may worry that the current size of the Fe deral Reserve’s balan ce sheet could make it 
difficult to tighten policy as quickly as may be  required to avoid an increase in inflation 
as the recovery strengthens, especially if th e size of the balance sheet itself directly 
affects inflation expectations.  Policymake rs may feel that co ntinuing to expand the 
balance sheet, in the manner indicated by the November announcement, would intensify 
these difficulties. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 23 of 46
    
Even if policymakers are concerned about  the high level of unemployment, they 
may judge that a good deal of cu rrent joblessness refl ects structural misallocations in the 
economy and cannot be effectively addresse d by monetary policy.  Policymakers may 
also discount recent low inflation outcomes if they believe that accommodative policy 
measures taken prior to the November meeti ng have yet to make themselves felt in the 
behavior of aggregate spending a nd inflation but will soon start to have an impact.       
Members may believe that th e current statem ent language  could lead to a buildup 
of macroeconomic or financial imbalances.  For example, inflation expectations could 
become unmoored, leading to a persistent a nd costly increase in actual inflation, or 
investors, in an effort to  obtain higher yields, could ta ke on risks that they do not 
understand, putting financial stability at risk as the economy recovers  and interest rates 
rise.  Reflecting such concerns, the language in Alternative D would position the Committee to begin removing policy accommoda tion before long.  The target for the 
federal funds rate would be maintained under this alternative, but the forward guidance 
would indicate that economic c onditions warrant “low levels” of  the federal funds rate for 
“some time,” instead of the “exceptionally lo w levels” for an “extended period” indicated 
in the November statement.  The Committee woul d also state that its policy of reinvesting 
the proceeds from principal repayments on its current holdings of securities would be 
maintained only for “the time being,” implying that the Committee might well discontinue this policy before long. 
The announcement of Alternative D would completely surprise market 
participants.  As noted above, investors anti cipate no change in the new asset-purchase 
program at this meeting.  Consequently, an  indication that the Federal Reserve was 
instead discontinuing this program and was poised to remove other aspects of policy 
accommodation would likely lead investors to re-examine their expectations both for the path of the funds rate and for the Federal Re serve’s portfolio.  The result would likely be 
a marked rise in interest rates at all horizons.  The foreign exchange value of the dollar 
would likely increase, and equity markets woul d sell off sharply.  The rise in longer-term 
rates could be dampened to the extent that  the tighter financial conditions prompted a 
decline in inflation expectations. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 24 of 46
    
LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE 
The staff has prepared four scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy alternatives A, B, C, and D.  Projections under each scenario are 
based on assumptions about each component of  the balance sheet.  Details of these 
assumptions as well as projections for each major component of the balance sheet can be 
found in Explanatory Note C.  
 
 
 
Under Alter
native B, the FOMC conti nues the expansion of its holdings of 
longer-term securities by $600 billion (at an average pace of about $75 billion per month) 
by the end of the second quarter of 2011, as a nnounced at the Novemb er FOMC meeting.  
The proceeds from principal repayments from Treasury securities and agency securities 
continue to be reinvested into Treasury s ecurities.  Under these assumptions, the balance 
sheet peaks at about $2.9 tr illion in 2011.  Over 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, the 
balance sheet declines gradually as the cr edit extended through TA LF and the Maiden 
Lanes is repaid.  The target federal funds ra te increases in the fi rst quarter of 2013, and 
immediately thereafter all maturing securities and prepayments of securities are allowed 
to roll off the portfolio.  Fina lly, six months after the assume d rise in the target federal 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 25 of 46
    
funds rate, remaining holdings of agency MB S and agency debt securities begin to be 
sold at a rate that would redu ce the amount of these securities  in the portfolio to zero in 
five years, by the end of the third quarter of 2018.2, 3 
After reserve balances reach the as sumed $25 billion floor and the U.S. 
Treasury’s supplementary financing account  has been wound down, the balance sheet 
begins to expand as increases in holdings of Treasury securities match the growth of 
Federal Reserve capital and notes in circulat ion.  The balance sheet reaches a size of 
about $1.8 trillion by the end of 2020.4  
The other alternatives have different a ssumptions about the size of longer-term 
securities holdings, and the c ontours of projected total asse ts reflect these assumptions.5  
Under Alternative A, the Federal Reserve purchases $200 billion more of longer-term 
Treasury securities than under Alternative B, with these purchases ending by the end of 
the third quarter of 2011.   With these additional purchase s, the balance sheet peaks at 
$3.1 trillion.  Under Alternativ e C, the purchases are reduc ed to $400 billion, ending by 
the second quarter of 2011, and the balan ce sheet peaks at $2.7 trillion.  Under 
Alternative D, asset purchases  are discontinued in December and the balance sheet peaks 
this year; the reinvestment of principal repayments from Treasury securities and agency 
securities, however, continues. 
Relative to the November Tealbook, total asse ts in Alternative B are projected to 
be slightly higher than in the last Tealbook from the fourth quarter of 2012 through early 
2016 primarily reflecting the late r liftoff date for the federa l funds rate.  Correspondingly, 
on the liability side of the balance sheet, reserv e balances are slightly higher than in the 
previous Tealbook.  With this path for reserve balances, the U.S. Treasury’s 
supplementary financing account is not run down to zero until June 2016.  After 
                                                 
2 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the volume of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five year period is minimal. 
3 Under all of the scenarios presented, the tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurchase 
agreements and the Term Deposit Facility) are not used.  If these tools were needed, it would represent a 
shift in the composition of Federal Reserve liabilities, but  not an overall change in the size of the balance 
sheet. 
4 The composition of Federal Reserve assets in these projections differs notably at times from historical 
patterns.  Prior to August 2007, U.S. Treasury secu rities made up 100 percent of the domestic securities 
portfolio.  By contrast, under the Alternative B, Treas ury securities are projected to account for only around 
47 percent of the domestic securities portfolio at the end of 2010.  By the end of 2020, Treas ury securities 
account for 100 percent of the domestic se curities portfolio under all scenarios. 
5 All scenarios assume the same path for the federal funds rate. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 26 of 46
    
expanding in 2011, the monetary base is projec ted to contract thr ough 2015 reflecting the 
decline in reserve balances. 
 Memo:
November 
Alternative B
Apr-10 -37.6 -37.6 -37.6 -37.6 -37.6
May-10 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0
Jun-10 -5.8 -5.8 -5.8 -5.8 -5.8
Jul -10 -2.2 -2.2 -2.2 -2.2 -2.2
Aug-10 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4
Sep-10 -10.1 -10.1 -10.1 -10.1 -10.1
Oct-10 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8
Nov-10 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6
Dec-10 15.4 15.4 13.5 5.6 27.6
Jan-11 24.1 24.1 15.2 -9.5 18.4
Feb-11 66.7 66.7 53.1 20.6 41.6
Mar-11 57.9 57.9 45.5 14.7 57.0
2010 Q2 -10.4 -10.4 -10.4 -10.4 -10.4
2010 Q3 -3.9 -3.9 -3.9 -3.9 -3.9
2010 Q4 -3.1 -3.1 -3.3 -4.2 9.52011 Q1 34.3 34.3 26.1 4.8 31.7
2009 41.5 41.5 41.5 41.5 41.52010 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 -1.2 2.22011 30.9 41.0 20.8 2.9 28.7
2012 -1.2 -1.1 -1.3 -1.0 -2.6
2013 -12.2 -11.6 -12.4 -11.6 -19.02014 -19.6 -19.3 -20.0 -20.8 -18.1
2015 -24.7 -24.1 -24.1 -11.5 -23.7
Note: Not seasonally adjusted.Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Percent, annual rate
Quarterly
Annual - Q4 to Q4 MonthlyAlternative D Date Alternative B Alternative A Alternative C
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 27 of 46
    
DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
 Domestic nonfinancial debt is projected to expand at a moderate annual rate of 
about 4¼ percent in the fourth quarter of th is year, driven almost entirely by a rapid 
expansion in federal government debt with private nonfinancial de bt about unchanged.  
We expect domestic nonfinancial debt to grow  at an annual rate of about 5 percent in 
2011 and 2012, as federal debt continues to expand and private nonfinancial debt 
increases at a very modest pace.  Despite lo w mortgage rates, home mortgage debt is 
anticipated to continue c ontracting in 2011 and to be flat in 2012, reflecting ongoing 
weakness in housing demand, tight lending st andards that ease only gradually, and 
continued charge-offs of existing loans.  Cons umer credit is forecasted to expand over the 
next two years, lifted by increases in spendi ng on consumer durables.  We expect growth 
in nonfinancial business debt to rise gra dually to 3¾ percent in 2012, reflecting a pickup 
in capital expenditures ov er the forecast period. 
Commercial bank credit is expected to remain  about flat in the current quarter, as 
a continued decline in loans is offset by r obust growth in banks’ securities holdings.  
Bank credit is projected to ri se 1¾ percent in 2011 and 3 percent in 2012, as modest loan 
growth resumes and securities expand at a mo derate rate.  The runoff in commercial and 
industrial loans appears to have  ebbed significantly, but growth  in this loan category is 
projected to increase only gradually over the forecast period.  We expect commercial real 
estate loans to keep cont racting over 2011 and 2012, as weak fundamentals continue to 
depress activity in that market.  Banks’ hol dings of closed-end mo rtgages—loans secured 
by 1-4 family residential properties—have grown steadily in recent months, offsetting 
declines in revolving home equity  lines of credit, and we anti cipate that residential real 
estate loans on banks’ books in total will con tinue to edge up over the forecast horizon as 
activity in housing markets improves.  Consum er loans are forecasted to contract this 
quarter and then increase modestly in 2011 and 2012 as household spending on consumer 
durables gradually picks up.  Banks’ securities  holdings are projected to expand at a 
moderate pace over the forecast period as loan demand improves. 
M2 is projected to slow in 2011 and then  pick up a bit in 2012, but remain at a 
pace below that of nominal GDP over the for ecast period.  The forecast assumes that, as 
the economic recovery gains strength, househol ds reallocate their portfolios away from 
safe and liquid M2 assets toward higher-y ielding investments through early 2012.  Liquid 
deposits are forecasted to decelerate from th eir robust growth in 2009, but continue to 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 28 of 46
    
expand at a solid pace over the forecast peri od.  We expect small time deposits and retail 
money market mutual funds to continue to contract through most of  the projection period, 
though the rate of contraction diminishes ove r time.  Currency is anticipated to expand 
moderately as recent robust demand for currency from abroad wanes.  
Growth Rates for M2
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
          
  Monthly Growth Rates    Tealbook Forecast*    
  Apr-10    -4.1   
  May-10    11.6   
  Jun-10    4.4   
  Jul-10    -0.2   
  Aug-10    6.4   
  Sep-10    8.3   
  Oct-10    8.0   
  Nov-10    5.1   
  Dec-10    1.6   
  Jan-11    1.3   
  Feb-11    1.2   
  Mar-11    1.1   
          
  Quarterly Growth Rates       
  2010 Q2    1.8   
  2010 Q3    4.6   
  2010 Q4    6.6   
  2011 Q1    1.8   
          
  Annual Growth Rates       
  2009    5.1   
  2010    3.2   
  2011    1.4   
  2012    5.1   
* This forecast is consistent with nomina l GDP and interest rates in the Tealbook 
forecast. Actual data through November 2010; projec tions thereafter.   
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 29 of 46
    
DIRECTIVE  
The November directive appears below.  Drafts for a December directive that 
correspond to each of the four policy alternat ives appear on subsequent pages.  The 
directive for Alternative B woul d instruct the Desk to contin ue carrying out the increase 
in the SOMA’s securities holdings of $600 billion by the end of June 2011 through 
purchases of longer-term Treasury securities while also continuing the current policy of 
reinvesting principal payments on SOMA secu rities.  The directive for Alternative A 
would increase the SOMA’s securities hold ings by $800 billion by the end of September 
2011 through the purchase of longer-term Tr easury securities, while the corresponding 
increase under the Alternativ e C directive is a total of $400 billion by the end of June 
2011.  The directives for both Alternatives A a nd C continue the current portfolio policy 
of reinvesting principal payments.  The dire ctive for Alternative D would instruct the 
Desk to maintain the SOMA’s total holdings  of securities at approximately the current 
level by continuing to reinvest  payments of principal from agency debt and MBS in 
longer-term Treasury securities.  
 
November 2010 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute purchases of longer-term Treasury secu rities by the end of June 2011 in order to 
increase the total face value of domestic securities held in the System Open Market 
Account to approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Co mmittee also directs the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 30 of 46
    
December 2010 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of June 2011  in order to 
increase the total face value of dom
estic securities held in the System Open Market 
Account to approximately $2.6  $2.8 trillion by the end of September 2011 .  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to reinvest principal payments from agency debt and 
agency mortgage-backed securiti es in longer-term Treasury se curities.  The System Open 
Market Account Manager and the Secretar y will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System’s  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee’s obj ectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 31 of 46
    
December 2010 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of June 2011  in order to 
increase the total face value of domestic securities held in the System Open Market 
Account to approximately $2.6 trillion by the end of June 2011 .  The Committee also 
directs the Desk to reinvest principal payments from agency  debt and agency mortgage-
backed securities in longer-term Treasury securities.  The System Open Market Account 
Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments 
regarding the System’s balance sheet that co uld affect the attainment over time of the 
Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 32 of 46
    
December 2010 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute purchases of longer-term Treas ury securities by the end of June 2011  in order to 
increase the total face value of domestic securities held in the System Open Market 
Account to approximately $2.6  $2.4 trillion by the end of June 2011 .  The Committee 
also directs the Desk to reinvest principa l payments from agency debt and agency 
mortgage-backed securities in longer-term Treas ury securities.  The System Open Market 
Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing 
developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect the attainment over 
time of the Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and price stability. 
 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 33 of 46
    
December 2010 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative D 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute purchases of longer -term Treasury securities by th e end of June 2011 in order to 
increase  maintain  the total face value of domestic s ecurities held in the System Open 
Market Account to  at approximately $2.6  $2.1 trillion. T he Committee also directs the 
Desk to  by reinvest ing principal payments from agen cy debt and agency mortgage-
backed securities in longer-term Treasury securities.  The System Open Market Account 
Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments 
regarding the System’s balance sheet that co uld affect the attainment over time of the 
Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and price stability. 
 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 34 of 46
 
Explanatory Notes 
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The equilibrium real rate is the real federa l funds rate that, if maintained, would be 
projected to return output to its potential level over time.  The short-run equilibrium rate is 
defined as the rate that would close the output  gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding 
model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal 
funds rate projected to keep output at poten tial in seven years, under the assumption that 
monetary policy acts to bring actual and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps 
them equal thereafter.  The TIPS-based factor model measure provides an estimate of market 
expectations for the real federal funds rate seven years ahead.  
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy—
depend on data for major spending categories, price and wages, and the federal funds rate as well as the model’ s structure and estimate of the output 
gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the extended baseline. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 35 of 46
    
  Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the nominal 
rate and realized inflation, where the nominal ra te is measured as the quarterly average of the 
observed federal funds rate, and r ealized inflation is given by the log difference between the core 
PCE price index and its lagged value four quarter s earlier.  If the upcoming FOMC meeting falls 
early in the quarter, the lagged inflation measure e nds in the last quarter.  For the current quarter, 
the nominal rate is specified as the target fede ral funds rate on the Tealbook publication date.   
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on the proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimated real federal funds  rates based on lagged core PCE inflation, the 
definition used in the Equilibrium Real Federa l Funds Rate chart; lagged four-quarter headline 
PCE inflation; and projected four-quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  
For each estimate of the real rate, the table also provides the Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based 
measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate a nd the average actual real federal funds rate over 
the next twelve quarters. 
Proxy used for  
expected infl
ation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current value) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Average actual 
real funds rate 
(twelve-quarter 
average) 
Lagged core inflation -0.8 -2.0 -0.6
Lagged headline 
inflation -1.1 -2.1 -0.7
Projected headline inflation -1.0 -2.1 -0.7
 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 36 of 46
    
  B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS   
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧  and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
one quarter ahead (  כݕ
௧െ ݕ ௧ and ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ െ כݕ
௧ାଵ|௧), and the three-quarter-ahead forecast of annual 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ െ Δସכݕ
௧ାଷ|௧), and denotes an assumed value of 
polic
ymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  Th e outcome-based and forecast-bas ed rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the samp le 1988:1-2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion. Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point  increments during the first three quarters of 
1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003).    
Outcome-based rule 
 
Forecast-based rule 
 
Taylor (1993) rule  
Taylor (1999) rule  
First-difference rule   
 ݅௧ൌ1.20݅ ௧ିଵെ0.39݅ ௧ିଶ൅0.19ሾ1.17 ൅1.73ߨ ௧ 
         ൅ 3.66 ሺݕെכݕሻെ2.72 ሺݕ െכݕ
௧ ௧ ௧ିଵ ௧ିଵሻሿ
݅௧ൌ1.18݅ ௧ିଵെ0.38݅ ௧ିଶ൅0.20ሾ0.98 ൅1.72ߨ ௧ାଶ|௧  
         ൅ 2.29൫כݕ
௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ ൯െ1.37 ሺݕ௧ିଵെכݕ
௧ିଵሻሿ
݅ ൌ 2൅ߨ ൅0.5ሺߨെככߨ 
௧ ௧ ௧ ሻ൅0.5ሺݕ௧െݕ௧ሻ
݅௧ൌ2൅ߨ ௧൅0.5ሺככߨ 
௧െߨ ሻ൅ሺݕ௧െݕ௧ሻ
݅௧ൌ݅ ௧ିଵ൅0.5൫כߨ ସ ସכ
௧ାଷ|௧ െߨ ൯൅0.5ሺݕ߂ ௧ାଷ|௧ െ ݕ߂ ௧ାଷ|௧ ሻ
FRB/US  MODEL SIMULATIONS  
Prescriptions from the two empirical rules are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969-2008. 
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL MARKETS   
The expected funds rate path is based on Eurodollar quotes and implied three-month 
forward rates from swaps, and the confidence interv als for this path are constructed using prices 
of interest rate caps.  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 37 of 46
    
  NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap. Because the first-difference rule involves the lagged funds rate, the value labeled “Previous 
Tealbook” for the current quarter is computed usi ng the actual value of the lagged funds rate, and 
the one-quarter-ahead prescriptions are based on this rule’s prescription for the current quarter.  
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214. 
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341. 
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 38 of 46
    
  C. Long-run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section entitled “Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are constr ucted on a monthly frequency from December 
2010 to December 2020.  The few balance sheet ite ms that are not discussed below are assumed 
to be constant over the projection period at the level observed on November 30, 2010.  The 
projections for all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the 
tables that follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate begins to increase in the first 
quarter of 2013.  The balance sheet projections assu me that no use of short-term draining tools is 
necessary to achieve the projected path for the federal funds rate. 
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency MBS, and Agency Debt Securities 
 The assumptions under Alternative B are  
o Purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities between November 
2010 and July 2011, at an average pace of $75 billion per month.1   
o Principal payments from Treasury securities continue to be reinvested until the 
target federal funds rate lifts off. 
o Principal payments from agency MBS and agency debt securities are reinvested 
in longer-term Treasury securities until the target federal funds rate increases. 2   
o All purchases of Treasury securities are executed assuming a maturity distribution similar to that currently used by the Desk.
3 
o With the increase in the target federal funds rate, all securities are allowed to roll off the portfolio as they mature or prepay. 
                                                 
1 Based on the actual operations to date and a pace of $75 billion per month, a few purchases may 
settle in July 2011. 
2 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflect interest rates as of December 3, 2010.   
3 Because current and expected near-term intere st rates are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at  which these securities ar e purchased will exceed the 
face value.  Reserve balances will in crease by the market value, whereas securities holdings as reported in 
the H.4.1 release will increase by the face value.  The premiums are recorded in “other assets.” 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 39 of 46
    
  o The Federal Reserve will begin to sell agency MBS and agency debt securities 
six months after the assumed increase in the target federal funds rate.  The holdings of agency securities are reduced over five years and reach zero by the 
end of the third quarter of 2018.   
o For agency 
 MBS, the rate of prepayment  is based on estimates of housing market 
factors from one of the program’s investment managers and interest rate 
projections from the Tealbook.  The projected rate of prepayment is sensitive to 
these underlying assumptions. 
 Under Alternative A, a total of $800 billion in longer-term Treasury securities is 
purchased by essentially the end of the third quarter of 2011.  All other assumptions 
follow Alternative B.  
 Under Alternative C, a total of $400 billion in longer-term Treasury securities is 
purchased by the end of the second quarter of 2011.  All other assumptions follow 
Alternative B. 
 Under Alternative D, longer-term Treasury securities purchases are discontinued after the 
December 2010 FOMC meeting, although  the proceeds from maturing Treasury 
securities and the principal payments of ag ency MBS and agency debt securities are 
reinvested in Treasury securities until the target  federal funds rate lifts off.  All other 
assumptions follow Alternative B.  
 In all four scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  To maintain reserve balances at this level, firs t the U.S. Treasury’s supplementary financing 
account (SFA) is reduced.  After the SFA dec lines to zero, Treasury bills are purchased.  
Purchases of bills continue until these secu rities comprise one-third of the Federal 
Reserve’s total Treasury securities holdings–about the average level in the period prior to 
the crisis.  Once this level is reached, the Federal Reserve buys notes and bonds in addition to bills to maintain an approximate composition of the portfolio of one-third bills 
and two-thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
 Loans through the Term Asset -Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) peaked at $48 
billion in December 2009.  Credit extended thro ugh this facility declines to zero by the 
end of 2014, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
 The assets held by TALF LLC increase to $1.0 billion by the end of 2011 and remain at 
this level through 2014 before declining to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF 
LLC consist of investments of commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. 
Treasury’s initial funding.  In this proj ection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-
backed securities received by the Federal R eserve Bank of New York in connection with 
a decision of a borrower to not repay a TALF loan.  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 40 of 46
    
   Credit extended to AIG, the sum of the Fede ral Reserve Bank of New York’s extension 
of revolving credit and its preferred interest s in AIA Aurora LLC and ALICO Holdings 
LLC, declines to zero by November 2013. 
 The assets held by  Maiden Lane LLC, Maid en Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 
are sold over time and reach a minimal level by the end of 2014.  
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the end of 2012.  From 2013 to  the end of the projection period, Federal 
Reserve notes in circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as projected in the 
extended Tealbook forecast. 
 The U.S. Treasury’s general account (TGA) follows the staff forecast for end-of-month 
U.S. Treasury operating cash balances through June 2011.4  At that point, the TGA 
slowly drops back to its historical target level of $5 billion by the end of 2011 as it is assumed that the Treasury will have implemen ted a new cash management system that 
allows it to invest funds in excess of $5 billion.  The TGA remains constant at $5 billion 
over the remainder of the forecast period. 
 Balances in the SFA remain at their current le vel until the SFA is reduced to ensure that 
the level of reserve balances  does not fall below $25 billion.
 5 
 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
 In general, increases in the level of assets of the Federal Reserve generate higher levels of 
reserve balances.  Increases in the levels of  other liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or the Treasury’s general account, like increases in the level of 
Reserve Bank capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 billion, purchases of 
Treasury securities are assumed in order to ma intain that level of reserve balances. 
  
                                                 
4 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of both 
the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Tr easury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is a good proxy 
for the level of TGA balances. 
5 With debt subject to limit moving closer to the debt ceiling, Treasury may drain the SFA in coming 
months.  For this Tealbook, however, we maintain the SFA at $200 billion in the near term. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 41 of 46
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
  End-of-Year
Nov 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,342 2,403 2,835 2,077 1,455 1,623 1,816
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 26 27 9 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 26 27 9 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 115 96 32 3 2 0 0
C r e d i t  e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 4 8 4 330000
67 53 29 3 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,081 2,156 2,640 1,954 1,360 1,542 1,742
U.S. Treasury securities 911 1,016 1,923 1,473 1,137 1,542 1,742Agency debt securities 148 147 77 39 16 0 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,023 992 640 443 207 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0Total other assets 115 118 148 111 86 74 67
Total liabilities
2,285 2,344 2,757 1,974 1,319 1,442 1,577
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 937 941 1,000 1,088 1,209 1,333 1,468
Reverse repurchase agreements 57 54 59 59 59 59 59
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,247 1,302 1,681 810 35 35 35  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 963 995 1,471 600 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 7 9 1 0 055555
  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 200 0 0 0
 O t h e r  b a l a n c e s 3255555
Total capital
57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative B
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 42 of 46
    
   
 
  
  End-of-Year
Nov 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,342 2,403 3,036 2,232 1,455 1,623 1,816
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 26 27 9 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 26 27 9 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 115 96 32 3 2 0 0
C r e d i t  e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 4 8 4 330000
67 53 29 3 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,081 2,156 2,840 2,110 1,360 1,542 1,742
U.S. Treasury securities 911 1,016 2,123 1,628 1,137 1,542 1,742Agency debt securities 148 147 77 39 16 0 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,023 992 640 443 207 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0Total other assets 115 118 148 111 86 74 67
Total liabilities
2,285 2,344 2,958 2,129 1,319 1,442 1,577
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 937 941 1,000 1,088 1,209 1,333 1,468
Reverse repurchase agreements 57 54 59 59 59 59 59
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,247 1,302 1,882 965 35 35 35  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 963 995 1,672 755 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 7 9 1 0 055555
  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 200 0 0 0
 O t h e r  b a l a n c e s 3255555
Total capital
57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 43 of 46
    
   
 
   End-of-Year
Nov 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,342 2,397 2,636 1,925 1,455 1,623 1,816
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 26 27 9 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 26 27 9 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 115 96 32 3 2 0 0
C r e d i t  e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 4 8 4 330000
67 53 29 3 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,081 2,150 2,440 1,802 1,360 1,542 1,742
U.S. Treasury securities 911 1,010 1,723 1,321 1,137 1,542 1,742Agency debt securities 148 147 77 39 16 0 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,023 992 640 443 207 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0Total other assets 115 118 148 111 86 74 67
Total liabilities
2,285 2,338 2,558 1,822 1,319 1,442 1,577
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 937 941 1,000 1,088 1,209 1,333 1,468
Reverse repurchase agreements 57 54 59 59 59 59 59
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,247 1,296 1,482 658 35 35 35  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 963 989 1,272 448 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 7 9 1 0 055555
  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 200 0 0 0
O t h e r  b a l a n c e s 3255555
Total capital
57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections --Alternative C
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 44 of 46
    
  Federal Reserve Balance Sheet 
 
 
 
 
  
 End-of-Year
Nov 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,342 2,371 2,289 1,677 1,455 1,622 1,815
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 26 27 9 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 26 27 9 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 115 96 32 3 2 0 0
C r e d i t  e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 4 8 4 330000
67 53 29 3 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,081 2,125 2,125 1,560 1,372 1,554 1,754
U.S. Treasury securities 911 985 1,408 1,079 1,149 1,554 1,754
Agency debt securities 148 147 77 39 16 0 0
Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,023 992 640 443 207 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 115 118 116 106 74 61 55
Total liabilities 2,285 2,312 2,211 1,574 1,318 1,442 1,577
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 937 941 1,000 1,088 1,209 1,333 1,468
Reverse repurchase agreements 57 54 59 59 59 59 59
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,247 1,270 1,135 411 35 35 35
  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 963 963 925 201 25 25 25
  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 7 9 1 0 055555
  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 200 0 0 0
O t h e r  b a l a n c e s 3255555
Total capital 57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative D
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 45 of 46
(This page is intentionally blank.)
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 9, 2010
Page 46 of 46