 Prefatory Note 
 
 
T
he attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable p rovisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.  
Content last modified 02/03 /2017.   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 


Authorized for Public ReleaseClass I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 


Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
March 10, 2011 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

 (This page is intentionally blank.) 
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Strategies 
Most of the staff’s estimates of short-run r*—the real federal f unds rate that, if 
maintained, would return output to its potentia l in twelve quarters—ro se slightly over the 
intermeeting period but remain low by historical  standards and also be low the actual real  
federal funds rate.  In most cases, the increas e reflects a modest narrowing in the staff’s 
projection of the output gap.  For example, as shown in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate,” the short-run r* that is estimated using the FRB/US model 
conditioned on the staff outlook and estimat es of slack (the “Tealbook-consistent” 
measure) has increased 10 basis points.   The Tealbook-consistent estimate of r* generated 
by the EDO model has shifted up by a gr eater amount—50 basis points—because the 
staff’s projection of the output  gap is narrower despite a shift up in the assumed longer-
run path for the real federal f unds rate, which the m odel interprets as an indication that the 
equilibrium federal funds rate has in creased.  The estimates of short-run r* generated by 
the single-equation model and the small struct ural model, and the estimates based on the 
EDO model using that model’s own projections  and estimates of slack, all rose by 20 to 
30 basis points.1  By contrast, the estimate of short-run r * generated by the FRB/US 
model using its own projections has declined by 30 basis points, reflecting a widening in 
the FRB/US model’s output gap estimate.2    
In addition to ma
rking down its estimates  of slack in labor and product markets, 
the staff has revised up modestly its projecti on for inflation over the next two years.  
Consequently, both elements of the dual mandate now point to somewhat less need for 
monetary stimulus.  This outcome is re flected in the exhibit “Constrained vs. 
Unconstrained Monetary Policy,” which displa ys the policy prescriptions arising from  
optimal control simulations of the FRB/US model using the extended staff baseline 
projection.3  In these simulations, policymakers are assumed to place equal weight on 
1 The EDO model has undergone changes in sp ecification and estimation since the January 
Tealbook.  To facilitate comparis on with current Tealbook estimates, both “Previous Tealbook” r * estimates 
using the EDO model reported in the table refer to the r* estimates computed using the new specification of 
the EDO model with the data available at the time of the January Tealbook. 
2 The FRB/US model’s own estimate of the output gap has widened, in contrast to the narrowing in 
the staff’s estimate of the gap, because the FRB/US estimates of potential output have responded less to the 
recent reductions in unemployment and the pa rticipation rate than the staff estimates . 
3The staff’s baseline forecast incorp orates the effects of the Fede ral Reserve’s large-scale asset 
purchases as announced in November, and these effects ar e held at their baseline levels in the optimal policy 
simulations. 
Strategies  
                                                 
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 1 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
0-8-6-4-202468 
 
   
  
   
   
   
( (
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
( (
   
( (
   
  
   
(  
   
 
   
(
   
  
   Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US) Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate 
Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals Percent 
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation 
Range of four model-based estimates 
70 Percent confidence interval 
90 Percent confidence interval 8
 
6
 4
 2
 0
 
-2
 -4
 -6
 -8
 -10
 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
 
Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures 
Current Tealbook Previous Tealbook 
Short-Run Measures
 Single-equation model -1.4 -1.6
 Small structural model -1.2 -1.5
 EDO model 0.7 0.4
 FRB/US model -2.4 -2.1
 Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval -3.0 to 0.8
 90 percent confidence interval -3.9 to 2.0
 Tealbook-consistent measures
 EDO model -0.3 -0.8
 FRB/US model -1.4 -1.5
 
Medium-Run Measures
 Single-equation model 1.1 1.1
 Small structural model 1.2 1.4
 Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval 0.2 to 2.0
 90 percent confidence interval -0.4 to 2.7
 TIPS-based factor model 2.0 2.0 
Memo
 Actual real federal funds rate -0.7 -0.7 
Note: Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals. The actual real federal funds rate shown is based on lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation expectations.
For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A. Since January, the EDO model has been
re-specified and re-estimated. EDO estimates for the "Previous Tealbook" have been computed from the revised model,
using the data available at the time of the January Tealbook. -1 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 2 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
-6-4-202468  
-8-6-4-2024  
34567891011  
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0  Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy 
(2 Percent Inflation Goal) 
Nominal Federal Funds Rate 
Percent
 
8
 
Current Tealbook: Constrained 
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained Previous Tealbook: Unconstrained 
6
 
4
 
2
 0 
-2 -4 
-6 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 
Civilian Unemployment Rate 
Percent
 
11
 
10
 
9
 8
 
7
 
6
 5
 4
 
3
 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 Real Federal Funds Rate 
Percent
 
4
 
2
 
0 
-2 
-4 
-6 
-8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 
Core PCE Inflation 
Four-quarter average Percent 
3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
0.5 
0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 3 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
keeping core PCE inflation clos e to 2 percent, on keeping th e unemployment rate close to 
the effective NAIRU, and on minimizing changes in the federal funds rate.  As has been 
true for some time, the simulations indicate that the optimal path of policy is affected 
significantly by the lower-bound constraint on the nominal funds rate.  With this 
constraint imposed, the funds rate  does not begin to rise appreciably until the third quarter 
of 2013, the unemployment rate remains above th e staff estimate of the effective NAIRU 
until the second quarter of 2014, and inflation st ays below its target rate until the first 
quarter of 2015 (black solid lines).4  Reflecting the revisions to the staff forecast, the 
constrained optimal funds rate path now de parts from the effective lower bound somewhat 
earlier than in the January Tealbook, which did not call for increases in the funds rate until 
mid-2014.  If the nominal funds rate could fall below zero, optimal policy would see the 
nominal funds rate decline to around minus  1.5 percent in the second quarter of 2012, 
before rising back up to positive levels by th e third quarter of 2013 (blue dashed line), 
thereby yielding somewhat more favorable macroeconomic conditions than under the 
constrained simulations.  Relative to January, the unconstrained optimal path now calls for 
a less-pronounced reduction in the funds rate; as noted above , this upward shift partly 
reflects revisions to the staff outlook for real activity and inflation.  Furthermore, the 
unconstrained optimal path for the funds rate has changed because the simulations used in 
this Tealbook condition on the actu al value of the funds rate pr evailing in the first quarter 
of 2011.5  
Reflecting the staff’s revised projections  for inflation and the output gap, the 
estimated outcome-based policy rule implies a significant departure of the federal funds 
rate from its lower bound during the third quarter of 2012, a few months earlier than in the 
previous Tealbook.  As shown in the exhibit “The Policy Outlook in an Uncertain Environment,” the path associated with th is rule—which is employed in the staff’s 
baseline forecast—has the funds rate reaching 3.6 percent by the end of 2014.  As shown 
to the right, information from financial mark ets suggests that the e xpected path for the 
federal funds rate through 2012 has changed li ttle over the intermee ting period.  Market 
participants continue to expect the federal funds rate to move above the current target 
4The staff’s estimate of the effective NAIRU falls fr om 6½ percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 
6 percent by the first quarter of 2013, and then to 5¼ percent by the end of 2015, as the extended 
unemployment benefits expire and labor market functioning improves. 
5 The January Tealbook simulations, on the other hand , treated the funds rate in the first quarter of 
2011 as a choice variable rather than as observed data.  Because the assumed objective function penalizes 
interest-rate changes, the setting of the first-quarter fu nds rate to its observed positive value moderates the 
degree of policy stimulus prescribed by the unconstrained policy over the remainder of 2011. 
Strategies   
                                                 
   
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 4 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
The Policy Outlook in an Uncertain Environment 
2011 2012 2013 2014 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Percent 
Note: In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is 
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. For rules which have the lagged policy rate as a right-hand-side variable, the lines denoted "Previous Tealbook Outlook" report rule prescriptions based 
on the previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, but jumping off from the average value for the policy rate thus far in the quarter. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule 
Note: As in the January Tealbook, the staff baseline projection for the federal funds rate is based on the outcome-
based policy rule. Accordingly, the top-left panel does not report a separate series for the staff’s projected funds rate. 
In both panels, the dark and light shading represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively. 
Financial market quotes are as of March 9. Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Memo 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Percent Information from Financial Markets 
Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy 
2011Q2 2011Q3 2011Q2 2011Q3 
Taylor (1993) rule 0.13 0.13 -0.44 0.02
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -0.77 -0.42 
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -3.17 -2.53
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -3.64 -3.14 
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.18 -0.45
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13 -0.28 -0.71 
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.03 -0.16
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13 -0.18 -0.48 
First-difference rule 0.48 0.84 0.48 0.84
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.36 0.62 0.36 0.62 
2011Q2 2011Q3 
Staff assumption 0.13 0.13 
Fed funds futures 0.11 0.11 
Median expectation of primary dealers 0.13 0.13 
Blue Chip forecast (March 1, 2011) 0.20 0.20 
Strategies0123456789  
0123456789  
 
 
  
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 5 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
range in early 2012.  Thereafter, the federal f unds rate rises gradually  to about 3 percent 
by the end of 2014, about 25 basis po ints higher than in January. 
The lower panel of the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from simple policy 
rules.  As shown in the left-hand colum
ns, pr escriptions from all of the rules, other than 
the first-difference rule, remain at the effective lower bound.  The right-hand columns 
report the prescriptions that would arise from  these rules in the absence of the lower-
bound constraint.  Reflecting the reduced slack and higher infla tion incorporated into the 
staff projection, most of the unconstrained ru les now prescribe tighter monetary policy 
than in January, although their prescriptions  still remain at or below the lower bound.6   
For the rules other than the first-differen ce rule, reduced slack and higher inflation 
contribute about equally to the modest increases in the rules’ prescriptions.  In contrast, 
the first-difference rule calls for an appreci able monetary policy ti ghtening over the next 
two quarters.  This reflects the fact that th e first-difference rule responds to the staff’s 
forecast of a narrowing output gap and—most importantly—a higher in flation profile, and 
does not depend on the still-elevated level of sl ack.  Moreover, the prescriptions from the 
first-difference rule are higher than in the January Tealbook, reflecting primarily the shift 
upward in the staff’s inflation forecast.  
6 Because the Taylor (1993) rule places relativel y more weight on the prior four-quarter core 
inflation rate, this rule’s funds-rate prescription for th e third quarter of 2011 is now just above zero.  The 
prescribed value is, however, within the curre nt target range for the federal funds rate. 
Strategies   
                                                 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 6 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  Alternatives A and B reaffirm the intended increase in 
securities holdings as announ ced in November.  Under Alternative A, however, the 
Committee would indicate that it is prepared to expand its asset purchases beyond the 
amounts and the time frame announced in November to foster its monetary policy objectives.  Under Alternative C, the asset pu rchase program would be scaled back by 
reducing the pace of purchases through the end of the second quarter of 2011.  All of the 
alternatives maintain the existing target for the federal funds rate.  Alternative B 
continues to indicate th at the Committee anticipates that it will maintain the funds rate at 
its effective lower bound for an “extended period.”  Altern ative A would provide more 
explicit forward guidance concerning the like ly duration of the period over which the 
Committee expects to maintain ex ceptionally low levels of th e funds rate.  The language 
in Alternative C, in addition to reducing the rate of asset purchases , would signal that the 
Committee may discontinue the reinvestment of principal payments from its securities 
holdings and raise the federal funds rate soon er than market participants now expect. 
The statement issued under Alternative B would update the Committee’s 
assessment of the current economic situati on, characterizing the information received 
over the intermeeting period as suggesting that  “the economic recovery is on a somewhat 
firmer footing.”  It points to some improvement in labor market conditions, solid 
increases in consumer spending, and the e xpansion of business spending on equipment 
and software, but tempers the good news by not ing that residential and nonresidential 
construction are still weak.  Alternative B rec ognizes the recent increas es in the prices of 
oil and other commodities while reporting th at longer-run inflation expectations have 
remained stable and that measures of underlying inflation “have been subdued.”  
Consistent with the more optimistic assessment of the economic recovery and the stability of inflation expectations, Alternative B states that the recent increases in commodity prices are temporarily boosting headline inflation, but that the Committee 
expects only “limited pass-thr ough to underlying inflation” and “continues to anticipate a 
gradual return to higher leve ls of resource utilization in a context of price stability.” 
Under this alternative, the FO MC would reiterate its inten tion to purchase $600 billion of 
longer-term Treasury securities by the end of  the second quarter of 2011 and to maintain 
its existing policy of reinvesting the principal payments from agency debt and mortgage-
Alternatives   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 7 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
backed securities (MBS) in longer-term Treasur ies.  Finally, the statement for Alternative 
B would reaffirm that the Committee “will regularly review” the pace of its securities  
purchases and the overall size of the program  in light of incoming information and “will 
adjust the program as needed to best fost er maximum employment and price stability.” 
Compared with Alternative B, the statem ent for Altern ative C presents a more 
upbeat view of current and prospective economic activity, stating that the economic 
recovery “is strengthening.”   Although it indicates that  housing remains depressed, it 
presents a generally less qualified assessm ent of the incoming economic information, 
highlighting the improvement in labor market conditions and the ongoing rise in 
consumer and business spending.  Like Altern ative B, the statement for Alternative C 
recognizes the effect that the recent run-up in  the prices of oil a nd other commodities will 
have on headline inflation in the near-ter m while noting that longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable and that  measures of underlying inflation have been 
subdued.  However, Alternative C would indicat e a heightened concer n about inflation by 
stating that the Committee will employ its polic y tools “to ensure” (rather than “to help 
ensure,” as in recent statements) that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its 
mandate.  To achieve the Committee’s objective s, Alternative C would call for a gradual 
reduction in the pace of securities purchases to limit the increase  in its holdings “to a total 
of $450 billion by the end of the second quarter.”  The statement would also indicate that 
the Committee will maintain its reinvestment pol icy only “for the time being” and that it 
anticipates that economic conditions “are likel y to warrant low levels for the federal 
funds rate for some time” rather than “exceptionally low levels” for “an extended 
period.”  
The Committee’s assessmen t of economic conditions under Alternative A would 
indicate a greater concern about the slow progress toward its objectives and would 
indicate that “downside risks to the economic outlook remain significant.”  It states that 
the incoming economic information confirms that the recovery “is co ntinuing” and cites, 
as does Alternative B, gradual improvement in  labor market conditions and increases in 
consumer spending and in business purchases of  equipment and software, but also points 
to continued weakness in nonresidential and residential constructi on.  The statement for 
Alternative A, largely re peats language from the Co mmittee’s recent statements 
expressing concern that household spe nding “remains constrained by high 
unemployment, lower housing wealth, and tight  credit.”  Moreover, it observes that 
higher energy costs “may be weighing on hous ehold spending” even as it recognizes the 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 8 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
effect of the recent rise in prices of ener gy and other commodities on headline inflation.  
Alternative A reports that longe r-term inflation expectations  have remained stable and 
characterizes measures of underlying infla tion as having “trended downward.”  Under 
this alternative, the Committee would state th at it “will” purchase $600 billion of longer-
term Treasury securities by the end of the second quarter of 2011 and “is prepared to 
expand and extend the purchase program if needed” to best foster its objectives.  
The next page tabulates key aspects of  each alternative.  It is followed by 
com
plete draft statements and a presentation of the arguments for each alternative.  
Finally, a box entitled “A Review of Exit Strategy Discussions” provides background for 
the Committee’s discussion of exit st rategies at coming meetings.  
Alternatives   
     
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 9 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
   
    
 
  
   
 
 
    
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 Table 1: Overview of Alternatives for the March 15 FOMC Statement 
Key 
Components January 
Statement March Alternatives 
A B C 
Economic Activity 
Economic 
Recovery is continuing; rate has been insufficient to bring about a 
significant 
improvement in labor market 
conditions is continuing economic recovery 
is on a somewhat 
firmer footing is strengthening 
Labor Market employers remain 
reluctant to add to payrolls although improving 
gradually,  
employment remains 
at low levels overall conditions appear to be 
improving 
gradually conditions are 
improving 
unemployment rate is elevated unemployment rate is elevated unemployment rate remains elevated 
Household 
Spending picked up late last year, but remains 
constrained by …  has been increasing at a solid rate, on net, 
but remains constrained; recent 
increases in energy 
costs weighing on spending has been increasing at a solid rate, on net 
Inflation 
Recent 
Developments commodity prices 
have risen; 
expectations have 
remained stable; measures of 
underlying inflation 
have been trending downward, are 
somewhat low energy and other commodity prices 
have risen significantly, 
boosting headline 
inflation; expectations have 
remained stable; 
measures of underlying inflation 
have trended 
downward, are 
somewhat low commodity prices have risen significantly; 
sharp run-up in oil prices in recent weeks; expectations have remained stable; measures 
of underlying inflation have been subdued, 
continue to be somewhat low 
Outlook and Progress 
Outlook gradual return to higher resource 
utilization with price 
stability  gradual return to higher resource utilization with price 
stability; downside 
risks remain significant gradual return to higher resource utilization w/ price stability, alt hough recent increases 
in the prices of energy and other 
commodities are temporarily putting 
upward pressure on headline inflation; expects limited pass-through to underlying 
inflation 
Progress Toward 
Objectives has been 
disappointingly 
slow n.a. 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 10 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
   
    
 
     
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 Table 1: Overview of Alternatives for the March 15 FOMC Statement 
(continued ) 
Key 
Components January 
Statement March Alternatives 
A B  C 
Target Federal Funds Rate 
Intermeeting 
Period 0 to ¼ percent 0 to ¼ percent 
Forward 
Guidance  exceptionally low 
levels for an 
extended period exceptionally low 
levels at least 
through mid-2012 exceptionally low 
levels for an 
extended period low levels for some time 
SOMA Portfolio Policy 
Approach intends to purchase 
$600 billion of 
Treasuries by end of 2011:Q2 will purchase $600 billion of Treasuries by end of 2011:Q2 intends to purchase 
$600 billion of 
Treasuries by end of 2011:Q2 will gradually reduce pace of purchases of Treasuries; limit 
increase to $450 
billion by end of 2011:Q2 ($150 billion 
less than announced in 
Nov.) 
maintain reinvestment policy maintain reinvestment policy for the time being, maintain reinvestment policy 
Future Policy Action 
Purchase Program will regularly 
review and adjust as 
needed is prepared to 
expand and extend 
if needed will regularly review and adjust as needed will continue to 
review and 
adjust as needed 
Overall will monitor and employ policy tools as necessary to 
support the recovery 
and help ensure  inflation consistent 
with mandate will monitor and employ policy tools as necessary to support the recovery and help 
ensure  inflation consistent with mandate will monitor and employ policy tools as necessary to support 
the recovery and 
ensure inflation consistent with 
mandate 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 11 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
JANUARY FOMC  STATEMENT  
1.  Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December confirms  
that the economic recovery is continuing, though  at a rate that has been insufficient to bring 
about a significant improvement in labor market conditions.  Growth in household spending 
picked up late last year, but remains constr ained by high unemployment, modest income  
growth, lower housing wealth, and tight cr edit.  Business spending on equipment and 
software is rising, while investment in nonr esidential structures is still weak.  Employers 
remain reluctant to add to  payrolls.  Th e housing sector continues to be depressed.  
Although commodity prices have risen, longer-ter m inflation expectations have remained 
stable, and measures of underlying infl ation have been trending downward. 
2.  Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum  employment 
and price stability.  Currently, the unemploy ment rate is elevated, and measures of 
underlying inflation are somewhat low, relativ e to levels that the Committee judges to be 
consistent, over the longer run, with its du al mandate.  Although the Committee anticipates 
a gradual return to higher levels of resour ce utilization in a context of price stability, 
progress toward its objectives has been disappointingly slow.  
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recovery  and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decided today to continue 
expanding its holdings of securities as annou nced in November.  In particular, the 
Committee is maintaining its existing policy  of reinvesting principal payments from its 
securities holdings and intends to purchase $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of the second quarter of 2011.  The Committee will regularly review the pace of its securities purchases and the overall size of the asset-purchase program in light of 
incoming information and will adjust the progr am as needed to best foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  
4.  The Committee will maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource 
utilization, subdued inflation tre nds, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period.   
5.  The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary to support the economic r ecovery and to help 
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent  with its mandate.  
Alternatives   
    
  
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 12 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  MARCH FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A 
1.	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December January 
confirms that the economic recovery is con tinuing. , though at a rate that has been 
insufficient to bring about a significant improvement in   Although overall conditions in 
the labor market conditions appear to be improving gradually, employment remains at 
low levels . Growth in  Household spending has been increasing at a solid rate, on net, in 
recent months picked up late last year , but remains constrained by high unemployment, 
modest income growth , lower housing wealth, and tight credit.  Recent increases in 
energy costs may be weighing on household spending on non-energy goods and 
services.   Business spending on equipment and software is rising, while but investment in 
nonresidential structures is still weak. Employ ers remain reluctant to add to payrolls . The 
housing sector continues to be depressed.  Although energy and other  commodity prices 
have risen significantly since the summer, boosting headline inflation,  longer-term 
inflation expectations have remained stab le, and measures of underlying inflation have 
been  trend ed ing downward. 
2.	 Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment 
and price stability.  Currently, the unemploy ment rate is elevated, and measures of 
underlying inflation are somewhat low, relativ e to levels that the Committee judges to be 
consistent, over the longer run, with its du al mandate.  Although the Committee anticipates 
a gradual return to higher levels of resour ce utilization in a context of price stability, 
progress toward its objectives has been disappointingly slow downside risks to the 
economic outlook remain significant . 
3.	 To promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decided today to continue 
expanding its holdings of securities as annou nced in November.  In particular, the 
Committee is maintaining its existing policy of  reinvesting principal payments from its 
securities holdings and will intends to  purchase $600 billion of longer-term Treasury 
securities by the end of the second quarter of 2011.  The Committee will regularly review 
the pace of its securities purchases and the overall size of the asset -purchase program in 
light of incoming information and will adjust is prepared to expand and extend the 
purchase program the program as if needed to best foster maximum employment and 
price stability. 
4.	 The Committee will maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to currently anticipate s that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, a nd stable inflation expectations, are likely to 
warrant exceptionally low levels  for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2012  for 
an extended period . 
5.	 The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary to support the economic r ecovery and to help 
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent  with its mandate. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 13 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
MARCH FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1.  Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December  January 
suggests  confirms  that the economic recovery is on a somewhat firmer footing, and  
continuing, though at a rate that has been insufficient to bring about  a significant 
improvement in  overall conditions in the  labor market conditions  appear to be  
improving gradually.  Growth in  Household spending  has been increasing at a solid 
rate, on net, in recent months, and  picked up late last year, but remains constrained by  
high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit  
business spending on equipment and software is rising  has been expanding .  However , 
while  investment in nonresidential structures is still weak , and  Employers remain reluctant 
to add to payrolls.  the housing sector continues to be depressed.  Although Commodity  
prices have risen significantly since the summer, and concerns about global supplies of 
crude oil have contributed to a sharp run-up in oil prices in recent weeks .  
Nonetheless, longer-term inflation expectations ha ve remained stable, and measures of 
underlying inflation have been trending downward  subdued . 
2.  Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum  employment 
and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate remains  is  elevated, and measures of 
underlying inflation are  continue to be  somewhat low, relative to levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent, over the longer run, with its dual mandate.  Although  The recent 
increases in the prices of energy and other commodities are temporarily putting 
upward pressure on headline inflation, but  the Committee expects limited pass-
through to underlying inflation and continues to  anticipates  a gradual return to higher 
levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability,  progress toward its objectives 
has been disappointingly slow .  
3.  To promote a stronger pace of economic recovery  and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decided today to continue 
expanding its holdings of securities as annou nced in November.  In particular, the 
Committee is maintaining its existing policy  of reinvesting principal payments from its 
securities holdings and intends to purchase $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities 
by the end of the second quarter of 2011[, a pace of about $80 billion a month] .  The 
Committee will regularly review the pace of its securities purchases and the overall size of the asset-purchase program in light of incoming information and will adjust the program as needed to best foster maximum employment and price stability. 
4.  The Committee will maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource 
utilization, subdued inflation tre nds, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period.   
5.  The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary to support the economic r ecovery and to help 
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent  with its mandate.   
  
 
 
  
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 14 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
MARCH FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1.  Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December  January 
confirms that the economic recovery is strengthening and conditions in the labor market 
are improving . continuing, though at a rate that h as been insufficient to bring about a 
significant improvement in labor market conditions.  Growth in Household spending has 
been increasing at a solid rate, on net, and  picked up late last year, but remains  
constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and 
tight credit  business investment has been expanding .  spending  on equipment and software 
is rising, while investment in nonresidential structures is still weak.  Employers remain 
reluctant to add to payrolls.   However,  the housing sector continues to be depressed.  
Although  Commodity prices have risen significantly since the summer, and concerns 
about global supplies of crude oil have contributed to a sharp run-up in oil prices in 
recent weeks .  Nonetheless, longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable, and 
measures of underlying inflation have been trending downward  subdued . 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum  employment 
and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate is  remains  elevated, and measures of 
underlying inflation are  continue to be  somewhat low, relative to levels that the Committee 
judges to be consistent, over the longer run, with its dual mandate.  Although  The recent 
increases in the prices of energy and other commodities are temporarily putting upward pressure on headline inflation, but  the Committee expects limited pass-
through to underlying inflation and continues to  anticipates  a gradual return to higher 
levels of resource utilization in a context of  price stability, progress toward its objectives 
has been disappointingly slow . 
3.  To support the  promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to help ensure that 
inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee decided today to  
continue expanding its holdings of securities as announced in November .  However, in 
light of incoming economic information, the Committee will gradually reduce the pace 
of its purchases of longer-term Treasury securities with the intention of limiting the increase in its holdings to a total of $450 billion by the end of the second quarter of  
2011—$150 billion less than announced in November.   In particular  For the time being , 
the Committee is maintaining its existing policy  of reinvesting principal payments from its 
securities holdings and intends to purchase $600 billion of longer -
term Treasury securities 
by the end of the second quarter of 2011 .  The Committee will continue to  regularly  review 
the pace of its securities purchases and the overall size of the asset-purchase program in 
light of incoming information and will adjust the program  as needed to best foster 
maximum  employment and price stability. 
4.  The Committee will maintain the target range fo r the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent 
and continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource 
utilization, subdued inflation tre nds, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant 
exceptionally  low levels for the federal funds rate for some time  an extended period .   
5.  The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments, 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary to  support the economic recovery and to help  
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent  with its mandate.   
 
  
 
 
 
Alternatives   
     
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 15 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
If policymakers believe that the medium-term outlook for real activity and 
inflation remains broadly in line with thei r expectations at the time of the January 
meeting, they may judge that the current stan ce of policy is still appropriate, and thus 
choose to issue a statement along the lines of  Alternative B.  Such a statement would 
convey the Committee’s judgment that the economic recovery appears to be on a 
somewhat firmer footing and that employment and inflation are likely to continue to 
move toward mandate-consistent levels over time. 
The Committee, like the staff, may interpret the in coming information on 
spending and production as suggesting that , on balance, the economic recovery is 
progressing as anticipated.  Policymakers may believe that the combination of adverse 
weather in January and the unexpected run-up in energy prices will damp the rise in 
consumer spending only temporarily, and that, as  these factors fade, the pace of consumer 
spending will pick up again, supported by lowe r payroll taxes and improved consumer 
sentiment.  In addition, the foreign exchange  value of the dollar has declined somewhat 
further over the intermeeti ng period, and the outlook for economic activity abroad 
remains generally positive, despite the political  disruptions in the Mi ddle East and North 
Africa.  Regarding inflation, although the recent increases in  the prices of energy and 
other commodities are boosti ng the headline figures, underlyi ng measures of inflation 
continue to be subdued, unit la bor costs have changed littl e, and longer-run inflation 
expectations remain in the ranges observed in recent years.  Moreover, although the 
global oil market remains volatile, quotes fr om crude oil futures markets suggest that 
market participants expect that supply disloca tions will ease over time and that prices will 
stabilize.  Thus, the Committee may anticipate that the recent rise in commodity prices 
will lead to only a temporary and relatively mode st increase in consumer price inflation.  
If the Committee judges that the medium term outlook for real activity and inflation has 
not changed significantly, it may decide th at completing the $600 billion purchase 
program by mid-year, as in Alternative B, re mains appropriate to provide support for the 
recovery and to help ensure that inflati on, over time, is at a level that policymakers 
believe to be consistent with  the Committee’s dual mandate. 
    Policymakers may see some risk that higher prices for oil and other 
commodities could not only push near-term inflati on higher but also could lead to a rise 
in longer-run inflation expectations, suggesting the need for tighter policy.  They may be 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 16 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
reassured, however, that, so far, long-term inflation expectations have remained stable.  
And they may judge that, if they remain so, tighter policy is not warranted.  The 
alternative simulation, “Greater Commodity Price Increases,” in the Tealbook considers a 
scenario in which commodity prices rise noti ceably further, and ta kes into consideration 
the extent to which such increases might both boost headline infl ation and reduce real 
income and spending.  The scenario shows that, under the prescriptions of standard 
policy rules and with the $600 billion asset pu rchase program completed at mid-year, the 
net effect of a further increas e in oil and non-oil commodity pr ices on short-term interest 
rates is likely to be small when longer-run in flation expectations remain well anchored.  
This outcome is reminiscent of the 2007-08 pe riod when transitory increases in energy 
prices and headline inflation left onl y a small imprint on core inflation.  
Alternatively, recent economic developments may have increased policymakers’ 
uncertainty about the pace and durability of the expansion.  In particular, the political 
unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and the attendant jum
p in oil prices may have 
increased the risks of an adverse shock to economic activity thr ough lower real income  
and greater household and business uncertaint y.  And, with global economic and political 
prospects more uncertain, investors could become less willing to hold risky assets, as 
discussed in the “Greater Geopolitical Risks”  scenario in the Tealbook.  In addition, the 
outlook for government spending remains quite unc lear, with the possibility of substantial 
reductions at both the federal and the state a nd local levels this year.  While recognizing 
the greater uncertainty, the Committee may see important benefits in waiting for 
additional information on developments abroad and the strength of the recovery before 
signaling its willingness to expand and ex tend its asset purchase program.   
More broadly, policymakers may continue to have a high threshold for making an 
adjustment to the purchase program because  they see fine tuning as undesirable or 
because they want to minimize financial mark et volatility.  In particular, policymakers 
may judge that unexpectedly discontinuing or reducing the current program, as in 
Alternative C, would be unset tling to financial markets, particularly at a time of 
heightened uncertainty about th e economic consequences of political developments in the 
Middle East and North Africa.  That sai d, as discussed in th e Box, “Tapering of 
Purchases,” the Committee may want to consider , as part of its regular reviews of the 
asset purchase program going forward, the pos sible benefits and costs of tapering its 
purchases as the program draws to a close.    
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 17 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
Tapering  of  Purchases  
The  statement  under  Alternative  B  again  indicates   that  the  Committee  will  
regularly  review  the  pace  and  overall  size  of  the  asset  purchase  program.   As  part  
of  those  reviews,  the  Committee  may  want  to  consider   the  possibility   of  tapering  
its  Treasury  purchases   as  the  program  draws  to  a  close.   A  decision  to  taper  
would  require  an  extension  of  the  program  into  the  third  quarter,  under  the  
assumption   that  the  Committee  decided  to  complete  the  intended  $600  billion   of  
purchases   announced   last  November.1   Such  an  approach  would  be  similar  to  that  
taken  at  the  end  of  the  earlier  Treasury   and  agency  MBS  purchase  programs.     
If  the  effect   of  Treasury  purchases   on  yields  depends   only  on  the  total  stock  of  
securities   purchased   under  the  program,  then  an  abrupt  end  to  the  purchases   
once  that  stock  is  reached  will  not  affect  yields,  and  so  tapering  is  unlikely  to  be  
necessary,   especially   if  investors  understand   when   the  program  will  end.   
However,  if  the  flow  of  purchases   has  a  significant   effect  on  yields,  then   a  sudden  
cessation   of  purchases   could  cause   a  “cliff  effect,”   with  yields  rising  sharply  in  
response  to  the  end  of  the  program.    Evidence   from  the  asset  purchase   
programs   thus  far  suggests  that  it  is  primarily  the  stock  of  purchases   that  affects  
asset  prices.   Moreover,   flow  effects  from  the  recent  purchases   are  probably   
quite  small,  given  the  depth  and  liquidity  of  the  Treasury  market.   These   
considerations  suggest  that  there   may  be  limited  value  to  tapering   purchases   
made  under  the  current  program.      
The  risk  that  an   abrupt  end  to  purchases   would  be  disruptive  to  markets  would  
appear  higher  if  market  participants   expected   the  Federal  Reserve  to  taper.    
However,   sixteen  of  the  twenty  dealers  in  the  Desk  survey  indicated   that  they  
expected   the  current  $600  billion  in  asset  purchases   to  end  in  June,  suggesting   
that  they  do  not  expect   any  tapering.      
Nonetheless,   policymakers   might  see  some  value  to  tapering  the  current  
program  because  they  cannot  be  sure  that  an  abrupt  end  to  Federal  Reserve  
purchases   will  not  trigger  an  undesirable   rise  in  Treasury  yields.   In  addition,  
tapering  purchases   into  the  third  quarter  might  be  seen  as  beneficial   because  it  
would  give  the  Committee   more  time  to  make  adjustments   to  the  size  of  the  
program  if  that  became  appropriate.    However,   some  policymakers   may  be  
worried  that  tapering  could  increase  public  uncertainty   about  the  Committee's   
intentions   regarding   its  asset  purchases.    Finally,  the  Committee   might  be  
concerned   that  an  extension   of  the  period  over  which  purchases   are  completed   
could,  if  macroeconomic   conditions   changed  sufficiently   rapidly,  lead  to  an  
inappropriate   delay  in  the  start  of  the  removal   of  policy  accommodation.     
1 We rule out here a temporary rise in purchases followed by a tapered decline to zero by 
the end of the second quarter. Under Alternative C, the Committee would reduce total 
purchases and taper them so that the purchase program is completed at the end of the second 
quarter. 
Alternatives   
                                                  
                                   
                           
                                 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 18 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
Market participants are generally expec ting the Committee to make no changes to 
the asset purchase program or the “extended period” language at its March meeting.  The 
statement is also anticipated  to include no major changes beyond updates to the economic 
situation.  As a result, the a doption of a statement along the lines of Alternative B would 
likely result in little ch ange in bond yields, equity prices, or the foreign exchange value of 
the dollar.  
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
   Policymakers may view the rapid d ecline in the unemployment rate over the 
past three months and the rise  in headline inflation as sugge sting that the upside risks to 
real activity and inflation have increa sed, justifying some reduction in policy 
accommodation, along the lines of Alternative C.   Even though the incoming data on 
economic activity have been somewhat mixed, policymakers may judge that many of the 
fundamental factors supporting the ex pansion, including accommodative financial 
conditions, rising business and consumer optim ism, and strong foreign economic growth 
are likely to lead to an acceleration in economic activity  this year.  Indeed, some  
policymakers may see a sizable probability th at real activity will rebound strongly from  
the temporary factors that may have held back  spending early this year and then continue 
to accelerate, as in the “Faster Recovery” alternative presented in the Tealbook.  Under 
that scenario, the self-rein forcing dynamics of a pickup in hiring, stronger spending, 
increased credit availability, a nd greater optimism generate a more robust recovery and 
buoy financial markets.  In addition, some polic ymakers may want to offset some, or all, 
of the decline in short-term r eal interest rates th at occurred in recen t weeks as near-term 
inflation expectations moved up.1  And some participants may find a reduction in policy 
accommodation at this meeting attractive becau se they see possible signs of increased 
leverage in some parts of the financial system that could contribute to financial 
instability. 2  As a result, the Committee may want  to scale back its asset purchases to 
$450 billion and modify the statement langua ge to indicate a somewhat earlier 
commencement of policy tightening, as in Alternative C.   
For now, longer-term inflation expectations  appear well anchored despite the 
steep run-up in prices of oil and other commodities.  However, policymakers may see a 
1 The yields on two-year TIPS declined about 40 basis points over the intermeeting period. 
2 On leverage in the financial system, see the discussion of the Senior Credit Officer Opinion 
Survey on Dealer Financing Terms in the appendix to the Financial Developments section of Book A and 
the memorandum “Asset Valuations,” which was sent to the Committee on March 10, 2011. 
Alternatives   
                                                    
 
 
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 19 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
significant risk that these price increases ma y persist or continue and that inflation 
expectations might begin to move up notic eably in the context of accelerating real 
activity and diminished economic slack, as sugg ested in the “More Persistent Inflation” 
Tealbook alternative simulation.  That scenar io highlights the risks that if supply 
conditions in the U.S. and abroad were tighter  than in the baseline,  the upward pressure 
on commodity prices could intensify as th e recovery gains stre ngth, driving headline 
inflation higher, eroding confidence in the Committee’s commitment to price stability, 
and, thus, raising longer-term inflation expectatio ns.  In light of such risks, participants 
may view an earlier-than-expected scaling ba ck of policy accommodation as necessary to 
keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. 
As noted earlier, the Desk’s survey of primary dealers suggested that market 
participants anticipate that the Committee will reiterate its intention to expand its 
securities holdings by $600 billion and will retain the “extended period” language.  A 
statement that reduces the size of the a sset purchase program, drops the “extended 
period” language, and makes other changes to the statement along the lines of Alternative 
C, would consequently be a significant surpri se to investors.  As  a result, longer-term  
interest rates would likely increase, alt hough the Committee’s move to tighten policy  
sooner than investors currently anticipate might lead to some reduction in inflation risk 
premiums.  Stock prices would likely decline and the foreign exchange value of the dollar 
would probably increase.     
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
Policymakers may view economic devel opments as suggesting that downside 
risks to the pace of the expa nsion remain significant and thus think it appropriate to 
indicate that they are prepared to provide additional policy accommodation, if it is needed, to promote the FOMC’s dual mandate.  If so, the Committee may wish to express 
its willingness to expand a nd extend its program of asset purchases beyond the amounts 
announced in November.  At the same time, the Committee may wish to provide more explicit forward guidance concerning the like ly duration of the period of exceptionally 
low federal funds rates, as in Alternative A. 
The Committee may have read the inco ming economic indicators as suggesting 
that the recovery has not been as strong as anticipated at the time of the January meeting.  
The rise in consumer spending early this year  may have disappointed some policymakers, 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 20 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
and, along with the continued weakness in housing markets, may have raised concerns 
about the strength and durability of the recovery .  Moreover, the run-up in energy costs, if 
it persists, may weigh on household spendi ng on non-energy goods and services, and the 
ongoing political turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa could depress consumer 
and business confidence.  In addition, federal fiscal policy appears li kely to be tighter 
than previously thought, and spending by st ate and local governments may be weaker.  
With longer-term inflation expectations con tinuing to be well anchored, policymakers 
may want to emphasize that the door is open to expand and extend the asset purchase program in light of the increased downside risks to the recovery in real activity and 
employment.  Even if members continue to  anticipate that the economy is likely to 
gradually return to higher levels of resource utilization in the cont ext of price stability 
without further monetary stimulus, they may view a statement along the lines of 
Alternative A as providing r eassurance to businesses and households that the Committee 
is committed to support the recovery, partic ularly in light of the recent unsettling 
economic news.   
Alternatively, policymakers may continue to view the progress toward their 
longer-run objectives as disa ppointingly slow and judge that  Alternative A appropriately 
recognizes the likely need for more policy stimul us before long.  In particular, despite the 
surprising decline in the une mployment rate, other measures of labor utilization, 
including employment and hours worked, have moved up only gradually.  Moreover, the optimal control simulations presented in the Monetary Policy Strategies Section of the 
Tealbook call for additional polic y easing in order to best foster the Committee’s 
objectives.  Policymakers may interpret thes e results as suggesting that additional 
stimulus could help contribute to higher levels of employment  without allowing an 
excessive rise in inflation.  They also may judge that the risks associated with further 
expansion of the balance sheet are low relative to the benefits, and in particular, may be 
confident that the Committee’s tools for draining reserves are ready for use at the 
appropriate time.      
  The Committee may also want to communi cate more explicitly its expectations 
for the path of the federal funds rate by stating that it anticipates that econom
ic 
conditions, including low rates of resource ut ilization, subdued inflation trends, and 
stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal 
funds rate at least through mid-2012.  In light  of the modest shift over the intermeeting 
period in market expectations toward an earlier date for the first increase in the federal 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 21 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
funds rate, members may be concerned about a further shift, and a possible unwarranted 
rise in interest rates, if the recovery strengthened.  An explic it indication of the 
Committee’s intention could help limit investor uncertainty and reduce term premiums 
and, thus, lower intermediate  and longer-term Treasury yiel ds, thereby providing support 
for aggregate demand.   
An announcement indicating that the Committee is open to expanding and 
extending the asset purchase pr ogram would likely surprise ma rket participants.  Longer-
term yields could decline, a lthough this effect would likely be  limited if investors were to 
perceive the statement as adding to the upside risks to inflation.  Equity prices would 
probably rise, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar would likely decline.  
Alternatives   
     
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 22 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
Review  of  Exit  Strategy   Discussions  
Last  April,   the  Committee  discussed   approaches   for  exiting  from  the  very  accommodative   
policy  stance  in  place  at  that  time.   The  weakening   of  the  economy   over  the  summer   
shifted  the  Committee’s   focus  away  from  exit  and  toward  providing   additional   policy  
accommodation   to  promote  a  stronger  recovery  and  return  inflation  to  levels  consistent  
with  the  dual  mandate.    With   the  recovery  potentially   back  on  track,  the  Committee  may  
soon   want   to  resume  its  discussion   about  exit  issues.  
SUMMARY  OF  PAST  FOMC  DISCUSSIONS  
Participants   at  the  April  2010  meeting  expressed  broad  support  for  a  strategy   of  
normalizing   the  size  and  composition   of  the  balance  sheet  over   time.   They  noted  that  a  
reduction  in  the  size  of  the  Federal  Reserve’s  balance  sheet  could  help  lower  reserve  
balances  to  levels  consistent   with   more  normal  operations   of  money  markets  and  
monetary   policy.   They  also  observed   that  a  portfolio   consisting   solely  of  Treasury  
securities   would  likely  minimize   the  extent  to  which  the  Federal  Reserve  might   be  
affecting   the  allocation   of  credit  across   sectors  of  the  economy.   
Most  participants   favored  eventual  sales  of  agency  debt  and  mortgage ‐backed  securities   
(MBS)  as  a  means  for  achieving   a  more  normal  size  and  composition   of  the  Federal  
Reserve’s   portfolio.    Most  judged  that  selling  agency  debt  and  MBS  at  a  pace  that  would  
bring  holdings  of  these  securities   down  to  zero  over   a  five‐year  period  would  normalize   
the  portfolio   sufficiently   quickly  while  not  disrupting   financial  markets.    Participants   
agreed  that  sales  should  be  implemented   in  accordance   with   a  framework   communicated   
in  advance   and  at  a  pace  that  could  be  adjusted   in  response  to  changes  in  economic   and  
financial  conditions.    Some  participants   suggested   that,  in  addition  to  selling  agency  debt  
and  MBS,  holdings   of  Treasury  securities   might   also  be  reduced  by  temporarily   
suspending   the  Committee’s   policy  of  rolling  over   maturing   Treasury  securities.1  
Most  participants   indicated   a
  preference  to  begin  asset  sales  when  the  economic   
recovery  has  been  firmly  established   and  at  some  point  after  the  first  increase  in  the  
Committee’s   short‐term   interest  rate  target.   This  strategy  would  make  raising  short‐term   
interest  rates  the  Committee’s   key  policy  tightening   tool,  while  reductions   in  holdings   of  
agency  debt  and  MBS  would  be  gradual  and  less  prominent   as  an  instrument  of  short‐run  
monetary   policy.   Participants   envisioned   that  an  increase  in  short‐ term  rates  would  be  
achieved   by  raising  the  interest  rate  the  Reserve  Banks  pay  on  excess  reserves.   They  
acknowledged   that  use  of  temporary   reserve  draining  tools,  such  as  term  reverse  
repurchase  agreements   and  term  deposits,  might  also  be  needed  to  reduce  the  supply  of  
reserve  balances   quickly  and  by  a  sizable  amount  in  order  to  tighten  the  link  between  the  
rate  paid  on  excess   reserves  and  market  rates.    
Some  participants,   however,   did  not  think  it  necessary  to  link  the  date  of  the  initiation  of  
asset  sales  to  the  first  increase  in  the  Committee’s   interest  rate  target.   An  alternative   
approach   might  involve  a  pre‐announced   schedule  of  asset  sales  that  would  start  to  
1 Participants identified both advantages and disadvantages to redeeming Treasury securities as 
they mature. Although redemptions would contribute to a more expeditious normalization of the size 
of the balance sheet, they might also put upward pressure on long term interest rates and would tend 
to work against the objective of returning the SOMA to an allTreasuries composition. 
Alternatives   
                                                  
                       
                           
                                 
                         
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 23 of 43‐
‐
Authorized for Public Release
normalize   the  size  and  composition   of  the  balance  sheet  before  interest  rate   tightening   
gets  under  way.   In  addition,   a  couple   of  participants   suggested   that  selling  agency  debt  
and  MBS  over  three  years,  rather  than  five,  could  reduce  the  potential   for  the  high  level  
of  reserve  balances  associated   with  the  elevated  size  of  the  Federal  Reserve’s  securities   
holdings  to  have  adverse  effects.  
NEW  CONSIDERATIONS  
The  Committee’s   decisions,   taken  in  the  second  half  of  2010,  to  reinvest  principal   
payments   from  agency  debt  and  MBS  into  longer‐term  Treasury  securities   and  to  
purchase  additional   Treasury  securities   have  resulted  in  a  larger  quantity  of  reserve  
balances  and  a  larger  SOMA  portfolio,   which  is  more  heavily  concentrated   in  Treasury  
securities,   than  the  Committee  anticipated   when  it  discussed   exit  strategy  last  spring.    
The  Committee  may  wish  to  revisit  some  exit  strategy  elements   in  light  of  the  changes  in  
its  balance  sheet  over  the  past  year.   For  one,  the  Committee   will  need  to  decide  when  to  
cease  reinvestment  of  agency  debt  and  agency  MBS  proceeds   into  longer‐term  Treasury  
securities,   as  well  as  whether  and  when  Treasury  redemptions   might  be  appropriate.    In  
addition,  the  Federal  Reserve’s   larger   balance  sheet  and  higher  level  of  reserves  
outstanding   could  incline  some  policymakers   to  begin  asset  sales  sooner  or  to  conduct  
them  at  a  more  rapid  pace  than  had  been  previously   contemplated.    Policymakers   might  
also  examine  the  potential   desirability   of  incorporating   Treasury  securities   into  an  asset  
sales  program.    Sales  of  Treasury  securities   might  be  useful,  for  example,   if  the  
Committee   wished  to  reduce  the  size  of  the  Federal  Reserve’s  balance  sheet  relatively   
rapidly  and  if  sales  of  agency  MBS  proved  to  be  disruptive  to  mortgage  markets.  
The  Committee   might  also  want  to  consider  the  early  use  of  temporary   draining  tools  to  
reduce  the  supply  of  reserve  balances,   either  in  conjunction   with   or  before  undertaking   
asset  sales.   For  example,   large‐scale  reserve‐draining  operations   might  enhance  the  
Federal  Reserve’s   control  over  short‐term   interest  rates  if  an  increase   in  the  interest  rate  
paid  on  excess  reserves  does  not  boost  the  federal   funds   rate  to  the  desired  extent.   
Alternatively,   the  temporary   draining  tools  might  be  used  to  initiate  a  tightening   of  
monetary   conditions   prior  to  an  increase  in  the  rate  on  excess  reserves.    
MARKET  EXPECTATIONS  
Results  from  the  March   survey  of  primary  dealers  indicate  that   dealers  assign  high  
probabilities   to  the  Federal  Reserve  halting  the  reinvestment  of  principal  payments   at  
some  point  over  the  next  two  years,  with   median  probabilities   of  85  and  90  percent,   
respectively,   for  halting  reinvestment  of  principal  payments   for  agency  debt  and  MBS,  
and  73  percent   for  halting  reinvestments   for  maturing   Treasury  securities.   Dealers   assign  
a  higher  median  probability   to  the  likelihood   of  Treasury   sales  over  the  next  five  years  
than   to  sales  of  agency  debt  or  MBS  (65  percent,   compared   with  43  and  50  percent,   
respectively),   reportedly   reflecting   concerns   about  the  possible  effect  of  sales  of  agency‐
related  securities   on  the  housing  market.    
Alternatives   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 24 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
 LONG-RUN  PROJECTIONS OF  THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE  
The staff has prepared two scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy Alterna tives A, B, and C (though the language in the statements 
differs, Alternatives A and B have the same  balance sheet projection) .  Projections under 
each scenario are based on assumptions about  various components of  the balance sheet.3   
Details of these assumptions, as well as pr ojections for each major component of the 
balance sheet, can be found in Explanatory Note C.  
3 All scenarios assume the same path for the federal funds rate. 
Alternatives   
    
 
For the scenario that corr esponds to Alternatives A and B, we assume that the 
FOMC completes the intended expansion of its  holdings of longer-t erm securities of $600 
billion by th
e end of the second quarter of 2011.  The proceeds from principal repayments 
from Treasury securities and agency securities  continue to be rei nvested in longer-term 
Treasury securities after that time.  Under these assumptions, the size of the balance sheet 
reaches about $2.9 trillion by the end of the s econd quarter of this year and remains at 
about that level until the targ et federal funds rate incr eases in September of 2012.  
Immediately after liftoff, all maturing secu rities and prepayments of securities are 
allowed to roll off the portfolio, and the bala nce sheet begins to contract.  Six months 
after the assumed rise in the target federa l funds rate, the Committee begins to sell 
remaining holdings of agency MBS and agency debt securities at a pace that reduces the 
                                                 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 25 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
amount of these securities in th e portfolio to zero in five y ears, by the end of the first 
quarter of 2018.4, 5  This action also reduces the si ze of the balance sheet between 2013 
and 2015.   
After reserve balances have reached th e assumed $25 billion floor and the U.S. 
Treasury’s Supplementary Financing Account  (SFA) has been wound down, the balance 
sheet begins to expand, with increases in holdings of Treasury s ecurities matching the 
growth of Federal Reserve capital and notes in circulation.6  The balance sheet reaches a 
size of nearly $1.9 trillion by the end of 2020.7   
Under Alternative C, the purchases of l onger-term Treasury securities are reduced 
to $450 billion, and are still assumed to be co mpleted by the end of the second quarter of 
2011.  The size of the balance sheet peak s around $2.7 trillion when the purchase 
program ends.  The timing of the other change s in the balance sheet is the same as in 
Alternatives A and B.   
Compared with the January Tealbook projection, total assets in Alternatives A 
and B are roughly unchanged until the lift off of the federal funds rate.  However, 
because the funds rate liftoff occurs earlier in this projection, total asse ts are lower than in 
the January Tealbook from September 2012 through the first quarter of 2016.8  Further 
out in the projection, total a ssets under Alternat ives A and B exceed the corresponding 
levels in the January Tealbook.  This differe nce stems from an upw ard revision in the 
projection of currency in circ ulation, which is assumed to be matched by an increase in 
the size of the SOMA portfolio.  On the li ability side of the balance sheet, reserve 
4 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the volume of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five year period is minimal. 
5 Under all of the scenarios presented, the tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurchase 
agreements and the Term Deposit Facility) are assumed to not be used.  Use of these tools would result in a 
shift in the composition of Federal Reserve liabilities, but not an overall change in the size of the balance 
sheet. 
6 In the near term, the SFA is projected to be wound down to $5 billion as the level of public debt 
outstanding that is subject to the federal debt limit approaches the statutory ceiling. We assume that once 
the debt ceiling is raised the SFA is increased back to $200 billion by September 2011. 
7 The composition of Federal Reserve assets in these projections differs notably at times from 
historical patterns.  Prior to August 2007, U.S. Tr easury securities made up 100 percent of the domestic 
securities portfolio.  By contrast, under Alternative B,  Treasury securities are around 53 percent of the 
domestic securities portfolio at the end of February 2011.  By the end of 2018 , Treasury securities account 
for 100 percent of the domestic securities portfolio under all scenarios. 
8 The projections assume that all securities are allo wed to roll off the portfolio as they prepay or 
mature once the federal funds rate lifts off. Prior to th at date, all securities that prepay or mature are rolled 
over into Treasury securities. 
Alternatives   
                                                    
 
   
  
  
    
 
      
 
   
  
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 26 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
balances are lower than in the previous Teal book in the near term, largely reflecting the 
earlier date of rolling securities off the portfolio.     
After expanding in 2011, on net, the mone tary base is projected to contract 
through 2015 reflecting the decline in Fede ral Reserve assets and the associated 
downward trend in reserve balances. 
Apr-10 -28.6 -28.6 -28.6 
May-10 -20.1 -20.1 -20.1 
Jun-10 -3.9 -3.9 -3.9 
Jul -10 -5.1 -5.1 -5.1 
Aug-10 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 
Sep-10 -10.1 -10.1 -10.1 
Oct-10 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 
Nov-10 3.2 3.2 3.2 
Dec-10 16.8 16.8 16.8 
Jan-11 23.3 23.3 28.6 
Feb-11 57.6 57.6 98.9 
Mar-11 103.4 99.8 123.2 
2010 Q2 -6.2 -6.2 -6.2 2010 Q3 -6.4 -6.4 -6.4 
2010 Q4 -3.2 -3.2 -3.2 
2011 Q1 37.5 37.0 52.2 2011 Q2 69.9 57.6 75.9 
2009 52.5 52.5 52.5 
2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 
2011 27.3 19.4 33.6 2012 -4.1 -4.4 -0.9 2013 -17.5 -17.9 -10.0 2014 -20.2 -20.5 -19.3 2015 -21.6 -15.5 -25.4 
Note: Not seasonally adjusted. Monthly 
Quarterly 
Annual - Q4 to Q4 Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternatives A 
and B Alternative C 
Memo: 
January 
Tealbook 
Percent, annual rate 
Alternatives   
       
        
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 27 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial debt is expected to expand at an annual rate of 2½ percent 
in the first quarter of this year, driven by a rapid expansi on in federal government debt 
and a gradual advance in private nonfinancial  debt.  Although federal government debt is 
expected to reach its statutory limit in the s econd quarter, the projections assume that the 
limit will be raised in a timely manner.  Domestic nonfinancial debt is forecasted to grow 
at an annual rate of about 5¼ pe rcent, on average, over the next  two years, as federal debt 
continues to expand briskly a nd private nonfinancial debt accelerates modestly.  Despite 
low mortgage rates, home mortgage debt is pr ojected to continue to contract in 2011 and 
to be flat in 2012, reflecti ng projections of house prices  declining through early 2012, 
lending standards easing slowly, and the hous ing sector remaining weak.  Consumer 
credit growth is forecasted to be moderate this quarter and pick up in coming quarters, 
driven by growth in spending on consumer dur ables.  Nonfinancial business debt is 
forecasted to rise gradually this year and expand at an annual rate of 4½ percent in 2012, 
reflecting a pickup in capital expend itures over the projection period. 
Commercial bank credit is expected to c ontract at about a 2 percent pace in  the 
current quarter, reflecting a continued decline in loans and a slight reduction in securities 
holdings.  Bank credit is projected to begin to  rise in the second quarter and increase 
about 1 percent for 2011 as a whole and about 3½ percent in 2012 as loans begin to grow 
at a modest pace and securities expand at a moderate rate.  The persistent decline in 
commercial and industrial (C&I) loans appeared  to end late last year.  C&I loans are 
projected to advance moderately over the foreca st period as a result of continued growth 
in investment outlays and a further gradua l easing of lending sta ndards.  With the 
commercial real estate sector expected to  face weak market fundamentals, commercial 
real estate loans are projected to decrease over the forecast period.  Re sidential real estate 
loans are expected to exhib it tepid growth beginning in  the second half of 2011 and 
continuing into 2012.  Consumer loans are forecas ted to contract duri ng the first half of 
2011 and then to increase modestly during the remainder of 2011 and 2012, with the gains driven, in part, by declines in charge-o ffs.  Banks’ securities holdings are projected 
to expand more slowly over the forecast horizon than in 2010, when securities growth 
reflected weak loan demand and ongoing deposit inflows.  
M2 growth is projected to slow slightly to a 3 percent rate in 2011 before picking 
up a bit in 2012.  The contour of this projec tion assumes that households will reallocate 
Alternatives   
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 28 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
their portfolios away from safe and liquid M2  assets toward highe r-yielding investments 
that are outside of M2 as the economic recove ry gains strength thr ough the course of this 
year.  Thereafter, with the portfolio reallocation completed in early 2012, M2 is projected 
to grow at a modest rate in line with fundamentals:  M2 growth is buoyed by the 
expansion of nominal GDP over 2012, but later in the year is damped somewhat by the 
projected rise in the opportunity cost of holding money.  Within M2, liquid deposits are 
forecasted to grow at a more moderate pa ce than in 2009 and 2010.  Small time deposits 
and retail money market mutual funds are proj ected to continue to  contract, though at a 
diminished pace.  Currency is anticipated to expand moderately, reflecting ongoing solid demand from both domestic and international sources.  
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast* 
Jun 2010 4.3 
Jul 2010 2.3 
Aug 2010 6.3 
Sep 2010 6.6 
Oct 2010 5.5 
Nov 2010 5.1 
Dec 2010 4.2 
Jan 2011 2.9 
Feb 2011 7.1 
Mar 2011 3.0 
Apr 2011 3.0 
May 2011 3.0 
Jun 2011 2.5 
Quarterly Growth Rates 
2010 Q3 4.5 
2010 Q4 5.6 
2011 Q1 4.4 
2011 Q2 3.4 
2011 Q3 2.2 
Annual Growth Rates 
2009 5.0 
2010 3.2 
2011 3.0 
2012 3.3 
* This forecast is consistent with nominal G DP and interest rates in the 
Tealbook forecast. Actual data through February 2011; projections thereafter. M2 Growth Rates 
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
Alternatives   
       
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 29 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
DIRECTIVE  
The January directive app ears below.  Drafts for a March directive that 
correspond to each of the three policy alternatives appear on subsequent pages.  The 
Directives for Alternatives A and B would inst ruct the Desk to cont inue carrying out the 
increase in the SOMA’s securities holdi ngs of $600 billion by the end of June 2011 
through purchases of longer-ter m Treasury securities while also continuing the current 
policy of reinvesting principal payments on SOMA securities.  The directive for 
Alternative C is for an increase in the SOMA’s holdings  totaling $450 billion by the end 
of June 2011 while continuing the current po rtfolio policy of re investing principal 
payments. 
January 2011 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6 trillion by the end of June 2011.  The Comm ittee also directs the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of  
maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
     
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 30 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
March 2011 FOMC Direct ive — Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6 trillion by the end of June 2011.  The Comm ittee also directs the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of  
maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
     
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 31 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
March 2011 FOMC Direct ive — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seek s monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6 trillion by the end of June 2011.  The Comm ittee also directs the Desk to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of  
maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
     
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 32 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
March 2011 FOMC Direct ive — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
execute  purchases of longer-term Treasury securiti es in order to increase the total face 
value of domestic securities held in the Sy stem Open Market Account to approximately 
$2.6  $2.5 
trillion by the end of June 2011.  The Committee also directs the Desk to 
reinvest principal payments from agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in 
longer-term Treasury securities.  The Syst em Open Market Account Manager and the 
Secretary will keep the Committee informed  of ongoing developments regarding the 
System’s balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee’s 
objectives of maximum employ ment and price stability. 
Alternatives   
    
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 33 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 34 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
Explanatory Notes  
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The equilibrium real rate is the real federal funds rate that, if maintained, would return 
output to its potential level sometime in the futu re.  The short-run equilibrium rate is defined as 
the rate that would close the output gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding model’s 
projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal funds rate 
projected to prevail in seven years, under the assu mption that monetary policy acts to bring actual 
and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps them equal thereafter. 
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy— 
depend on data for major spending categories, price and wages, and the federal funds rate as well as the model’ s structure and estimate of the output 
gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the extended baseline. 
Explanatory Notes  
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 35 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor, arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the nominal 
rate and realized inflation, where the nominal ra te is measured as the quarterly average of the 
observed federal funds rate, and r ealized inflation is given by the log difference between the core 
PCE price index and its lagged value four quarter s earlier.  If the upcoming FOMC meeting falls 
early in the quarter, the lagged inflation measure e nds in the last quarter.  For the current quarter, 
the nominal rate is specified as the target fede ral funds rate on the Tealbook publication date.   
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on t he proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimates of the real federa l funds rates using alternative proxies:  lagged 
core PCE inflation, which is used to construct th e actual real federal funds rate shown in the table 
that displays the r* measures; lagged four-quarter headline PCE inflation; and projected four-
quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  The table also displays the 
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate and the average actual real federal funds rate over the next twelve quarters using each of the different 
proxies for expected inflation. 
Proxy used for  
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current val
ue) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Average actual 
real funds rate 
(twelve-quarter 
average) 
Lagged core inflation -0.7 -1.4 -0.4 
Lagged headline 
inflation -1.3 -1.7 -0.6 
Projected headline inflation -1.2 -1.5 -0.5 
Explanatory Notes   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 36 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS  
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧  and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
one quarter ahead (   ݕ௧െ כ ݕ
௧ and  כݕ
௧ାଵ|௧ െ ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ ), and the three-quarter-ahead forecast of annual 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕସכ
௧ାଷ|௧ െ Δݕ௧ାଷ|௧ ), and π* denotes an assumed value 
of policymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  The outcome-based and forecast- based rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the samp le 1988:1-2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion. Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point  increments during the first three quarters of 
1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r*  or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003).     
Outcome-based rule  ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧  
         ൅ 3.66ሺݕെכ ݕ
௧௧ሻ െ 2.72 ሺݕെכ  ݕ
௧ିଵ ௧ିଵሻሿ  
Forecast-based rule  ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧  
         ൅2.29൫כ כݕ 
௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ ൯െ 1.37 ሺݕ௧ିଵെ ݕ௧ିଵሻሿ  
Taylor (1993) rule ݅ ൌ 2 ൅ ߨ൅ 0.5 ሺ ߨെכ  ߨሻ ൅ 0.5 ሺ ݕെכ ݕ
௧ ௧ ௧ ௧௧ሻ  
Taylor (1999) rule ݅ ൌ 2 ൅ ߨ൅ 0.5 ሺ ߨെכ  ߨሻ ൅ ሺ ݕെכ ݕ
௧ ௧ ௧ ௧௧ሻ  
First-difference rule  ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ െכ  ߨ൯൅ 0.5 ሺ߂ସ ݕ௧ାଷ|௧ െ ߂ସכݕ
௧ାଷ|௧ ሻ   
FRB/US  MODEL SIMULATIONS  
Prescriptions from the two empirical rules are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969-2008.  
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL  MARKETS   
The expected funds rate path is based on Eurodollar quotes and implied three-month 
forward rates from  swaps, and the confidence interv als for this path are constructed using prices 
of interest rate caps.  
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 37 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap.  The first-difference rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the estimated forecast-based 
rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-ha nd-side variable. When the Tealbook is published 
early in the quarter, the lines denoted “Previous  Tealbook” report rule prescriptions based on the 
previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in  
the previous quarter. When the Tealbook is publ ished late in the quarter, the lines denoted 
“Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescrip tions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff 
outlook, but jumping off from th e average value for the policy rate thus far this quarter 
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John  B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214.  
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341.  
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary  Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
Explanatory Notes   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 38 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
C. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section entitled “Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are construc ted on a monthly frequency from March 2011 
to December 2020.  The few balance sheet items that are not discussed below are assumed to be 
constant over the projection period at the level observed on February 28, 2011.  The projections 
for all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the tables that 
follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate begins to increase in 
September of 2012.  The balance sheet projections assume that no use of short-term draining tools is necessary to achieve the projected path for the federal funds rate. 
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency MBS, and Agency Debt Securities  
 The assumptions under Alternatives A and B are  
o Purchases of $600 billion of longer-term  Treasury securities between November 
2010 and June 2011.   
o  Principal payments from Treasury securities continue to be reinvested until the 
target federal funds rate lifts off. 
o  Principal payments from agency MBS and agency debt securities are reinvested 
in longer-term Treasury
 securities until the target federal funds rate lifts off. 1    
o All purchases of Treasury
 securities are executed using a maturity distribution 
similar to that curren tly used by the Desk.2  
o Beginning immediately after the first increase in the target federal funds rate, all 
securities are allowed to roll o ff as they mature or prepay. 
o The Federal Reserve begins to sell agency MBS and agency  debt securities six 
months after the assumed date of the first increase in the target federal funds rate.  
1 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflec t interest rates as of March 8, 2011.  
2 Because current and expected near-term intere st rates are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at which these securities are purchased will exceed their 
face value.  Reserve balances will in crease by the market value, whereas securities holdings as reported in 
the H.4.1 release will increase by th e face value; the implied premiums are recorded as “other assets.” 
These premiums decline gradually from $58 billion at th e end of 2012 (2.3 percent of SOMA) to $4 billion 
at the end 2020 (two-tenths of a percent of SOMA). 
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
 
 
  
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 39 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
Holdings of agency securities are reduced over five years and reach zero by the 
end of the first quarter of 2018.   
o For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment  is based on estimates of housing market 
factors from  one of the program’s investment managers and interest rate 
projections from the Tealbook.  The projected rate of prepayment is sensitive to these underlying assumptions. 
 Under Alternative C, a total of $450 billion in longer-term Treasury securities are 
purchased by  the end of the second quarter of 2011.  All other assumptions are the same 
as for Alternatives A and B. 
 In the scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  To maintain 
reserve balances at this level, first the U.S. Treasury’s  Supplementary Financing Account 
(SFA) is reduced to zero.  After the SFA is exhausted, Treasury  bills are purchased.  
Purchases of bills continue until these secu rities comprise one-third of the Federal 
Reserve’s total Treasury security  holdings–about the average level in the period prior to 
the crisis.  Once this level is reached, the Federal Reserve buys notes and bonds in 
addition to bills to maintain an approximate composition of the portfolio of one-third bills and two-thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
  Loans through the Term  Asset -Backed Securities Loan Fac ility (TALF) peaked at $48 
billion in December 2009.  Credit extended thro ugh this facility declines to zero by the 
end of 2015,  reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
  The assets held by  TALF LLC increase to $1.0 billion by the end of 2011 and remain at 
this level through 2014 before declining to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF 
LLC consist of investments of commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. 
Treasury’s initial funding.  In this proj ection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-
backed securities received by the Federal R eserve Bank of New York in connection with 
a decision of a borrower to not repay a TALF loan.  
 The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC, Maid en Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 
decline gradually  over time.  
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
  Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2012.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as projected in the extended Tealbook projection.  
 The U.S. Treasury’s general account (TGA) follows the staff forecast through June 
2011.
3  Immediately after, the TGA slowly drops back to its historical target level of $5 
3 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of 
both the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Treasury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 40 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
billion as it is assumed that the Treasury  will implement a new cash management system  
that allows it to invest funds in excess of  $5 billion.  The TGA remains constant at $5 
billion over the remainder of the forecast period. 
  In the near term , movements in the SFA ba lance reflect constraints that Treasury  faces 
with the debt limit.  We assume the SFA is  reduced to $5 billion by  the end of March 
2011, as the debt ceiling approaches.  Subsequently, under the assumption that Congress 
raises the debt ceiling, the SFA returns gradually to $200 billion by September 2011.  Later in the projection, the SFA is reduced to  ensure that the level of reserve balances 
does not fall below $25 billion. 
  
 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
  In general, increases in the level of assets of the Federal Reserve generate higher levels of 
reserve balances.  Increases in the levels of  other liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or the Treasury’s  general account, like increases in the level of 
Reserve Bank capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability  or capital 
items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 billion, purchases of 
Treasury securities are assumed in order to ma intain that level of reserve balances. 
  In the event that Federal Reserve earnings  fall short of the amount necessary to cover 
operating costs, pay dividends, and equate surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred asset will 
be recorded.  This deferred asset is record ed in lieu of reducing the Reserve Bank’s 
capital and is found on the liability side of the balance sheet as “Interest on Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”  Note that this liability can take negative values 
when earnings fall short of the expenses listed above. 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are only $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is a good 
proxy for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes   
 
 
                                                                                                                                                 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 41 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 42 of 43
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
March 10, 2011
Page 43 of 43
Authorized for Public Release