Prefatory Note 
Th
e attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.   
Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
Content last modified 01/29/2016. 
Class I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions  
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
October 28, 2010 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(This page is intentionally blank.)
   
Monetary Policy Strategies 
The exhibit “Equilibrium Real Federal F unds Rate” displays estimates of short-
run r* , defined as the real federal funds rate th at, if maintained over time, would return 
output to its potential in twel ve quarters.  Compared to the estimates for 2010Q4 made in 
September, most estimates of short-run r* in the current Tealbook have moved up, as 
improved financial conditions—notably the redu ctions in interest rates, increases in 
equity prices, and the decline in the foreign exchange value of the dollar—have produced 
a stronger near-term staff projection for real activity.1  In particular, the Tealbook-
consistent estimate of short-run r* generated by the FRB/US model has increased by 30 
basis points, to minus 1.9 percent, and the EDO model’s Tealbook-consistent r* estimate 
has increased to minus 2.3 percent.  In contrast, the estimates of short-run r* generated 
from both models using their own projecti ons and without conditioning on the staff’s 
financial assumptions have remained unchanged.  The estimates of short-run r* from the 
single-equation model and the small structural model are conditioned on the staff’s 
assessment of recent output gap behavior.  As the staff has revised downwards its 
judgment about the level of potential GDP , both models’ estima tes of short-run r* have 
increased since September, but remain at very low levels. 
As discussed in Part A of the Tealbook, the recent eas ing in financial 
conditions—and therefore most of the improve ment in the staff outlook—is reportedly 
due to market participants’ growing confidence that the Federal Reserve will soon 
undertake further asset purchases.  Net of the effects on asset prices of anticipated further 
Federal Reserve measures, the short-run value of r* implicit in the staff forecast would 
likely remain about unchanged. 
The exhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstraine d Monetary Policy” displays the policy 
prescriptions produced by optimal control si mulations of the FRB/US model based on the 
extended staff baseline projection, which as discussed in Tealbook Book A incorporates 
the effects of $600 billion in additional asset pur chases by the Federal Reserve.  In these 
simulations, policymakers are assumed to pl ace equal weight on keeping core PCE 
                                                 
1 Even in the absence of a shift in the staff outlook, estimates of  r* may change when the Tealbook is 
early in the quarter because the twel ve-quarter horizon covered by the calculation rolls forward one quarter 
relative to the previous Tealbook.  Consequently, the comparisons made here do not refer to the estimates 
for 2010Q3 shown in the last Tealbook, but to estimates for 2010Q4, which were computed in September 
and which are reported in the column labeled “Current Quarter Estimate as of Previous Tealbook.” 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 1 of 46
Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010-10-8-6-4-202468 
-10-8-6-4-202468Percent     
 
Note: Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals.  The actual real federal funds rate shown is based on lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation expectations.
For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A.  Estimates of r* may change at the beginning of a
quarter even when there is no shift in the staff outlook because the twelve quarter horizon covered by the calculation
has rolled forward one quarter.  Therefore, whenever the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, this table includes
a third column labeled "Current Quarter Estimate as of Previous Tealbook."Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation
Range of four model-based estimates
70 Percent confidence interval
90 Percent confidence interval
Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US)
Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures
 
Current Current Quarter Estimate Previous
Tealbook as of Previous Tealbook Tealbook
    
Short-Run Measures    
    
   Single-equation model -2.4 -2.7 -2.4
    
   Small structural model -2.7 -3.1 -2.8
    
   EDO model (0.1 (
0.1 (0.6
    
   FRB/US model -3.1 -3.1 -3.3
    
   Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates    
    
      70 percent confidence interval -3.9 to 0.0   
    
      90 percent confidence interval -4.9 to 1.3   
    
   Tealbook-consistent measures    
    
      EDO model -2.3 -2.8 -3.7
    
      FRB/US model -1.9 -2.2 -2.4
    
Medium-Run Measures    
    
   Single-equation model (1.2 (
1.1 (1.1
    
   Small structural model (1.2 (1.2 (1.2
    
   Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates    
    
      70 percent confidence interval (0.3 to 2.1   
    
      90 percent confidence interval -0.3 to 2.8   
    
   TIPS-based factor model (2.0  2.0
    
Memo    
    
   Actual real federal funds rate -1.2  -1.2
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 2 of 46
Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy
(2 Percent Inflation Goal)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-6-4-202468 
-6-4-202468Percent
 Nominal Federal Funds Rate
Current Tealbook: Constrained
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained
Previous Tealbook: Unconstrained
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-8-6-4-2024 
-8-6-4-2024Percent
 Real Federal Funds Rate
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 201534567891011 
34567891011Percent
 Civilian Unemployment Rate
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20150.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Percent
 Core PCE Inflation
Four-quarter average
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 3 of 46
   
inflation close to a 2 percent inflation goal, on keeping unemployment close to the 
effective NAIRU, and on minimizing changes in th e federal funds rate.  As has been true 
for some time, the simulations indicate that optimal policy remains importantly 
constrained by the effective lower bound on nominal interest rates.  With the lower-
bound constraint imposed, the federal funds rate does not begin to rise appreciably until mid-2014, the unemployment rate remains above the staff’s estimate of the effective 
NAIRU until early 2014, and inflation stays pers istently below target until the end of 
2015 (black solid line), which is very similar to the trajectories shown in the September 
Tealbook.
 2  But if the nominal funds rate could fall below zero, optimal policy would 
call for the nominal funds rate to declin e to around minus 3½ percent by the fourth 
quarter of 2011 (blue dashed line).  Reflec ting the recent improvement in financial 
conditions and an upward revision in the eff ective NAIRU, the unconstrained path for the 
funds rate is on average a bit higher than  in the previous Tealbook, while delivering 
similar outcomes for unemployment and inflation.  If the unconstrained policy were 
feasible, inflation would reach the 2 per cent target by mid-2015 and the unemployment 
rate would be brought down to the staff estim ate of the NAIRU more rapidly than in the 
constrained case. 
As shown in the exhibit, “The Policy Ou tlook in an Uncertain Environment,” the 
expected path for the federal funds rate imp lied by market quotes and the prescriptions 
from the staff’s estimated outcome-based policy rule stay below 25 basis points at least until the second half of 2012.  The staff’s estimated outcome-based policy rule prescribes raising the federal funds rate above its eff ective lower bound after the fourth quarter of 
2012, which is one quarter earlier than in th e September Tealbook; this revision reflects 
the stronger outlook for real GDP and a small downward revision to the level of potential 
GDP in the staff projection.  The expected fe deral funds rate path implied by financial 
market data has shifted down on net over the intermeeting period.  The distribution of the 
federal funds rate at future dates derived from option prices suggests that market 
participants consider it very unlikely that the federal funds rate will rise above its current 
target range before the begi nning of 2012—about one quarter la ter than in the previous 
Tealbook.  While this timing is similar to th e baseline path simulated from the outcome-
based rule, market participants appear to  perceive much less uncertainty around this 
outcome than is suggested by the model simulations with the outcome-based rule.  Over 
                                                 
2 Reflecting the transitory effects of extended une mployment benefits, the staff’s estimate of the 
effective NAIRU falls from 6½ percen t in 2010Q4 to 6 per cent by 2012Q4, and then further until it reaches 
5¼ percent by the end of 2015. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 4 of 46
The Policy Outlook in an Uncertain Environment
2010 2011 2012 2013 20140123456789 
0123456789Percent
 
Note: In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers' long-run inflation objective is
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule
Note: In both panels, the dark and light shading represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively.
Financial market quotes are as of October 27.Current Tealbook
Previous Tealbook
Staff assumption
2010 2011 2012 2013 20140123456789 
0123456789Percent
 Information from Financial Markets
Current Tealbook
Previous Tealbook
 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules
 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy
  
2010Q4 2011Q1
2010Q4 2011Q1
      
Taylor (1993) rule 0.13 0.13  -0.81 -0.82
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.92 -1.00
      
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13  -4.23 -4.21
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -4.51 -4.59
      
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13  -0.51 -1.31
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.70 -1.64
      
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13  -0.54 -1.28
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.71 -1.60
      
First-difference rule 0.13 0.17  0.01 0.05
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.19 -0.34
Memo
2010Q4 2011Q1
    
Staff assumption  0.13
0.13
    
Fed funds futures  0.17 0.13
    
Median expectation of primary dealers  0.13 0.13
    
Blue Chip forecast (October 1, 2010) 0.20 0.20
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 5 of 46
   
the remainder of the forecast horizon, the expect ed path for the federal funds rate implied 
by financial market data is a bout 25 basis points lower than in  September.  Following this 
path, the funds rate rises gradually to about 1½ percen t by the end of 2014, which is 
markedly lower than the 3½ percent level of  the funds rate prescribed by the outcome-
based rule.   
The table in the lower panel of the exhi bit provides near-term prescriptions from 
simple policy rules for the nominal federal funds rate.  As shown in the left-hand 
columns, all of the prescriptions remain at the effective lower bound.  The right-hand 
columns show the prescriptions that would be implied by these rules in the absence of the 
lower bound.  With the exception of the firs t-difference rule, all unconstrained rule 
prescriptions continue to be negative, but are somewhat higher than in the September 
Tealbook, reflecting the staff’s reduced estima te of the output gap over the near term. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 6 of 46
 
 Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents four policy altern atives—labeled A, B, C, and D—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  Under Alternativ es A and B, the Committee would provide 
more monetary policy stimulus by increasing the Federal Reserve’s holdings of longer-
term securities.  All of the alternatives main tain the existing target for the federal funds 
rate.  Alternative A includes explicit forwar d guidance about the period over which the 
funds rate is likely to stay at its effective lower bound.  Alternatives B and C maintain the 
“extended period” language as part of the forward guidance about the target rate.  
Alternative D would signal that the pe riod of extraordinary monetary policy 
accommodation is likely to come to an end in the near future.  As always, the Committee 
could mix components of the various alterna tives to construct its desired statement. 
The statement under Alternative B would characterize the information received 
over the intermeeting period as confirming that  the economic recovery “continues to be 
slow.”  The statement would reflect the Committee’s judgment that “the unemployment 
rate is elevated,” and that measures of underlying inflation are “somewhat low,” relative 
to the levels that the Committee considers to be consistent with its dual mandate, and that 
“progress towards its objectives has been unacceptably slow.”  To “promote a stronger 
pace of economic recovery,” the FOMC would expand its holdings of securities by maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting the principal payments from agency 
securities and purchasing an additional $600 bi llion of Treasury securities by the end of 
the second quarter of 2011.  The statement w ould indicate that the expansion of the 
balance sheet would average a bout $75 billion per month; based on projections of the 
amounts of principal payments  that will be reinvested, total monthly purchases of 
Treasury securities under this alternativ e would likely be just over $100 billion per 
month.  In addition, the Committ ee would state that it “will employ its policy tools as 
necessary to support the economic  recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels 
consistent with its mandate,” to suggest that any near-term change to policy is more 
likely to be an increase in s ecurities holdings than a reduc tion.  To reflect a flexible 
approach to the implementation of its stra tegy, however, the Committee would state that 
it “will regularly review the pace of its secu rities purchases and the overall size of the 
asset-purchase program in light of incoming information and will adjust the program as 
needed” to achieve its objectives. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 7 of 46
   
 
 Under Alternative A, the Committee would characterize economic conditions and 
the outlook as it would under A lternative B, but it would ta ke more substantial policy 
action, increasing the Federal Re serve’s holdings of longer-term securities by $1 trillion 
by the end of 2011.  The forward guidance for the federal funds rate would be more 
explicit and state that the Comm ittee expects to keep the target  for the federal funds rate 
at its current level “at least until mid-2012, so long as:  The unemployment rate remains 
elevated; the Committee continues to anticipate that such a policy stance will not lead to 
rates of inflation in the intermediate term th at exceed the levels that it deems consistent 
with its mandate; and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored.”  The 
statement would also note that the Comm ittee is prepared to provide additional 
accommodation as needed to “strengthen the economic recovery and move inflation” 
back toward levels the Committee views as consistent with its objectives. 
Under Alternative C, the Committee would not expand the size of its securities 
holdings, but would signal that such an act ion remains possible.  The statement would 
characterize incoming data as confirming that  the pace of economic recovery “continues 
to be slow.”  The Committee would state that it will mainta in the current target for the 
federal funds rate for an extended period a nd continue its policy  of reinvesting the 
proceeds of principal payments into Treasury securities.  By noting that the Committee is 
“prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed,” the statement would imply 
that further policy action could be take n depending on economic developments.   
Alternative D would state th at the “economic recovery is proceeding” and note 
that “the Committee anticipates a gradual return  to higher levels of resource utilization in 
a context of price stability.”  The statement would signal that the Co mmittee is likely to 
begin removing monetary accommodation fairly soon.  While maintaining the target for 
the federal funds rate at its current level, the Committee would indicate that it anticipated 
the rate staying at “low levels” for “some time” rather than at “exceptionally low levels” 
for “an extended period” as in the previous statement.  In addition, the Committee would 
state that its policy of reinve sting proceeds of principal repayments would be continued 
only “for the time being,” suggesting that this policy was likely to end soon.   
 A table summarizing the key components of each alternative appears on 
the next page, followed by complete draf t statements and the arguments for each 
alternative.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 8 of 46
   
 
 Table 1:  Overview of Alternatives for the November 3 FOMC Statement 
 
Key 
Components September 
Statement November Alternatives 
A B C D 
Economic Activity  
Recent 
Developments pace of recovery has 
slowed in recent months pace of recovery continues to  be slow pace of recovery 
continues to be 
slow economic recovery 
is proceeding 
Labor  Market pace of recovery in employment has slowed; 
high unemployment; 
employers remain 
reluctant to add to 
payrolls pace of recovery continues to be slow; high unemployment; employers remain 
reluctant to add to payrolls; the 
unemployment rate is elevated pace of recovery continues to be 
slow; high 
unemployment; 
employers remain 
reluctant to add to 
payrolls  
n.a. 
Outlook gradual return to higher resource utilization w/ 
price stability; pace of 
recovery likely to be 
modest in near term  Committee anticipates a gradual return to 
higher resource utilization w/price 
stability gradual return to 
higher resource 
utilization w/ price 
stability; pace of 
recovery likely to 
remain modest in 
near term  the Committee 
anticipates a 
gradual return to 
higher resource 
utilization w/price 
stability 
Financial Conditions 
Recent Developments bank lending has 
continued to contract, but 
at a reduced rate  n.a. bank lending has 
continued to contract, 
but at a reduced rate  The contraction in 
bank lending has 
slowed 
Inflation 
Recent Developments underlying inflation currently below levels  
consistent with dual 
mandate longer-term expectations stable, but underlying inflation has trended lower; 
underlying inflation low relative to rates 
consistent with dual mandate underlying inflation currently below 
levels consistent 
with dual mandate n.a. 
substantial slack; stable inflation expectations longer-term expectations stable substantial slack; stable inflation 
expectations n.a. 
Outlook subdued for some time 
before rising to mandate-
consistent levels Committee anticipates a gradual return to 
higher resource utilization w/price 
stability…but progress toward its 
objectives has been unacceptably slow subdued for some time before rising 
toward mandate-
consistent levels gradual return to higher resource 
utilization in a 
context of price 
stability 
 
(continued on next page)  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 9 of 46
   
Table 1:  Overview of Alternatives for the November 3 FOMC Statement  
(continued)  
Key 
Components  September  
Statement  November Alternatives 
A B C D 
Target Federal Funds Rate 
Intermeeting 
Period 0 to ¼ percent 0 to ¼ percent 
Forward 
Guidance  exceptionally low levels for an extended period at least until mid-2012, so long as: 
unemployment is 
elevated; inflation is 
expected to remain 
consistent with 
mandate; and 
inflation 
expectations 
anchored exceptionally low levels for an 
extended period exceptionally low 
levels for an 
extended period low levels for some 
time 
SOMA Portfolio Policy 
Approach keep constant:   reinvest 
principal payments in Treasuries increase:   maintain 
reinvestment policy; purchase additional 
$1 trillion of 
Treasuries through 
the end of 2011 increase:  
maintain 
reinvestment 
policy; purchase 
additional $600 
billion of 
Treasuries through 
the 2011 Q2; 
regularly review 
program keep constant:   
maintain existing 
reinvestment policy keep constant:  
for the time being, maintain existing 
reinvestment policy 
Future Policy Action 
Approach provide additional accommodation, if 
needed provide additional 
accommodation, as 
needed employ tools as 
necessary provide additional accommodation, if 
needed gradually remove 
accommodation  
 
  
 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 10 of 46
   
 
 SEPTEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August indicates that 
the pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in recent months. Household 
spending is increasing gradually, but remains constrained by high unemployment, modest 
income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit. Business spending on equipment and 
software is rising, though less rapidly than  earlier in the year, while investment in 
nonresidential structures continues to be weak. Em ployers remain reluctant to add to payrolls. 
Housing starts are at a depressed level. Bank lending has continued to contract, but at a 
reduced rate in recent months. The Committee antic ipates a gradual return to higher levels of 
resource utilization in a context of price stab ility, although the pace of economic recovery is 
likely to be modest in the near term. 
 
2. Measures of underlying inflation are currently at levels somewhat below those the Committee 
judges most consistent, over the longer run,  with its mandate to promote maximum 
employment and price stability. With substantia l resource slack continuing to restrain cost 
pressures and longer-term inflation expectations st able, inflation is likely to remain subdued 
for some time before rising to levels the Co mmittee considers consistent with its mandate. 
 
3. The Committee will maintain the ta rget range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and 
continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation e xpectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally 
low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period. The Committee also will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting pr incipal payments from its securities holdings. 
 
4. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and is prepared to provide additional acco mmodation if needed to support the economic 
recovery and to return inflation, over tim e, to levels consiste nt with its mandate. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 11 of 46
   
 
 NOVEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in  August  September 
indicates  confirms  that the pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in recent 
months  continues to be slow .  Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains 
constrained by high unemployment, modest inco me growth, lower housing wealth, and tight 
credit.  Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though less rapidly than 
earlier in the year, while investment in nonresidential structures continues to be weak.  Employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls.  Housing starts
 continue to be  are at a 
depressed  level . Bank lending has continued to contract, but at  a reduced rate in recent 
months. The Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization in 
a context of price stability, although the pace of economic recovery is likely to be modest in the near term.  
 Longer-term inflation expectations h ave remained stable, but measures of 
  underlying inflation have trended lower in recent quarters.
 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate is elevated, and  
measures of underlying inflation are currently at levels  somewhat  low below those , relative 
to levels that  the Committee judges  to be  most  consistent , over the longer run,  with its  dual 
mandate.   to promote maximum employment and price stability. With substantial resource 
slack continuing to restrain cost pressures and longer -term inflation expectations stable, 
inflation is likely to remain subdued for so me time before rising to levels the Committee 
considers consistent with its mandate.   Although the Committee anticipates a gradual 
return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability, it judges that  
progress toward its objectives has been unacceptably slow.  
 
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic r ecov ery and to return inflation, over time, to 
levels consistent with its mandate, the Commi ttee decided today to expand its holdings 
of securities.  The Committee  also will maintain its existing polic y of reinvesting principal 
payments from its securities holdings  and intends to purchase an additional $1 trillion of 
longer-term Treasury securities by the end of 2011, an average pace of approximately 
$70 billion of purchases per month .   
 
4. The Committee  expects to  will maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent at least until mid-2012, so long as:  The unemployment rate remains elevated; 
the Committee continues to anticipate that su ch a policy stance will not lead to rates of 
inflation in the intermediate term that exceed the levels that it deems consistent with its mandate; and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored
.  and continues to 
anticipate that economic conditions,  including low rates of resource utilization, subdued 
inflation trends, and stable inflation expect ations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low 
levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period.  
 
5. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and is prepared to provide additional accommodation  if as needed to  support  strengthen  the 
economic recover
y and  to return  move  inflation, over time, to le vels consistent with its 
mandate.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 12 of 46
   
 
 NOVEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August  September 
indicates  confirms  that the pace of recovery in output  and employment  has slowed in recent 
months  continues to be slow .  Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains 
constrained by high unemployment, modest inco me growth, lower housing wealth, and tight 
credit.  Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though less rapidly than 
earlier in the year, while investment in nonresidential structures continues to be weak.  Employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls.  Housing starts
 continue to be  are at a  
depressed level . Bank lending has continued to contract , but at a reduced rate in recent 
months. Th e Committee anticipates a gradual return to hi gher levels of resource utilization in 
a context of price stability, although the pace of economic recovery is likely to be modest in the near term.  
 Longer-term inflation expectations h ave remained stable, but measures of 
underlying inflation have trended lower in recent quarters.  
 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee se eks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Currently, the unemployment rate is elevated, and  
measures of underlying inflation are currently at levels  somewhat  low below, relative to 
levels that  the Committee judges  to be  most  consistent,  over the longer run, with its dual 
mandate.   to promote maximum employment and price stability . With substantial resource 
slack continuing to restrain cost pressures and longer -term inflation expectations stable, 
inflation is likely to remain subdued for so me time before rising to levels the Committee 
considers consistent with its mandate.  Although the Committee anticipates a gradual 
return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability, it judges that  
progress toward its objectives has been unacceptably slow.   
 
3. To promote a stronger pace of economic recov ery  and to return inflation, over time, to 
levels consistent with its mandate, the Commi ttee decided today to expand its holdings 
of securities.  The Committee  also will maintain its existing polic y of reinvesting principal 
payments from its securities holdings and intends to purchase an additional $600 billion of 
longer-term Treasury securities by the e nd of the second quarter of 2011, an average 
pace of $75 billion of purchases per month .   
 
4. The Committee will maintain the ta rget range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and 
continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation e xpectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally 
low levels for the federal funds  rate for an extended period. 
 
5. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onom ic outlook and financial developments 
and will employ its policy tools as necessary  is prepared to provide additional 
accommodation if needed  to support the economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, 
to levels consistent  with its mandate.  In particular, the Committee will regularly review  
the pace of its securities purchases and the overall size of the asset-purchase program in light of incoming information and will adju st the program as needed to best foster 
maximum employment and price stability.  
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 13 of 46
   
 
 NOVEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August  September 
indicates  confirms  that the pace of recovery in output  and employment  has slowed in recent 
months  continues to be slow .  Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains 
constrained by high unemployment, modest inco me growth, lower housing wealth, and tight 
credit.  Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though less rapidly than 
earlier in the year, while investment in nonresidential structures continues to be weak.  Employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls.  Housing starts are at a depressed level.  Bank 
lending has continued to contract, but at a re duced rate in recent months.  The Committee 
anticipates a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price 
stability, although the pace of economic recovery is likely to
 be remain  modest in the near 
term. 
 
2. Measures of underlying inflation are currently at levels somewhat below those the Committee 
judges most consistent, over the longer run,  with its mandate to promote maximum 
employment and price stability.  With substan tial resource slack continuing to restrain cost 
pressures and longer-term inflation expectations st able, inflation is likely to remain subdued 
for some time before rising to levels the Co mmittee considers consistent with its mandate. 
 
3. The Committee will maintain the ta rget range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and 
continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation e xpectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally 
low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period.  The Committee also will 
maintain  continue the  its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities 
holdings  to maintain the size of its securities holdings at current levels . 
 
4. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and is prepared to provide additional acco mmodation if needed to support the economic 
recovery and to return inflation, over tim e, to levels consiste nt with its mandate. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 14 of 46
   
 
 NOVEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE D 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August  September 
indicates that the  pace of economic  recovery  in output and employment has slowed in recent 
months  is proceeding . Household  income and spending  are is increasing  gradually, but 
remains constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, 
and tight credit ., and business spending on equipment and software is rising. , though less  
rapidly than earlier in the year, while investme nt in nonresidential structures continues to be 
weak. Employers remain reluctant to add to pa yrolls. Housing starts are at a depressed level.   
The contraction in  bank lending has  slowed  continued to contract , but at a reduced rate in 
recent months . The Committee anticipates a gradual re turn to higher levels of resource 
utilization in a context of price stability , although  the pace of economic recovery is likely to 
be modest in the near term . 
 
Measures of unde rlying inflation are currently at leve ls somewhat below those the Committee 
judges most consistent, over the longer run,  with its mandate to promote maximum 
employment and price stability. With substantia l resource slack continuing to restrain cost 
pressures and longer-term inflation expectations stable, inflation is likely to remain subdued for some time before rising to levels the Co mmittee considers consistent with its mandate.
 
 
2. The Committee  will decided to  maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to  anticipate s that economic conditions , incl uding low rates of resource 
utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations,  are likely to warrant 
exceptionally  low levels for the federal funds rate for  an extended period  some time .  For the 
time being,  the Committee also will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal 
payments from its securities holdings. 
 
3. The Committee will continue to monitor the ec onomic outlook and financial developments 
and is prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed to support the  economic 
recovery  and to return inflation, over time, to  levels consistent with its mandate  anticipates 
that it will gradually begin to remove policy accommodation at the appropriate time to 
promote maximum employment and price stability . 
 
 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 15 of 46
   
 
 THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
The Committee may see the economic recovery as too weak to deliver acceptable 
progress toward its objectives of maximu m employment and price stability and, as a 
result, may judge that additional monetary po licy accommodation is appropriate.  In that 
case, the Committee might choose an announcemen t along the lines of that provided in 
Alternative B. 
Although members’ modal outlook for th e economy may not have changed 
materially since the September meeting, great er certainty that economic performance will 
be subpar and result in missing both aspects of the dual mandate for quite some time may 
be seen as justifying additional policy action at this time.  The staff projects that the 
output gap will remain sizable through the e nd of 2012 and beyond and that inflation will 
remain noticeably below levels that the Committee considers consistent with the dual 
mandate.  If the Committee is inclined to ta ke action at this meeting, it may wish to 
indicate an intention to e xpand its holdings of longer-term securities by purchasing 
additional longer-term Treasury securities.  Policymakers may prefer to purchase Treasury securities instead of additional mortgage-backed securities to avoid the 
possibility of being seen as allocating credit  to a particular sector of the economy and 
because they ultimately want to move to a Treasury-only portfolio.  The Committee may 
also want to indicate that it is willing to provide additional policy accommodation in the 
future if necessary to suppor t the economic recovery and re turn inflation to levels 
consistent with its objectives, while maintaini ng flexibility in the timing and extent of its 
purchases.   
Some members may see an even larger  purchase program as likely to be 
necessary.  Nonetheless, they may not wish to  commit to too large a step at the November 
meeting because the effect of increases in  the balance sheet are not understood with 
precision, and the amount of stimulus the economy will need is similarly difficult to assess.  As a result, a somewhat incremental approach in the direc tion of the ultimately 
anticipated degree of policy easi ng may be seen as appropriate so as to retain flexibility 
in the face of uncertainty and to help th e public understand the conditionality of the 
Committee’s policy decisions.  A more moderate  policy move at this time may also be 
attractive if the expansion of  securities holdings raises some members’ concerns about 
the Committee’s ability to execute a smooth exit from policy accommodation.  Also, a pace of approximately $75 billion per month of additional purchases, on top of the 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 16 of 46
   
 
 reinvestment of proceeds of principal paymen ts from current securities holdings, may be 
about the fastest rate of purchases that can be made without riski ng adverse effects in 
markets.  As a result, some members may wo rry that announcing a larg er total quantity of 
purchases may be seen as a commitment to accommodative policy for a longer period of 
time than is desirable, given the possibi lity that incoming data may change the 
Committee’s assessment of the appropriate policy stance over coming months. 
The statement in Alternative B would underscore the commitment of the 
Committee to its dual mandate, th ereby helping to anchor infl ation expectations.  Because 
the statement would note that the Committ ee sees unemployment as elevated and 
inflation as somewhat low relative to levels consistent with its objec tives, it may solidify 
the views of market participants that po licy accommodation will remain in place for a 
significant period of time.  The statement would further clarify the Committee’s intentions by being explicit about both the size of the expansion of the balance sheet and 
the pace of purchases to be undertaken.  By not ing that it is prepared  to use its policy 
tools as necessary to support the economic recovery and return inflation to levels 
consistent with its mandate, the Committee would suggest that the next adjustment to its 
balance sheet policy would more likely be a further expansion than a contraction.  The 
statement would not be an unconditional co mmitment, however, because the Committee 
would indicate that it will “regularly review” its asset- purchase program, and make 
adjustments based on incoming information.   
Responses from the Desk’s latest survey of primary dealers suggest that market 
participants believe the third quarter of 2012 to be the most likely date when the federal 
funds rate will begin to increase.  In addition, there appears to be a strong expectation that 
the Committee will announce an expansion in the balance sheet at this meeting, with the median expectation of a cumulative increase in securities holdings of $1 trillion over a 
twelve-month period.  A statement along the li nes of Alternative B would probably not 
greatly surprise market partic ipants.  The $600 billion figure is  likely a little more than 
most market participan ts expect at this meeting, and in  recent days, longer-term rates 
have risen somewhat, possibly reflecting some paring back of investors’ expectations for 
additional purchases as well as an increase in  uncertainty regarding the implementation of 
such purchases.  On the other hand, the announc ed pace of purchases may be a bit on the 
low side of expectations, and the referen ce to reviewing the pace of purchases could 
suggest to some market particip ants that the ultimate level of  purchases could be less than 
expected.  On balance, market interest rate s would likely decline a little, while equity 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 17 of 46
   
 
 prices would probably rally some, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar would 
move lower.1, 2  
In addition to an expansion of the balance sheet, policy makers may be inclined to 
include more explicit guidance about the antici pated path for the fede ral funds rate, such 
as referring to a specific date as under Altern ative A.  As discussed below, such a choice 
may not change appreciably market participants ’ expectations about th e future path of the 
federal funds rate, but in the context of an announcement of  further policy 
accommodation, it would likely reinforce mark et participants’ confidence in the 
Committee’s intent to foster financia l conditions in line with its goals.  
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
Policymakers may believe that without fa irly aggressive policy action soon, both 
employment and inflation will likely be below the Committee’s objectives for these 
variables for a very substantial period.  Mo reover, they may be worried that very low 
inflation poses significant risks to the r ecovery.  If so, the Committee may wish to 
provide more substantial policy accommodation at this mee ting, as in Alternative A. 
Committee members may, like the staff, exp ect the economic recovery to remain 
quite gradual, even with the additional $600 billion expansion of the Federal Reserve’s 
balance sheet envisioned in Alternative B.  In the staff’s baseline projection, the 
unemployment rate does not fall below 9 pe rcent until 2012, and inflation remains below 
levels that the Committee sees as consiste nt with its objectives for much longer.  
Members may see such outcomes as unacceptable.  Moreover, some policymakers may 
be skeptical of the anticipated acceleration in economic activity that the staff has 
projected for next year, and may instead an ticipate a slower ec onomic expansion for 
some time, along the lines of the “Weaker r ecovery” scenario.  In addition, members may 
judge that in the current environment, very low inflation heightens the risk that adverse 
shocks could lead to deflation and a protracted period of extremely poor economic 
                                                 
1 Clearly, the market reaction to th e Committee’s decision could also be importantly influenced by 
information provided by the Chairman in a press briefi ng or press conference, were such an event to be 
held following the FOMC meeting.   
2 The box in Tealbook Book A Domestic titled “Alte rnative Balance Sheet Scenarios” notes that with 
financial markets currently pricing in about $1 trillion in cumulative purchases, if the Committee were to 
decide to limit additional purchases to the $600 billion announced at this meeting, over time longer-term 
interest rates and the foreign exchange value of the dollar would likely rise some and stock prices would 
decline.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 18 of 46
   
 
 performance, such as in the “Greater Disinflation” scenari o.  Although inflation 
expectations have remained fairly stable th us far, policymakers may worry that further 
disinflation could push those expectations downward and possibly raise the chances of 
deflation.  In such a circumstance, the Co mmittee may believe that only particularly 
assertive policy action will convince markets and the public that the Committee desires a 
more rapid decline in the unemployment rate and a timely return of inflation to levels it 
considers most consistent with its dual mandate.  By announcing an additional $1 trillion 
of purchases of longer-term Treasury securities, the Committee would send a clear signal 
that it sought more rapid progre ss toward its ob jectives.   
The Committee may view the risks associ ated with such an expansion of the 
balance sheet to be acceptably low when comp ared to the anticipated benefits.  Small-
scale operations of two short-term reserve- management tools, the Term Deposit Facility 
and reverse repurchase agreements with an ex panded set of counter parties, are ongoing.  
These operations may give policymakers confidence that even with a substantial further 
expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance sh eet and the associated increase in reserve 
balances, the Federal Reserve will be able  to exit smoothly from its extraordinarily 
accommodative stance of policy when appropriate. 
The Committee may also wish to communicat e more explicitly its expectation for 
the path of the federal funds rate by stating th at it expects that the current level of the 
target rate will remain in place “at least unt il mid-2012.”  The statement would not be an 
unconditional commitment, however, because  the Committee would note that it might 
adjust the setting for the federal funds rate  if unemployment fell substantially, if the 
Committee’s projections for inflation over the medium term exceeded levels it considers to be consistent with its dual mandate, or if  inflation expectations rose appreciably.  
Given the expectations for the policy path currently implied by market quotes, such a 
statement would be unlikely to change appreciably investors’ modal forecasts of the funds rate path.  Nevertheless, making such  an explicit statemen t would clarify the 
FOMC’s intentions regarding future adjustme nts to the federal funds rate, and market 
rates could decline some what in response.   
Although investors anticipate  that the Federal Reserv e will ultimately purchase 
something like an additional $1 trillion or mo re of longer-term Treasur y securities over a 
twelve-month period, an announcement at this  meeting of such a large program of 
purchases would come as a surprise.  Longer-term yields would pr obably fall noticeably, 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 19 of 46
   
 
 stock prices would likely move up, and the fo reign exchange value of the dollar would 
likely decline moderately.  If the large size of the announced  purchases led investors to 
anticipate even more policy accommodation was likely to be forthcoming, the movement 
in asset prices could be large. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
The incoming data over the intermeeting pe riod were mixed and, as a result, the 
Committee may not be convinced that addi tional policy accommodation is warranted, 
especially if members perceive an expansion of the balance sheet as  entailing significant 
risks.  Instead, the Committee may wish to accu mulate more information in order to form 
a clearer view of the likely tr ajectory of output and inflati on before deciding whether to 
take additional policy action, and as a result may be inclined to issue a statement along 
the lines of that in Alternative C. 
The Committee may believe that, on net, th e data received over the past several 
months confirms that the pace of economic recovery has slowed relative to the spring.  
Nevertheless, the Committee may continue to anticipate that the economic recovery will 
pick up steam next year.  Indeed, some me mbers may see some risks that the economy 
could accelerate substantially more than is projected, as in the “Faster Recovery” 
scenario, and, as a result, wish to have greater certainty about  the outlook before 
providing additional accommodation.  For now, in flation expectations appear to remain 
well anchored despite the current low leve ls of underlying inflation.  On balance, 
therefore, the Committee’s vi ews on the prospects for economic growth and inflation 
over the medium term may not have change d appreciably since September, and the 
Committee may be uncertain whether, give n the lags with which monetary policy 
influences the economy, additi onal accommodation is likely to be helpful.  Even if the 
Committee sees some benefit to easing the stance of policy, it may wish for more 
conclusive evidence that the economic recove ry will remain tepid before engaging in 
further action.  As a result, policymakers may not see the thre shold for undertaking 
further policy accommodation as having been met, and under Alternative C, the statement 
would indicate that the “Committee anticipates  a gradual return to  higher levels of 
resource utilization in a context of price stability, although the pace of economic recovery 
is likely to remain modest in the near term.” 
Even if policymakers perceive the economic outlook to be weaker than they 
would prefer, they may worry that the lik ely benefit of additi onal monetary policy 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 20 of 46
   
 
 accommodation is not as large as the associated risks.  In contrast to the situation during 
the first round of asset purcha ses, markets are functioning fair ly well, so some Committee 
members may be skeptical that additional purch ases would have an appreciable effect on 
markets.  Other policymakers may worry that  a further expansion in the size of the 
Federal Reserve’s balance sheet could push up private-sector inflation expectations either 
because the public may question the Federal Re serve’s ability to exit smoothly from an 
even more accommodative stance of policy or because additional purchases of Treasury 
securities may kindle fears of monetization of  the federal debt.  In addition, given the 
recent declines in the foreign exchange value of the dollar, members may see a risk that 
additional policy action at this time could lead  to a sharp and perhaps disorderly further 
decline.  
On balance, members may view the current outlook for the economy, though 
disappointing, as about the best  that can be achieved under the circumstances, but they 
may be prepared to act in the future if conditions deteriorate.  Members may see the 
current array of risks to the economy as being asymmetric; downward surprises to 
inflation, for example, may be seen as significantly more costly than upward surprises, 
given the current low level of  inflation.  Consequently, th e Committee may judge, against 
the backdrop of a lackluster recovery, that retaining the “extende d period” language in 
the statement remains appropria te, and that the final paragr aph of the statement should 
continue to indicate that the Committ ee “is prepared to provide additional 
accommodation if needed to support the economic recovery and to return inflation, over 
time, to levels consistent with its mandate.”  
In light of current market expectations for additional policy easing at this meeting, 
a statement along the lines of that  in Alternative C would come as a significant surprise to 
market participants and, as a result, longer-term interest rate s would back up, stock prices 
fall, and the foreign exchange value of the do llar would increase.  The indication that the 
Committee might provide additional accommodation going forward could limit these market reactions, but they would likely be sign ificant nevertheless.  The rise in longer-
term nominal rates might be damped to the ex tent that the policy d ecision led investors to 
lower their inflation expectations.   
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE D 
If policymakers viewed the incoming data as largely conforming to their 
expectations that the economic recovery is continuing and will strengthen over time, and 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 21 of 46
   
 
 if they wished to signal that they were  likely to begin withdrawing the current 
extraordinary amount of mone tary policy accommodation before long, they might issue a 
statement such as that in Alternative D.  If Committee members believe that the economy 
is likely to accelerate next year, they may worry that th e current size of the Federal 
Reserve’s balance sheet could make it difficult  to tighten policy as quickly as may be 
required to avoid an increase in inflation as th e recovery strengthens, especially if the size 
of balance sheet itself directly  affects inflation expectations.  Under this alternative, the 
Committee would characterize the economic r ecovery as “proceeding” and would note 
that it “anticipates a gradual return to higher le vels of resource utiliz ation in a context of 
price stability.” 
Committee members may be concerned about the high level of unemployment but 
may judge that, given the nature of the r ecession, a good deal of current joblessness 
reflects structural misallocations in the economy and that such issues cannot be 
effectively addressed by moneta ry policy, perhaps as suggested  in the “Lower Potential” 
scenario.   
The language in Alternative D would position the Committee to begin removing 
policy accommodation before long.  Issuance in bond markets has been robust and the 
contraction in bank loans, which had been ra pid for over a year, has slowed, on balance, 
in recent months.  As a result, members may worry that the current low level of the 
federal funds rate has the potential to resu lt in a surprisingly fast rebound in credit 
growth, which could ultimately spur a rise  in inflation expect ations and in actual 
inflation.  Although the target for the federal funds rate would be maintained under this 
alternative, the forward guidance would indicate that economic conditions warranted “low levels” of the federal funds rate for “some time,” instead of the “exceptionally low 
levels” for an “extended period” indicated in  the September statement.  The Committee 
would also state that its polic y of reinvesting the proceeds from principal repayments on 
its current holdings of securities would be maintained only “for the time being,” 
suggesting that the Committee might discontinue this policy before long. 
Besides the near-term economic outlook, me mbers may also be concerned about 
the possible unintended conseque nces of signaling that the ta rget for the federal funds 
rate will be kept at its current  level for a very long period of time.  Members may believe 
that the current statement language could lead  to a buildup of macroeconomic or financial 
imbalances.  For example, inflation expecta tions could become un moored, leading to a 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 22 of 46
   
 
 persistent and costly increase in  actual inflation, or investors, in an effort to obtain higher 
yields could take on risks that  they do not understand, putting fi nancial stability at risk as 
the economy recovers and interest rates rise.  The Committee may view the economic 
costs associated with such outcomes as likely to be higher than thos e that would result 
from an earlier but more gradual removal of policy accommodation, suggesting that the 
adoption of Alternative D may best manage these longer-term risks. 
The announcement of Alternative D would completely surprise market 
participants.  As noted above, investors an ticipate the announcemen t of a substantial 
increase in the Federal Reserve’s balance shee t at this meeting, so an indication that the 
Federal Reserve was instead moving toward removing accommodation would likely lead them to re-examine their expectations both for the path of policy and for the Federal 
Reserve’s portfolio, leading to a marked rise in  interest rates at all horizons.  The foreign 
exchange value of the dollar would likely increase, and equity markets would sell off 
sharply.   
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 23 of 46
   
 
 LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE 
The staff has prepared four scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy alternatives presente d above:  a baseline scenario corresponding 
to Alternative B, and other scenarios correspondi ng to Alternatives A, C, and D. 
Projections under each scenario  are based on assumptions about each component of the 
balance sheet.  Details of these assumpti ons as well as projections for each major 
component of the balance sheet can be found in Explanatory Note C.  
 
Under the baseline scenario, the FOMC a nnounces an expansion of its holdings of 
longer-term Treasury securities of $600 bill ion (at an average pace of about $75 billion 
per month) at the November meeting, and by the middle of next year the size of the 
balance sheet peaks at about $2.8 trillion.  Over  the following year a nd a half, the size of 
the balance sheet edges down slightly as cred it extensions are repaid, and then declines 
more rapidly through 2015 as securities ma ture, are prepaid, or are sold.  Under 
Alternative A, an additional $1 trillion of longer-term Treasury securities are purchased 
by the end of next year, and the balance shee t expands to reach a peak of $3.3 trillion in 
December 2011.  Over the following year, the si ze of the balance sheet declines slightly 
as credit extensions are repaid; thereafter, th e size of the balance sheet contracts more 
quickly as securities mature and eventually re turns to the total asset path projected under 
the baseline by September 2016.  Under Alternatives C and D, only the proceeds from 
principal payments of agency securities are reinvested in Treasury securities; in these 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 24 of 46
   
 
 alternatives, the balance sheet immediately begins a modest pace of contraction and then 
declines more rapidly when asset sales begin.  In all four scenarios, Treasury securities 
begin to roll off the portfolio as they ma ture starting in the fourth quarter of 2012. 
In each scenario, after rese rve balances reach the assumed $25 billion floor and 
the U.S. Treasury’s supplementary financi ng account has been wound down, the balance 
sheet begins to expand as purchases of Treas ury securities match th e growth of Federal 
Reserve capital and notes in circulation.  Th e balance sheet reaches a size of about $1.8 
trillion by the end of 2020.3  
In the baseline scenario, an additi onal $600 billion of longer-term Treasury 
securities are purchased.  The proceeds from principal repayments from Treasury 
securities, agency debt securities, and agen cy MBS continue to be reinvested into 
Treasury securities.  This reinvestment policy continues until the assumed liftoff of the 
target federal funds rate from its curre nt setting in the f ourth quarter of 2012.4  
Immediately after the target fe deral funds rate increases, th e baseline projection assumes 
that all maturing securities and prepayments of securities are allowed to roll off the 
portfolio.  Six months after the assumed rise in the target federal funds rate, remaining 
holdings of agency MBS and agency debt securi ties begin to be sold at a rate that would 
reduce the amount of these securities in the po rtfolio to zero in five years, by the end of 
the first quarter of 2018.5, 6 
In the scenario corresponding to Alterna tive A, a larger purchase program is 
assumed–an additional $1 trillion of longer-ter m Treasury securities are purchased from 
November 2010 to the end of 2011, at a pace of about $70 billion per month.  All other 
assumptions are identical to the baseline scenario. 
In the scenario corresponding to Alternative C, there are no additional Treasury 
security purchases, although the proceeds from maturing Treasury securities and the 
                                                 
3 The composition of Federal Reserve assets in these projections differs notably at times from historical 
patterns.  Prior to August 2007, U.S. Treasury secu rities made up 100 percent of the domestic securities 
portfolio.  By contrast, under the baseline scenario, Treasury securities are projected to account for only 
around 44 percent of the domestic securities portfolio at the end of 2010.  By the end of 2020, Treasury 
securities account for 100 percent of the domes tic securities portfolio under all scenarios. 
4 All scenarios assume the same path for the federal funds rate. 
5 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the volume of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five year period is minimal. 
6 The balance sheet projections assu me that the tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurchase 
agreements and the term deposit facility) are not used. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 25 of 46
   
 
 principal payments of agency MBS and agency debt securities are reinvested in Treasury 
securities through the third quart er of 2012.  All other assumptions are as in the baseline.  
For Alternative D, there ar e no additional Treasury s ecurity purchases, although 
the proceeds from maturing Treas ury securities and the prin cipal payments of agency 
securities are reinvested in Treasury securities; the reinvest ment of principal payments on 
agency securities is halted at the end of the second quart er of 2011, five quarters earlier 
than in the other scenarios.  The Tealbook pr ojects that GDP accelerates in 2011, and this 
alternative assumes that the FOMC halts its policy of rei nvestment in response.  The 
subsequent decline in asset holdings is th e same as in the other alternatives.  
Relative to the September Tealbook, under th e baseline scenario, total assets are 
projected to be much higher over the next few years due to the additional purchases of 
longer-term Treasury securities.  The path for holdings of agency MBS is a bit lower than 
in the September Tealbook based on projec tions for a somewhat faster rate of 
prepayments of agency MBS. 
On the liability side of the balance sheet, in the baseline scenario, reserve 
balances are higher than in the previous Teal book over the next couple of years as a result 
of the purchase of additional Treasury securi ties.  With this higher path for reserve 
balances, the U.S. Treasury’s supplementary financing account is not run down to zero 
until March 2016, almost a year later than in the last projection.  Under the baseline 
scenario, the monetary base is projected to contract, on net, through mid-2015, reflecting 
the decline in reserve balances. 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 26 of 46
   
 
  
  Jan-10 -17.8 -17.8 -17.8 -17.8
Feb-10 72.2 72.2 72.2 72.2
Mar-10 -19.7 -19.7 -19.7 -19.7
Apr-10 -37.6 -37.6 -37.6 -37.6
May-10 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0
Jun-10 -5.8 -5.8 -5.8 -5.8
Jul -10 -2.2 -2.2 -2.2 -2.2
Aug-10 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4
Sep-10 -10.2 -10.2 -10.2 -10.2
Oct-10 14.6 14.6 13.7 12.5
Nov-10 32.6 31.6 6.5 5.9
Dec-10 27.3 25.2 -24.4 -23.2
2010 Q1 14.0 14.0 14.0 14.02010 Q2 -10.4 -10.4 -10.4 -10.4
2010 Q3 -3.9 -3.9 -3.9 -3.92010 Q4 12.7 12.3 0.7 0.3
2009 41.5 41.5 41.5 41.52010 3.0 2.9 0.0 -0.12011 28.7 43.1 -1.7 -1.7
2012 -2.3 1.6 -2.9 -4.8
2013 -16.7 -15.0 -15.3 -15.6
2014 -15.8 -16.2 -18.1 -18.2
2015 -22.2 -20.8 -0.5 2.1
Note: Not seasonally adjusted.Monthly
Quarterly
Annual, Q4 to Q4 Alternative AGrowth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Baseline Alternative C Alternative D
Percent, annual rate
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 27 of 46
   
 
 DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial debt is projected to  expand at an annual rate of about 4 
percent during the fourth quarter of this ye ar, as private domestic nonfinancial debt is 
expected to remain about unchanged while gove rnment debt continue s to grow rapidly.  
With private debt anticipated to begin incr easing again next year, domestic nonfinancial 
debt is expected to expand about 4¾ percent in 2011 and 5¼ percent in 2012.  
Nonfinancial business debt is projected to grow 1¾ percent in the fourth quarter, as 
modest growth in capital spending and firms’ very high holdings of liquid assets suggest 
continued weak demand for external funding.  We expect growth in nonfinancial business 
debt to rise gradually to 3½ percent in 2012, reflecting a pickup in capital expenditures 
over the forecast period.  Despite historically low mortgage rates, home mortgage debt is 
anticipated to contract until the middle of 2011, reflecting rela tively tight lending 
standards, sluggish housing dema nd, and declining house prices.7  With the gradual 
improvement in housing sector fundamentals, hom e mortgage debt is anticipated to grow 
slightly in 2012.  Consumer cr edit is projected to be flat in the current quarter but to 
increase fairly robustly over the remainder of  the forecast period, driven by strong growth 
in spending on consumer durables.  Federal gov ernment debt is expected to expand at a 
double-digit rate, on average, over the forecast period. 
After remaining about flat in the third qua rter, commercial bank credit is expected 
to increase about 1 percent in the current quarter, as the runoff in loans slows down 
slightly and banks continue to expand rapidl y their securities holdings.  Bank credit is 
projected to grow about 2¼ percent in 2011 and 3¾ percent in 2012, primarily reflecting 
a resumption of modest loan growth.  Although standards and terms for bank loans to 
businesses are easing somewhat, lending conditions for bank-dependent borrowers 
remain tight.  Commercial and i ndustrial loans are projected to  be relatively little changed 
in the fourth quarter before accelerating gradually over the remainder of the forecast 
period.  We anticipate that commercial real es tate loans will contract in 2011 and remain 
about flat in 2012, as fundamental s for this sector remain wea k.  Residential real estate 
loans are forecast to run off through the second quarter of 2011 and then to grow slowly.  
Consumer loans at banks are expected to dec line in the fourth quarter, partly due to a 
continued increase in the share of consumer credit held by nonbank institutions.  Next 
year, consumer lending at banks  is projected to increase mo destly and strengthen further 
                                                 
7 We expect the recent mortgage documentation problems to have only limited effects on the trajectory 
of home mortgage debt, on net, over the next year. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 28 of 46
   
 
 in 2012.  Partly reflecting the gradual recove ry in loan demand, the growth in banks’ 
securities holdings is expected to moderate over the forecast period. 
M2 is projected to expand at a pace below that of nominal GDP over the forecast 
period, as investors steadily reallocate their portfolios aw ay from safe and liquid M2 
assets toward higher-yielding investments.  Liquid deposits are anticipated to decelerate 
from their robust pace recorded since 2009, but  growth in this component of M2 is 
expected to remain solid.  Small time deposits  and retail money market mutual funds are 
projected to continue to contract through mo st of the forecast peri od, though the rate of 
decline moderates over time.  Currency is fo recast to expand moderately as demand for 
currency from abroad wanes. 
 Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook For ecast*
Jan-10 -8.0
Feb-10 8.4
Mar-10 -3.6
Apr-10 -4.1
May-10 11.6
Jun-10 4.4
Jul-10 -0.2
Aug-10 6.4
Sep-10 8.3
Oct-10 8.3
Nov-10 3.2
Dec-10 1.3
Quarterly Growth Rates
2010 Q1 -0.1
2010 Q2 1.8
2010 Q3 4.6
2010 Q4 6.2
Annual Growth Rates
2009 5.1
2010 3.2
2011 1.4
2012 4.3
* This forecast is consistent with nominal G DP and interest rates in the Tealbook
forecast. Actual data through October 2010; projections thereafter.Growth Rates for M2
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate)
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 29 of 46
   
 
 DIRECTIVE  
The September directive appears below.  Drafts for a November directive that 
correspond to each of the four policy alternat ives appear on subsequent pages.  The 
directive for Alternatives A and B would in struct the Desk to increase the SOMA’s 
securities holdings by $1 trillion by the end of December 2011 through the purchase of 
longer-term Treasury securiti es while continuing the current portfolio policy of 
reinvesting principal payments.  Alternative B would instruct the Desk to increase the 
SOMA’s securities holdings  by $600 trillion by the end of June 2011 through the 
purchases of longer-term Treasury securities while continuing the current portfolio policy 
of reinvesting principal payments.  The dire ctives that co rrespond to Alternatives C and 
D would instruct the Desk to maintain th e SOMA’s total holdi ngs of securities at 
approximately the current leve l by continuing to reinvest re payments of principal from 
agency debt and MBS in longe r-term Treasury securities. 
 
 
September 2010 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
maintain the total face value of domestic s ecurities held in the System Open Market 
Account at approximately $2 tr illion by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in l onger-term Treasury securities.  The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System's  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability. 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 30 of 46
   
 
 November 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk 
to execute purchases of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of December 
2011 in order to increase the total face value of domestic  securities held in the 
System Open Market Account to  approximately $3 trillion.  The Committee  also 
directs the Desk to maintain the total face value of domestic securities held in the System 
Open Market Account at approximately $2 trillion by  reinvest ing principal payments 
from agency debt and agency mortgage -backed securities in  longer-term Treasury 
securities.  The System Open Market Acc ount Manager and the Secretary will keep the 
Committee informed of ongoing developments re garding the System's balance sheet that 
could affect the attainment over time of  the Committee's objectives of maximum 
employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 31 of 46
   
 
 November 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk 
to execute purchases of longer-term Treasu ry securities by the end of June 2011 in 
order to increase the total fa ce value of domestic securiti es held in the System Open 
Market Account to approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Committee  also  directs the Desk 
to maintain the total face value of domestic securities held in the System Open Market 
Account at approximately $2 trillion by  reinvest ing principal payments from agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in l onger-term Treasury securities.  The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System's  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 32 of 46
   
 
 November 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
maintain the total face value of domestic s ecurities held in the System Open Market 
Account at approximately $2 tr illion by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in l onger-term Treasury securities.  The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System’s  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee’s obj ectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 33 of 46
   
 
 November 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative D 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
maintain the total face value of domestic s ecurities held in the System Open Market 
Account at approximately $2 tr illion by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in l onger-term Treasury securities.  The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System’s  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee’s obj ectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 34 of 46
Explanatory Notes 
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The equilibrium real rate is the real federa l funds rate that, if maintained, would be 
projected to return output to its potential level over time.  The short-run equilibrium rate is 
defined as the rate that would close the output  gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding 
model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal 
funds rate projected to keep output at poten tial in seven years, under the assumption that 
monetary policy acts to bring actual and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps 
them equal thereafter.  The TIPS-based factor model measure provides an estimate of market 
expectations for the real federal funds rate seven years ahead.  
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy—
depend on data for major spending categories, price and wages, and the federal funds rate as well as the model’ s structure and estimate of the output 
gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the 
output gap conditional on the extended baseline. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 35 of 46
   
Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the nominal 
rate and realized inflation, where the nominal ra te is measured as the quarterly average of the 
observed federal funds rate, and r ealized inflation is given by the log difference between the core 
PCE price index and its lagged value four quarter s earlier.  If the upcoming FOMC meeting falls 
early in the quarter, the lagged inflation measure e nds in the last quarter.  For the current quarter, 
the nominal rate is specified as the target fede ral funds rate on the Tealbook publication date.   
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on the proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimated real federal funds  rates based on lagged core PCE inflation, the 
definition used in the Equilibrium Real Federa l Funds Rate chart; lagged four-quarter headline 
PCE inflation; and projected four-quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  
For each estimate of the real rate, the table also provides the Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based 
measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate a nd the average actual real federal funds rate over 
the next twelve quarters. 
Proxy used for  
expected infl
ation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current value) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Average actual 
real funds rate 
(twelve-quarter 
average) 
Lagged core inflation -1.2 -1.9 -0.7 
Lagged headline 
inflation -1.3 -2.0 -0.8 
Projected headline inflation -1.0 -1.9 -0.7 
 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 36 of 46
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS  
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧  and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
one quarter ahead (   ݕ௧െ כ ݕ
௧ and  כ ݕ
௧ାଵ| ௧ െ  ݕ௧ାଵ|௧), and the three-quarter-ahead forecast of annual 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕଷ| ௧ െ Δସ
௧ା  כ  ݕ
௧ାଷ|௧), and denotes an assumed value of 
polic
ymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  Th e outcome-based and forecast-based rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the samp le 1988:1-2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion. Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point  increments during the first three quarters of 
1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r*  or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003).     
Outcome-based rule  ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
Forecast-based rule  ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
  ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅௧ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅௧ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ 
First-difference rule  ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ 
FRB/US MODEL SIMULATIONS   
Prescriptions from the two empirical rules are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969-2008.  
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL MARKETS   
The expected funds rate path is based on Eurodollar quotes and implied three-month 
forward rates from  swaps, and the confidence interv als for this path are constructed using prices 
of interest rate caps.  
Explanatory Notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 37 of 46
   
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap. Because the first-difference rule involves the lagged funds rate, the value labeled “Previous 
Tealbook” for the current quarter is computed usi ng the actual value of the lagged funds rate, and 
the one-quarter-ahead prescriptions are based on this rule’s prescription for the current quarter.  
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214. 
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341. 
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
 
 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 38 of 46
   
C. Long-run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions underlying the projections 
provided in the section entitled “Long-R un Projections of the Balance Sheet and 
Monetary Base,” as well as projections fo r each major component of  the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are cons tructed on a monthly frequency from 
October 2010 to December 2020.  The few bala nce sheet items that are not discussed 
below are assumed to be constant over th e projection period at the level observed on 
September 30, 2010.  The projections for all major asset and liab ility categories under 
each scenario are summarized in the ta bles that follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the fede ral funds rate begins to increase in 
the fourth quarter of 2012.  The balance shee t projections assume that no use of short-
term draining tools is necessary to achieve the projected path for the federal funds rate. 
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency MBS, and Agency Debt Securities 
 The baseline scenario corr esponds to Alternative B. 
o An additional $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities are 
purchased from November 2010 to June 2011, at an average pace of 
$75 billion per month.   
o Principal payments from Treasury secu rities continue to be reinvested 
until the federal funds rate lifts off. 
o Principal payments from agency MB S and agency debt securities are 
reinvested in longer term Treasury s ecurities until the federal funds rate 
increases in the fourth quarter of 2012.   
o All purchases of Treasury securities  are executed assuming a maturity 
distribution similar to that of th e first Treasury purchase program.1 
o At the time of the federal funds liftoff,  all securities are allowed to roll off 
the portfolio as they mature or prepay. 
                                                 
1 Because current and expected near-term intere st rates are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at  which these securities ar e purchased will exceed the 
face value.  Reserve balances will increase by the market value, whereas securities holdings will increase 
by the face value.  The roughl y $120 billion in premiums is recorded in “other assets.” 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 39 of 46
   
o The Federal Reserve will begin to se ll agency MBS and agency debt 
securities six months after the assume d increase in the federal funds rate.  
The holdings of agency securities are reduced over five years and reach 
zero by the end of the fi rst quarter of 2018.   
o For agency MBS, the rate of prepay ment is based on estimates of housing 
market factors from one of the pr ogram’s investment managers and 
interest rate projections from th e Tealbook.  The projected rate of 
prepayment is sensitive to these underlying assumptions. 
 Under Alternative A, a $1 trillion longer-term Treasury securities purchase 
program is implemented between Novemb er 2010 and the end of 2011.  All other 
assumptions follow the baseline scenario. 
 Under Alternative C, there are no additional Treasury security purchases, although the proceeds from maturing Treasury securities an d the principal 
payments of agency MBS and agency debt  securities are reinvested in Treasury 
securities through September 2012.  All other assumptions ar e as in the baseline.  
 Under Alternative D, there are no additional Treasury security purchases, although the proceeds from maturing Treasury securities an d the principal 
payments of agency securities are reinvest ed in Treasury securities; the latter is 
halted at the end of the second quarter of  2011, five quarters earlier than in the 
other scenarios.  The Tealbook projects  that GDP accelerates in 2011, and this 
alternative assumes that the FOMC halts its policy of re investment in response.  
The subsequent decline in asset holdings is  the same as in the other alternatives. 
 In all four scenarios, a minimum level of  $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  
To ensure that reserve balances do not fall below this minimum level, first the U.S. Treasury’s supplementary financing account (SFA) is reduced.  After the SFA declines to zero, Treasury bills are purchased.  Purchases of bills continue until these securities comprise one-third of the Federal Reserve’s total Treasury securities holdings–about the average level in the period prior to the crisis.  Once 
this level is reached, the Federal Reserv e buys notes and bonds in addition to bills 
to maintain an approximate composition of the portfolio of one-third bills and 
two-thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
 Loans through the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) peaked at 
$49 billion in March 2010.  Credit extended th rough this facility  declines to zero 
by the end of 2014, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
 The assets held by TALF LLC increase to $1.3 billion by the end of 2014, before 
declining to zero thereafter.  Assets held  by TALF LLC consist of investments of 
commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 40 of 46
   
this projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in connection with a decision of a 
borrower not to repay a TALF loan.  
 Credit extended to AIG, the sum of th e Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s 
extension of revolving credit and its pref erred interests in AIA Aurora LLC and 
ALICO Holdings LLC, increases slightly to $47 billion in October 2010 and then 
declines to zero by March of 2013. 
 The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC, Ma iden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III 
LLC are sold over time and reach a minimal level by the end of 2016.  
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money 
stock currency through the end of 2012.  Fr om 2013 to the end of the projection 
period, Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow at th e same rate as nominal 
GDP, as projected in the extended Tealbook forecast. 
 The U.S. Treasury’s general account (TGA) follows the staff forecast for end-of-
month U.S. Treasury operating cas h balances through March of 2011.2  At that 
point, the TGA slowly drops back to its historical target level of $5 billion by the 
end of 2011 as it is assumed that the Tr easury will have implemented a new cash 
management system that allows it to i nvest funds in excess of $5 billion.  The 
TGA remains constant at $5 billion over the remainder of the forecast period. 
 Balances in the SFA remain at their cu rrent level until the SFA is reduced to 
ensure that the level of reserve bala nces does not fall be low $25 billion. 
 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year, in line with the average rate of 
the past ten years. 
 In general, increases in the level of asse ts of the Federal Reserve generate higher 
levels of reserve balances.  Increases in th e levels of other liab ility items, such as 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation or  the Treasury’s gene ral account, like 
increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital it ems would otherwise ca use reserve balances 
to fall below $25 billion, purchases of Treas ury securities are assumed in order to 
maintain that level of reserve balances. 
 
 
                                                 
2 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of both 
the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Tr easury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is a good proxy 
for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 41 of 46
   
 
 
 
 
   End-of-Year
Sep 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,311 2,424 2,767 1,930 1,475 1,635 1,825
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 30 29 9 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 30 29 9 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 112 84 29 9 2 0 0
C r e d i t  e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 4 5 3 100000
67 53 29 9 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,054 2,180 2,561 1,799 1,384 1,559 1,756
U.S. Treasury securities 822 1,040 1,934 1,415 1,235 1,559 1,756Agency debt securities 154 147 77 39 16 0 0Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,079 992 550 345 133 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0Total other assets 108 126 161 113 82 69 62
Total liabilities
2,254 2,365 2,689 1,827 1,339 1,455 1,587
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 914 920 981 1,113 1,231 1,347 1,479Reverse repurchase agreements 65 64 59 59 59 59 59
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,252 1,363 1,634 641 35 35 35
  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 942 1,091 1,424 431 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 1 0 8 7 055555  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 200 0 0 0O t h e r  b a l a n c e s 2255555
Total capital
57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Baseline Scenario (Alternative B)
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 42 of 46
   
 
 
 
   End-of-Year
Sep 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,311 2,417 3,167 2,236 1,475 1,635 1,825
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 30 29 9 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 30 29 9 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 112 84 29 9 2 0 0
C r e d i t  e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 4 5 3 100000
67 53 29 9 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,054 2,173 2,961 2,105 1,384 1,559 1,756
U.S. Treasury securities 822 1,033 2,334 1,721 1,235 1,559 1,756Agency debt securities 154 147 77 39 16 0 0Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,079 992 550 345 133 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0Total other assets 108 126 161 113 82 69 62
Total liabilities
2,254 2,358 3,089 2,132 1,339 1,455 1,587
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 914 920 981 1,113 1,231 1,347 1,479Reverse repurchase agreements 65 64 59 59 59 59 59
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,252 1,358 2,034 947 35 35 35
  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 942 1,084 1,824 737 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 1 0 8 7 055555  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 200 0 0 0O t h e r  b a l a n c e s 2555555
Total capital
57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 43 of 46
   
 
 
 
  End-of-Year
Sep 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,311 2,246 2,092 1,440 1,475 1,635 1,825
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 30 29 9 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 30 29 9 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 112 84 29 9 2 0 0
C r e d i t  e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 4 5 3 100000
67 53 29 9 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,054 2,030 1,964 1,351 1,400 1,566 1,759
U.S. Treasury securities 822 890 1,338 967 1,251 1,566 1,759Agency debt securities 154 147 77 39 16 0 0Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,079 992 550 345 133 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0T o t a l  o t h e r  a s s e t s  1 0 89 88 27 16 66 35 9
Total liabilities
2,254 2,187 2,014 1,337 1,339 1,455 1,587
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 914 920 981 1,113 1,231 1,347 1,479Reverse repurchase agreements 65 64 59 59 59 59 59
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,252 1,187 959 151 35 35 35
  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 942 913 749 25 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 1 0 8 7 055555  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 116 0 0 0O t h e r  b a l a n c e s 2555555
Total capital
57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 44 of 46
   
 
 
 
 End-of-Year
Sep 30, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,311 2,246 2,052 1,409 1,475 1,635 1,825
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 30 29 9 0 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 30 29 9 0 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 112 84 29 9 2 0 0
C r e d i t  e x t e n d e d  t o  A I G 4 5 3 100000
67 53 29 9 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,054 2,030 1,925 1,320 1,400 1,566 1,759
U.S. Treasury securities 822 890 1,298 936 1,251 1,566 1,759Agency debt securities 154 147 77 39 16 0 0Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,079 992 550 345 133 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0T o t a l  o t h e r  a s s e t s  1 0 89 88 27 16 66 35 9
Total liabilities
2,254 2,187 1,974 1,305 1,339 1,455 1,587
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 914 920 981 1,113 1,231 1,347 1,479Reverse repurchase agreements 65 64 59 59 59 59 59
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,252 1,185 919 120 35 35 35
  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 942 913 709 25 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 1 0 8 7 055555  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 85 0 0 0O t h e r  b a l a n c e s 2255555
Total capital
57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections --Alternative D
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 45 of 46
(This page is intentionally blank.)
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
October 28, 2010
Page 46 of 46