 Prefatory Note 
 
 
T
he attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable p rovisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.  
Content last modified 02/03 /2017.   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
September 15, 2011 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

  
                                                 
 
 
 1 For a discussion of these revisions, see Book A of the Tealbook. 
2 The staff’s baseline forecast incorporates the effects of the large-scale asset purchase program that was 
completed at the end of June, as well as the maturity extension program included in Alternative B, and these 
same effects have been incorporated into the optimal policy simulations. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011Monetary Policy Strategies 
All of the staff’s estimates of short-run r*—the real federal funds rate that, if 
maintained, would return output to its poten tial in twelve quarters—declined over the 
intermeeting period.  By historical standards,  these estimates of the equilibrium real 
federal funds rate remain low, and all exce pt the EDO model’s es timate of short-run r * are 
below the estimated actual real federal funds ra te.  As shown in the last two columns of 
the table in the exhibit, “Equilibrium Real Fe deral Funds Rate,” the estimates of short-run 
r* generated by the FRB/US model and the E DO model that are conditioned on the staff 
outlook for the economy (that is, the “Tealbook- consistent” estimates) decreased 60 and 
140 basis points, respectively. Th e downward revisions to these r* estimates reflect the 
staff’s assessment that the economic outlook ha s weakened, resulting in a more negative 
trajectory for the output gap than in the August Tealbook.1 The r* estimates from the 
single-equation and small struct ural models, which condition on the staff’s assessment of 
the current output gap, have both decreased by 10  basis points.  In addition, estimates of 
short-run r * from the FRB/US and EDO models  based on the models’ own economic 
projections have declined by 70 a nd 20 basis points, respectively. 
The exhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy” shows the results of 
optimal control simulations of the FRB/US model.  In these simulations, policymakers are 
assumed to place equal weights on keeping head line PCE inflation close to a 2 percent 
inflation goal, on keeping unemployment close to the staff’s estimate of the effective 
natural rate of unemployment, and on minimizing changes in the federal funds rate.  As has been true for some time, the simulations indicate that the optimal path of the policy 
rate is affected significantly by the zero lower-bound constraint on the nominal federal 
funds rate. In the constrained simulation, the only way that policymakers can provide 
additional stimulus is by delaying and slowing down future increases in the federal funds 
rate.
 2  Consequently, the policy prescriptions from optimal control simulations of the 
FRB/US model call for the federal funds rate to remain near zero through the end of 2015,  
four quarters later than in th e previous Tealbook and five qua rters later than assumed in 
the staff’s current baseline forecast (not s hown).  By committing to keep the funds rate 
Strategies
Page 1 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
0864202468 Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals Percent 
8
 
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation 
Range of four model-based estimates 
70 Percent confidence interval 
90 Percent confidence interval 6
 
4
 2
 0 
-2 -4 -6 -8 
Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US) 
-10 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
 -1---- 
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
( (
   
( (
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
(
   
  
   Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures 
Current Tealbook Previous Tealbook 
Short-Run Measures
 Single-equation model -2.4 -2.3
 Small structural model -2.2 -2.1
 EDO model -0.4 -0.2
 FRB/US model -3.4 -2.7
 Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval -3.9 to -0.2
 90 percent confidence interval -4.9 to 1.0
 Tealbook-consistent measures
 EDO model -4.7 -3.3
 FRB/US model -3.5 -2.9
 
Medium-Run Measures
 Single-equation model 0.9 1.0
 Small structural model 0.7 0.8
 Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates
 70 percent confidence interval -0.1 to 1.7
 90 percent confidence interval -0.7 to 2.4
 TIPS-based factor model 1.7 1.8
 
Memo
 Actual real federal funds rate -1.1 -1.1 
Note: Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals. The actual real federal funds rate shown is generated using lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation
expectations. For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate 
Page 2 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
-6-4-202468  
-8-6-4-2024  
34567891011  
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0  Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy 
(2 Percent Inflation Goal) 
Nominal Federal Funds Rate 
Percent
 
8
 
Current Tealbook: Constrained 
Previous Tealbook: Constrained 
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained 6
 
4
 2
 
0 
-2 
-4 -6 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
 
Civilian Unemployment Rate 
Percent
 
11
 
10
 
9
 8
 
7
 
6
 5
 
4
 
3
 Real Federal Funds Rate 
Percent
 
4
 
2
 
0 
-2 -4 -6 
-8 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
 
PCE Inflation 
Four-quarter average Percent 
3.0 
2.5 2.0 
1.5 
1.0 0.5 0.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
 
Note: The optimal control simulations are derived from a loss function that uses headline inflation and the lower right 
panel displays the behavior of simulated headline inflation. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Strategies
Page 3 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
   
 
                                                 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Strategiesnear zero for such a long stretch of time, opt imal policy would promote a faster pace of 
economic recovery and somewhat higher infl ation.  Specifically, th e unemployment rate 
would fall to 5 percent in 2016 (compared to 6 percent in the baseline), while headline 
inflation would average a bit above 2 percent from 2012 through 2016 (compared to 1.4 
percent in the baseline). That said, project ed outcomes under this strategy are estimated to 
be less favorable than they were at the tim e of the August Tealbook, because the staff now 
foresees greater weakness in labor and produc t markets—a development that constrained 
optimal policy only partially offsets. 
If the nominal funds rate could fall be low zero, the optimal federal funds rate 
would decline to minus 3¼ percent in the first quarter of 2013, and not turn positive until 
the first quarter of 2015. Under this uncons trained policy, the unemployment rate would 
gradually decline from its current 9.1 percent level to just above 5 percent by the end of 
2016, falling slightly below the staff estimat e of the effective natural rate of 
unemployment in the third quarter of 2014—more than a year earlier than under the 
constrained policy. Projected inflation thr ough mid-decade is broadly similar, however, 
primarily because the private sector anticipates that the FOMC will tolerate somewhat 
higher average inflation for a time after 2016 und er constrained optimal policy as a means 
of lowering the path of real interest rates, thereby providing stimulus to the economy in 
the presence of the lower bound constraint. 
As shown in the exhibit “Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations for the 
Federal Funds Rate,” the expected funds ra te implied by the estimated outcome-based 
policy rule moves above its e ffective lower bound only in the third quarter of 2014,  four 
quarters later than in the previous Tealbook.3 This change reflects the staff’s projection of 
a wider output gap and slower real GDP grow th relative to the last Tealbook.  The 
estimated rule prescribes a considerably lo wer path for the policy rate from 2013 through 
2016 than in the August Tealbook. 
As shown to the right, information from fi nancial markets suggests that investors’ 
current expectations for the path of the federa l funds rate imply that the funds rate will 
remain within its current target range until the second quarter of 2013 before rising 
gradually to 2 percent by the end of 2016.  Compared with the August Tealbook, the 
distribution of the federal funds rate implied by financia l market data has narrowed, 
particularly over the next two years. 
3 This rule is used to set the longer-run path for the federal funds rate  in the Tealbook baseline forecast. 
Page 4 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
012345678  
012345678  
 Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations for the Federal Funds Rate
 
FRB/US Model Simulations of Market-Based Expectations
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule for the Federal Funds Rate 
Percent Percent 
Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 8 8 
7 7 
6 6 
5 5 
4 4 
3 3 
2 2 
1 1 
0 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 Current Tealbook Previous Tealbook 
Note: The staff baseline projection for the federal funds rate is derived from the outcome-based policy rule shown in 
the top-left panel. The top-right panel depicts the mean path and confidence intervals of future federal funds rates derived from market quotes as of September 14. In both panels, dark and light shadings represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively. Explanatory Note B provides further background information. 
 
  
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
StrategiesMemo Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy 
2011Q4 2012Q1 2011Q4 2012Q1 
Taylor (1993) rule 0.72 0.74 0.72 0.74
 Previous Tealbook 0.76 0.81 0.76 0.81 
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -2.37 -2.35
 Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -2.20 -2.12 
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.23 -0.57
 Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13 -0.15 -0.40 
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.30 -0.77
 Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13 -0.21 -0.53 
First-difference rule 0.13 0.13 -0.07 -0.14
 Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.25  0.12  0.25 
2011Q4 2012Q1 
Staff assumption 0.13 0.13 
Fed funds futures 0.07 0.07 
Median expectation of primary dealers 0.13 0.13 
Blue Chip forecast (September 1, 2011) 0.10 0.10 
Note: In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is
assumed to be 2 percent. Explanatory Note B provides further background information. For rules which have the lagged
policy rate as a right-hand-side variable, the lines denoted "Previous Tealbook Outlook" report rule prescriptions based
on the previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, but jumping off from the average value for the policy rate thus far in the quarter.
Page 5 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
                                                
 
 
  
 
  4 In contrast to the optimal control simulations, which use headline inflation in the policymakers’ 
objective function, the policy rule prescriptions use core inflation as the measure of inflation.  This choice of 
rule specification was made in light of the tendency for current and near-term core inflation rates to 
outperform headline inflation rates as predictors of the medium-term behavior of headline inflation.  Thus, 
the use of headline inflation in the optimal control simulations and of core inflation in the policy rules are both consistent with the notion that policymakers are concerned with the medium-term behavior of headline 
inflation.  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
StrategiesThe lower panel of the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from simple policy 
rules.4  The right-hand columns display the prescr iptions that would arise from these rules 
in the absence of the lower-bound constraint.  As  a consequence of the staff’s forecasts of 
wider output gaps and slower gr owth, all the ru les prescribe a lower funds rate than in 
August, and all the unconstrained prescriptions  except for the Taylor (1993) rule, which 
places relatively less weight on the output gap, take values that ar e below the effective 
lower bound. 
Page 6 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
                                                
  
 
 
  1 “Approaches to Clarifying the Conditionality in the Committee’s Forward Guidance,” sent to the 
Committee on September 12, 2011. 
2 Relative to the previous program, the new purchas es would be concentrated more heavily at the 
longer end of the term structure, with two-thirds at  maturities of 5½ years and longer.  As a result, the 
average maturity of securities purchased under the new program would be longer than the average maturity 
of those purchased under the previous program.  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  Both  structure and content differ more substantially across 
the alternatives than usually is the case.   
Alternative A contains a new paragraph that  offers more explicit definitions of 
mandate-consistent longer-run rates of infl ation and unemployment than the Committee 
has heretofore included in its statement.  Alternative A also replaces the qualitative 
portion of the forward guidance that the FOMC included in the policy paragraph of its 
August statement—the declaration that “low rates of resource util ization and a subdued 
outlook for inflation over the medium run are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels 
for the federal funds rate at least thro ugh mid-2013”—with numerical thresholds for 
inflation and the unemployment rate.  Thes e features of Alternative A reflect the 
illustrative language in the recent memo on clarifying forward guidance.1 Given the 
staff’s baseline forecast, neither of the thresh old values specified in Alternative A would 
be met before 2015, suggesting that the Comm ittee could extend the projected period of 
exceptionally low rates to “at least through 2014.”  Alternatives B and C retain the 
qualitative forward guidance language from the August statement.   
The three alternatives include a wide  range of policy t ools and options.  
Alternative A includes a large-scale asset pu rchase program modeled on the one that the 
Committee implemented from late-2010 to  mid-2011.  Under Alternative A, the 
Committee would buy, over a period of 12 mo nths, $1 trillion of longer-term Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of 1½ to 30 years.2  Alternative B includes two 
variants of a maturity extension program.  Under the first, the Committee would indicate 
that it intends to purchase, over 9 months, $400 billion of Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 6 to 30 years, and to  sell an equal amount of Treasury securities 
with remaining maturities of 3 years or less.  Under the second, the Committee would 
announce that it is initiating pur chases of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 
Alternatives
Page 7 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
  
                                                 
 
  
 3 The asset purchase programs in Alternatives A and B are analyzed in “P ossible Approaches to 
Providing Monetary Accommodation: Reinvestment Maturity Extension Program, SOMA Portfolio 
Maturity Extension Program, and Long-Maturity LS AP,” also sent to the Committee on September 12. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives6 to 30 years at a pace of about $45 billion per month, and that it will sell Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less at the same pace; the Committee 
also would announce that it anti cipates continuing this maturity extension program for up 
to 9 months.3  Any of these programs would extend  the average maturity of the SOMA 
portfolio and reduce the quantity of longer-term securi ties held by the pu blic.  Alternative 
A would expand the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and the supply of reserve deposits, 
while Alternative B would keep the size of the balance sheet and the level of reserve 
deposits roughly unchanged.  Alternative B raises the possibility of reducing the interest 
rate paid on required and excess reserve balanc es from 25 to 10 basis points in order to 
align those rates with current a nd projected levels of overnight  market rates.  This step 
could be incorporated into A lternative A as well.  Alternative C includes no new policy 
action; instead, it introduces language saying that the Committee will regularly assess the 
implications of incoming information for the economic outlook and suggesting a greater 
willingness to act before mid-2013 if necessary to foster its objectives. 
Each alternative acknowledges the weak  incoming information on output and 
employment, though with somewhat different em phases.  No alternative attributes much 
of the current softness in activity to earlie r commodity price incr eases or supply chain 
disruptions. To the contrary, Alternativ es A and B note that household spending has 
increased at only a modest pace in recent mont hs despite a recovery in auto sales as 
supply-chain disruptions eased. Alternativ e C, however, points to the recovery in 
production and sales of motor vehicles as c ontributing to modest growth in consumer 
spending. The draft statements also differ in their treatment of infl ation:  Alternative C 
notes the pickup in inflation earlier this year as well as its more recent moderation; 
Alternatives A and B focus on the moderati on.  Turning to the outlook, the drafts of 
Alternatives A and B indicate that the Committ ee continues to expect some pickup in the 
pace of recovery over coming quarters, but highlight downside risks to the economic outlook, including strains in globa l financial markets.  The dr aft of Alternative C notes 
the presence of downside risk s but emphasizes the projection of some pickup in growth. 
The next three pages contain a table that shows key elements of the alternatives.  
The table is followed by complete draft stat ements, then by a summary of the arguments 
for each alternative. 
Page 8 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
    
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 n.a.
n.a.Table 1: Overview of Alternatives for the Sept. 21 FOMC Statement 
Key 
Components August 
Statement September Alternatives 
A B C 
Economic Activity 
Economic 
Recovery economic growth so far 
this year has been 
considerably slower than 
Committee had expected economic growth 
remains quite slow economic growth remains slow 
Labor 
Market indicators suggest 
deterioration in overall 
labor market conditions indicators point to continuing weakness in overall labor market conditions, and 
unemployment rate remains elevated 
Temporary 
Factors 
Influencing Recovery appear to account for only 
some of the recent 
weakness in economic 
activity some recovery in sales of motor vehicles as 
supply-chain disruptions eased sales of new motor vehicles recovering after 
auto manufacturers made 
progress in restoring 
supply chains and 
increased production 
Household 
Spending has flattened out has been increasing at only a modest pace in recent 
months increased at a modest pace in recent months 
Inflation 
Recent 
Developments Inflation picked up earlier 
in the year, mainly 
reflecting higher prices for 
some commodities and 
imported goods, as well as 
supply chain disruptions. n.a. n.a. Inflation picked up earlier in the year, mainly 
reflecting higher prices for 
some commodities and 
imported goods, as well as 
supply chain disruptions. 
More recently, inflation has 
moderated as prices of 
energy and some 
commodities have declined 
from their earlier peaks. Inflation has moderated since earlier in the year as prices of energy and some commodities have 
declined from their peaks. More recently, inflation has moderated as prices of 
energy and some 
commodities have declined 
from their peaks. 
Longer-term 
expectations Longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained 
stable Longer-term inflation expectatio ns have remained stable 
Longer-run Goals 
Inflation n.a. The Committee judges that inflation of 2 percent 
as measured by the price 
index for personal 
consumption 
expenditures is most 
consistent, over the 
longer run, with the dual 
mandate. n.a. 
Employment n.a. Currently, the Committee 
projects that, in the 
absence of further shocks 
to the economy, the 
unemployment rate would 
converge over time to a 
level around [5 to 6] 
percent; this projection is 
subject to considerable 
uncertainty. n.a. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011 
 
Alternatives
Page 9 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Table 1: Overview of Alternatives for the Sept. 21 FOMC Statement 
(continued ) 
Key 
Components August Statement September Alternatives 
A B C 
Outlook 
Economic Activity The Committee now expects a somewhat 
slower pace of recovery 
over coming quarters 
and anticipates that the 
unemployment rate will 
decline only gradually Committee continues to 
expect some pickup in 
pace of recovery over 
coming quarters but 
anticipates that the 
unemployment rate will 
decline only slowly Committee continues to 
expect some pickup in 
pace of recovery over 
coming quarters but 
anticipates that the 
unemployment rate will 
decline only gradually Committee continues to expect some pickup in pace of 
recovery over coming quarters 
and anticipates that the 
unemployment rate will decline 
gradually 
Inflation The Committee also anticipates that inflation 
will settle, over coming 
quarters, at or below 
levels consistent with 
the dual mandate as the 
effects of past energy 
and other commodity 
price increases dissipate 
further. The Committee also anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at or 
below levels consistent with the dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other 
commodity price increases dissipate further. 
the Committee will 
continue to pay close 
attention to the evolution 
of inflation and inflation 
expectations the Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and 
inflation expectations 
Federal Funds Rate Target Range 
Intermeeting 
Period 0 to ¼ percent 0 to ¼ percent 
Forward Guidance Committee currently 
anticipates that economic conditions— 
including low rates of 
resource util ization and 
a subdued outlook for inflation over the 
medium-term—are 
likely to warrant 
exceptionally low levels 
for the federal funds rate 
at least through mid­
2013 Committee anticipates that this exceptionally 
low range for the federal 
funds rate will be 
appropriate at least as 
long as unemployment exceeds [ 7 ] percent, 
inflation is projected to 
remain at or below [ 2½ ] 
percent in the medium 
term, and longer-term 
inflation expectations 
continue to be well 
anchored at mandate-
consistent levels. On the 
basis of currently 
available information, 
the Committee expects 
these conditions to 
prevail [ at least through 
2014 ]. Committee currently anti cipates that economic 
conditions—including low rates of resource utilization and 
a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium-term—are 
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal 
funds rate at least through mid-2013 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 10 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 Table 1: Overview of Alternatives for the Sept. 21 FOMC Statement 
(continued ) 
Key 
Components August Statement September Alternatives 
A B C 
SOMA Portfolio Policy 
Asset 
purchases/holdings n.a. The Committee decided 
to expand its holdings of 
longer-term Treasury 
securities by [ by a 
further $1 trillion ] at a 
pace of $80 to $85 
billion over the next [12] 
months. The Committee intends to 
purchase, over 9 months, 
$400 billion of Treasury 
securities with maturities of 
6 to 30 years and to sell an 
equal amount with 
maturities of 3 years or less. 
OR 
The Committee is initiating purchases of Treasury 
securities with remaining 
maturities of 6 years to 30 
years at a pace of about $45 
billion per month and will n.a. 
sell Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 
years or less at the same 
pace; the Committee 
anticipates continuing this 
maturity-extension program 
for up to 9 months. 
Reinvestment 
Policy maintain existing 
reinvestment policy maintain existing policy of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities at 
auction; reinvest MBS 
principal in longer-term 
Treasury securities maintain existing policy of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities at 
auction; reinvest MBS 
principal in Treasury 
securities with remaining 
maturities of 6 to 30 years maintain existing 
reinvestment policy 
Future Policy Action 
Asset Purchases / 
Holdings will regularly review 
size and composition of 
securities holdings and 
is prepared to adjust as 
appropriate will regularly review the pace of its securities 
purchases and the overall 
size of the purchase 
program in light of 
incoming information 
and will adjust the 
program as needed to 
best foster maximum 
employment and price 
stability will regularly review the pace of its securities 
transactions and the overall 
size of the maturity 
extension program in light 
of incoming information 
and will adjust the program 
as needed to best foster maximum employment and 
price stability   n.a. 
Overall  will continue to assess 
the economic outlook in 
light of incoming 
information and is 
prepared to employ 
these tools as 
appropriate will continue to assess 
the economic outlook in 
light of incoming 
information and is 
prepared to employ its 
policy tools as 
appropriate will continue to  assess the 
economic outlook in light of 
incoming information and is 
prepared to employ its 
policy tools as appropriate will regularly assess the 
implications of incoming information for the economic 
outlook and will employ its 
policy tools as necessary to 
foster maximum 
employment and price 
stability 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 11 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
   AUGUST 2011 FOMC STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives1.	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicates 
that economic growth so far this year has been considerably slower than the Committee 
had expected. Indicators suggest a deterioration in overall labor market conditions in 
recent months, and the unemployment rate  has moved up.  Household spending has 
flattened out, investment in nonresidential structures  is still weak, a nd the housing sector 
remains depressed.  However, business investment in equipment and software continues to expand. Temporary factors,  including the damping effect of higher food and energy 
prices on consumer purchasing power and sp ending as well as supply chain disruptions 
associated with the tragic events in Japan, appear to account for only some of the recent 
weakness in economic activity.  Inflation picked  up earlier in the year, mainly reflecting 
higher prices for some commodities and im ported goods, as well as the supply chain 
disruptions. More recently, inflation has moderated as prices of energy and some 
commodities have declined from their earlier peaks.  Longer-term inflation expectations 
have remained stable. 
2.	 Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability.  The Committee now expects a somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming quarters than it did at the time of  the previous meeting and 
anticipates that the unemployme nt rate will decline only gradually toward levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Moreover, downside risks to 
the economic outlook have increased. The Committ ee also anticipates that inflation will 
settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy a nd other commodity price increases dissipate 
further.  However, the Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of 
inflation and inflation expectations. 
3.	 To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee decided today to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ pe rcent.  The Committee currently an ticipates 
that economic conditions—including low rates of resource util ization and a subdued 
outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to warrant ex ceptionally low levels 
for the federal funds rate at least thro ugh mid-2013.  The Committee also will maintain 
its existing policy of reinvesti ng principal payments from its securities holdings.  The 
Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate.  
4.	 The Committee discussed the range of policy tools availa ble to promote a stronger 
economic recovery in a context of  price stability.  It will continue to assess the economic 
outlook in light of incoming information a nd is prepared to employ these tools as 
appropriate. 
Page 12 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
  SEPTEMBER 2011 FOMC STATEMENT —ALTERNATIVE A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
     
  1. 	Information received since the Fe deral Open Market Committee met in August 
indicates that economic growth remains quite slow . Recent  indicators point to 
continuing weakness  in overall labor market conditions, and the unemployment rate 
remains elevated . Household spending has been increasing at only a modest pace 
in recent months despite some recovery in sales of motor vehicles as supply-chain 
disruptions eased . Investment in nonresidential st ructures is still weak, and the 
housing sector remains depressed.  However, business investment in equipment and 
software continues to expand. Inflation has moderated since earlier in the year  as 
prices of energy and some commodities have  declined from their peaks.  Longer-term 
inflation expectations ha ve remained stable.  
2. 	Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee judges that inflation of 2 percent 
as measured by the price index for p ersonal consumption expenditures is most 
consistent, over the longer run, with the dual mandate.  Whereas monetary policy can determine the longer-run inflation rate, monetary policy does not determine the longer-run equilibrium rate of unemployment, which depends on structural economic factors that may vary over time .  Currently, the Committee projects 
that, in the absence of fu rther shocks to the econ omy, the unemployment rate 
would converge over time to a level around [ 5 to 6 ] percent; this projection is 
subject to considerable uncertainty. 
3. 	The Committee continues to expect some pickup in the pace of recovery over 
coming quarters but  anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only slowly 
toward its longer-run equilibrium level. Moreover, there are significant downside 
risks to the economic outlook, including strains in global financial markets . The 
Committee also anticipates that inflation will  settle, over coming quarters, at levels at 
or below those consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other commodity price increases  dissipate further.  However, the 
Committee will continue to pay close atten tion to the evolution of inflation and 
inflation expectations. 
4. 	To promote a stronger  economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, 
is consistent with the dual  mandate, the Committee decided today to keep the target 
range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent.  The Commit tee anticipates that this 
exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as 
long as the unempl oyment rate exceeds [ 7 ] percent, inflation is projected to 
remain at or below  [ 2½ ] percent in the medium term, and longer-term inflation 
expectations continue to be well anchored at mandate-consistent levels . On the 
basis of currently available information, the Committee expects these conditions 
to prevail [ at least through 2014 ]. 
5. 	In addition, the Committee decided to expand its holdings of longer-term 
Treasury securities [ by a further $1 trillion ] at a pace of $80 to $85 billion per 
month over the next [ 12 ] months. This program should put downward pressure 
on longer-term interest rates and help make broader financial conditions more 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 13 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 accommodative. The Committee will regularly review the pace of its securities 
purchases and the overall size of the pu rchase program in light of incoming 
information and will adjust the program as needed to best foster maximum 
employment and price stability . The Committee will maintain its existing policy of 
rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction and will reinvest principal 
payments from its holdings of agency securities in longer-term Treasury 
securities . 
6. 	The Committee will continue to assess the economic outlook in light of incoming 
information and is prepared to employ its policy tools as appropr iate to promote a 
stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability.  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 14 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 SEPTEMBER 2011 FOMC STATEMENT —ALTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in August 
indicates that economic growth remains slow . Recent  indicators point to continuing 
weakness  in overall labor market conditions, and the unemployment rate remains 
elevated . Household spending has been increasing at only a modest pace in recent 
months despite some recovery in sale s of motor vehicles as supply-chain 
disruptions eased . Investment in nonresidential st ructures is still weak, and the 
housing sector remains depressed.  However, business investment in equipment and 
software continues to expand. Inflation has moderated since earlier in the year  as 
prices of energy and some commodities have  declined from their peaks.  Longer-term 
inflation expectations ha ve remained stable.  
2. 	Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee continues to expect some pickup in 
the pace of recovery over coming quarters but anticipates that the unemployment rate 
will decline only gradually towa rd levels that the Committ ee judges to be consistent 
with its dual mandate.  Moreover, there are significant downside risks to the 
economic outlook, including strains in global financial markets . The Committee 
also anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the Committee’s dual ma ndate as the effects of past energy and 
other commodity price increases dissipate further.  However, the Committee will 
continue to pay close attenti on to the evolution of inflati on and inflation expectations. 
3. 	To support a stronger economic recovery and to help en sure that inflation, over time, 
is at levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to  extend 
the average maturity of it s holdings of securities . The Committee intends to 
purchase, over the next 9 months, $400 billion of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years and to sell an equal amount of 
Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less.  This program should put downward pressure on longer- term interest rates and help make 
broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will regularly 
review the pace of its securities transactions and the overall size of the maturity 
extension program in light of incoming information and will adjust the program 
as needed to best foster maxi mum employment and price stability . The 
Committee will maintain its existing policy of rolling over maturing Treasury 
securities at auction and will reinvest pr incipal payments from its holdings of 
agency securities in Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years . 
OR 
3'. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help en sure that inflation, over time, 
is at levels consistent with the dual  mandate, the Committee decided today to  extend 
the average maturity of it s holdings of securities . The Committee is initiating 
purchases of Treasury securities with rem aining maturities of 6 years to 30 years 
at a pace of about $45 billion per month and will sell Treasury securities with 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 15 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 remaining maturities of 3 years or less at the same pace; the Committee 
anticipates continuing this maturity-exten sion program for up to 9 months.  This 
program should put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and help 
make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will 
regularly review the pace of its securities transactions and the overall size of the 
maturity extension program in light of in coming information and will adjust the 
program as needed to best foster maximum employment and price stability . The 
Committee will maintain its existing policy of rolling over maturing Treasury 
securities at auction and will reinvest pr incipal payments from its holdings of 
agency securities in Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years to 
30 years . 
4. 	The Committee also decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 
¼ percent and currently antic ipates that economic conditi ons—including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are 
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds ra te at least through 
mid-2013.   
5. The Committee [ discussed the range of policy tool s available to promote a stronger 
economic recovery in a contex t of price stability.  It ] will continue to assess the 
economic outlook in light of incoming information and is prepared to employ its tools 
as appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Note:  If policymakers decide it is appropriate to reduce the remuneration rate on 
reserve balances, the Board of Governors would issue an accompanying statement that 
might read: 
In a related action, the Board of Governors vo ted today to reduce the interest rate paid 
on required and excess reserve balances from 25 basis points to 10 basis points 
effective with the reserve maintenan ce period that begins on October 6, 2011. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Page 16 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SEPTEMBER 2011 FOMC STATEMENT —ALTERNATIVE C 
1. 	Information received since the Fe deral Open Market Committee met in August 
indicates that economic growth remains slow . Recent  indicators point to continuing 
weakness  in overall labor market conditions, and the unemployment rate remains 
elevated . Household spending has increased at a modest pace in recent months, 
with sales of new motor vehicles recovering after auto manufacturers made 
progress in restoring their suppl y chains and increased production. Investment in 
nonresidential structures is  still weak, and the housing sector remains depressed. 
 However, business investment in equipm ent and software continues to expand.  
Inflation picked up earlier in the year, ma inly reflecting higher prices for some 
commodities and imported goods, as well as the supply chain disruptions.  More 
recently, inflation has moderated as prices of energy and some commodities have 
declined from their peaks. Longer-term infl ation expectations have remained stable.  
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  Though  downside risks to the economic outlook 
remain , the Committee continues to expect some pickup in the  pace of recovery 
over coming quarters and anticipates that  the unemployment rate will decline 
gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  The Committee also anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other comm odity price increases dissipate further.  
However, the Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over 
time, is at levels consistent with its ma ndate, the Committee decide d today to keep the 
target range for the federal funds rate at  0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee currently 
anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of resource utilization and a 
subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at leas t through mid-2013.  The 
Committee also will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities holdings.  The Committee will regularly  assess the implications of 
incoming information for the economic outlook and will employ its policy tools as 
necessary to foster maximum employment and price stability . 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 17 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
   
                                                 
 
  
  
  
  4 As is the Committee’s usual practice, the draft directive for Alternative B expresses purchases and 
sales in terms of the face value of securities.  Given cu rrent and expected market in terest rates, the market 
prices of most newly purchased longer-term securities likely would exceed their face value; that is, their 
prices would include a premium.  Total premiums on the longer-term securities the Desk would buy likely 
would be about $50 billion larger than the net unamortized premiums on the securities that the Desk would 
sell. Although buying and selling the same face value of securities would keep th e face value of securities 
held in the SOMA portfolio constant at about $2.6 tr illion, the supply of reserve balances would increase by 
an amount equal to the difference in premiums.  If it preferred to avoid an increase in reserve balances, the 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
AlternativesThe Committee, like the staff, may s ee the information received during the 
intermeeting period as pointing to an even more gradual pickup in economic activity over 
the medium run—and so to an even slower reduction in the unemployment rate—than 
was expected at the time of the August mee ting.  In particular, policymakers may note 
that growth remains quite modest even with a reversal of temporar y factors that were 
seen as restraining activity earlier in the ye ar.  They also may view the sharp drop in 
consumer confidence in recent months, the tepid growth in employment, and the 
increasing strains in global financial market s as posing substantial downside risks to the 
economic outlook.  Moreover, they may judge  that the U.S. economy is operating well 
below potential and anticipate that, with en ergy and commodity prices generally having 
declined from earlier peaks, inflation is likel y to subside to levels at or below those 
judged to be most consistent with the dua l mandate.  Accordingly, policymakers might 
conclude that additional policy stimulus  is appropriate at this meeting.   
Committee members might judge that an adjustment in fiscal policy would be 
most helpful in supporting the economic recove ry, but see a negligib le chance of timely 
action on that front. Hence, they may think it beneficial to provide further monetary stimulus by increasing the SOMA’s holdings of  longer-term Treasuries in order to put 
further downward pressure on longer-term in terest rates and c ontribute to more 
accommodative financial conditions.  Even s o, policymakers might be concerned that a 
significant further expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and the supply of 
reserve balances could pose an upside risk to inflation expectations because it might make the public doubt that the Committee will be able to withdraw accommodation in a 
timely fashion.  If so, the Committee may see Alternative B, which would increase the average maturity of the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings while avoiding a significant expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance sh eet, as appropriately balancing the potential 
benefits and costs of addi tional monetary stimulus.
4 
Page 18 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                 
  
 
   
 
 
  Committee could direct the Desk to pu rchase $400 billion in face value of longer-ter m securities and to sell 
enough shorter-term securities to le ave the level of reserve balances essentially unchanged.  Doing so 
would decrease the face value of the SOMA portfolio by about $50 billion.  
5 For additional information about the transmission mechanism and estimated effects of these 
programs, see the memo titled “Possible Approaches to Providing Monetary Accommodation: 
Reinvestment Maturity Extension Program, SOMA Portfolio Maturity Extension Program, and Long-
Maturity LSAP” that was distributed to the Committee on September 12. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011Staff estimates suggest that purchasing $400 billion of Treasur y securities with 
remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years and selling an equal amount of Treasury 
securities with maturities of 3 years or less (along with reinvesting principal payments 
from agency MBS held in the SOMA entirely in Treasury securities with maturities of 6 
years or more) would push down the level of longer-term private interest rates and ease 
financial conditions enough to reduce the unemployment rate by ¼ to ½ percentage point 
at the end of 2013. Staff also estimates th at it would increase PC E inflation by about ¼ 
percentage point over the medium-run.  These estimates, though subject to considerable 
uncertainty, are almost as large as the esti mated effects of the $1 trillion unsterilized 
Treasury purchase program included in Altern ative A.  The smaller maturity extension 
program of Alternative B is estim ated to have nearly the same  effects as the larger asset 
purchase program of Alternative A because the former is structured to buy more 
securities at the longer end of  the term structure and thus results in a more persistent 
reduction in the average maturity  of the publicly held debt.5  While the Desk’s sales of 
shorter-term Treasury securitie s under the maturity extension program might put some 
upward pressure on short-term money market ra tes, any increase would likely be small so 
long as the Committee maintains its forward guidance about the likely future path of the 
federal funds rate. 
Members may be concerned that a matu rity extension program could delay 
normalizing the Federal Reserve’s balance sh eet after the Committee stops reinvesting 
principal payments, because the runoff of Tr easury securities would be much slower.  
However, once it begins moving to a less accommodative stance of policy, the 
Committee could, of course, instruct the Desk to sell securities in order to put total 
holdings on a more rapid downward path.   In addition, policymakers might find 
undesirable the increase in the Federal Reserv e’s exposure to unrealized capital losses 
that would result if the Federal Reserve we re to hold a longer-duration portfolio.  
Nonetheless, they may consider the maturity  extension program in Option B appropriate, 
and be willing to accept the increased risk of  capital losses, if they project persistent 
Alternatives
Page 19 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternativeseconomic weakness and lower-than-target infla tion in the absence of further stimulus— 
particularly if they see the risks to the alr eady weak outlook as tilted to the downside.   
Staff analysis and academic research suggests that more forceful forward 
guidance such as that included in Alternativ e A could also reduce longer-term rates and 
provide economic stimulus.  Policymakers ma y, however, find it premature to alter the 
forward guidance in such a significant manne r; they may want to consider possible 
changes to their forward guidance in the context of a broader discussion of the 
Committee’s policy framework before making any changes.  They may also believe that 
any change in forward guidance that involve s explicit numerical values for the mandate-
consistent rates of inflation and unemploym ent over the longer-term will need to be 
explained carefully, a process that could take  some time.  In particular, policymakers 
might worry that the forward guidance in Alte rnative A, if adopted without careful prior 
communication, would be more likely to result in higher expected and actual inflation 
than in faster real growth. If so, they might  anticipate that a statement along the lines of 
Alternative A would quickly ra ise longer-run inflati on expectations, or that the inflation 
threshold in Alternative A would be triggered in fairly short order. 
Some Committee members may see potential benefits from reducing the interest 
rate paid on required and excess reserve bala nces to 10 basis points.  Doing so would 
better align that rate with shor t-term money market rates and thus might serve as a useful 
complement to the Committee’s forward guidance.  In addition, reducing this rate 
probably would put downward pressure on a range of overnight and very-short-term 
money market rates, poten tially leading some investor s to buy somewhat-longer-term 
money market instruments; such behavior could lessen any upward pressure on short-
term rates that might result from the sales associated with the maturity extension 
program.  However, other members may see a further reduction in very-short-term rates 
as likely to  accelerate outflows from mone y market mutual funds, potentially reducing 
firms’ ability to issue commercial paper or fund securities holdings.  Cutting the 
remuneration rate on excess reserves clearly would reduce depository institution’s 
incentive to borrow federal funds and hold ex cess reserves, likely re sulting in a further 
reduction in trading volume in the federal funds market and potentially in greater 
volatility in the effective federal funds ra te.  Moreover, while banks might respond by 
making more loans as excess reserves became a less attractive investment, they might instead impose greater fees on deposit accounts.   If participants ge nerally thought that a 
reduction in the remuneration rates would be helpful, on balance, the Board could adopt 
Page 20 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
                                                 
  
    
 6 On average, respondents also an ticipated that an “operation twist” maturity extension program would 
involve buying securities with maturities of 6 to 26 years and selling securities with maturities of 6 months 
to roughly 3 years.  These parameters are close to those in Alternative B. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011such a reduction and that step could be noted  in the press release containing the FOMC 
statement.   
A statement along the lines of  Alternative B would be br oadly in line with market 
expectations. Most respondents to the Desk’s recent survey of primary dealers indicated 
that they expect the FOMC to announce a maturity extension program, most likely in the 
form of buying longer-term and selling shorter-term Treasury securities rather than solely 
by adjusting the reinvestment policy.  On average, respondents saw about a 75 percent 
probability that the Committee would announce a maturity extension program within a 
year. Averaging across respondents, the expe cted size of a maturity extension program, 
conditional on one being put in place, was $375 billion spread over 6½  months.6 In 
contrast, they assigned about a 30 percent proba bility to a change in  the forward guidance 
within a year. On average respondents saw a 30 percent probabil ity of a cut in the 
remuneration rate on required and excess reserves.  Conditional on a cut occurring, 
respondents anticipated that the new level would be 10 basis points.  While some market 
participants would be surprise d by the timing of a statement lik e that in Alternative B, the 
responses to the dealer survey, along with  market commentary, suggest that investors 
have already priced in much of the effect of  a maturity extension program.  Accordingly, 
an announcement along the lines of Alternative B likely would have only a modest further effect on asset prices—bond yields might decline a bit, the foreign exchange value 
of the dollar slip, and equity  prices edge higher—unless th e Desk’s announcement of the 
details of the maturity exchange program indicated that the Committee would remove 
appreciably more or appreciably less durati on from the public’s portfolio than investors 
expected. If the interest rate on excess reserves were reduced, or if the statement 
included the bracketed language in the fina l paragraph—language that suggests the 
likelihood of additional steps to  spur a stronger recovery if growth does not pick up 
noticeably, the decline in yields likely would be somewhat larger. 
Policymakers may view the information received since the August meeting as 
confirmi 
ng that additional policy accommodation is needed to promote outcomes that are 
more consistent with the Federal Reserve’s du al mandate.  In particular, they may regard 
Alternatives
Page 21 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternativesthe recent data on household spending and la bor markets as strong evidence that the 
reasons for slow economic growth in 2011 go well beyond the transitory factors noted in 
recent statements.  They may also see a ti ghtening of fiscal policy as likely and be 
concerned about its adverse effects on econom ic activity and employment in the medium 
run. Against this backdrop, policymakers may have significantly downgraded their 
assessments of the near- and medium-term economic outlook, perhaps even to the point 
of projecting that the U.S. economy could slip into a new downturn, as in the “Recession” 
alternative simulation of Tealbook Part A.  Mo reover, the risk of a significant financial 
dislocation in Europe appears to have incr eased in recent weeks, and the Committee may 
judge that such an outcome could spill over to the U.S. financial system and have important negative implications for the U.S.  outlook, as detailed in the “Very Severe 
Financial Stress in Europe” simulation.   
In addition, some participants may now anticipate little re duction in slack in labor 
markets over coming quarters, and so may exp ect greater restraint on wages and prices 
than they anticipated earlier.  If they also  see large negative ri sks to the outlook for 
growth, they may now view the main risk to  inflation over the proj ection period as being 
to the downside, with significant odds that inflation will fall below mandate-consistent 
levels for a substantial period. 
Committee members may judge that an unsterilized asset purchase program 
would be more effective in spurring growth and keeping inflation close to mandate-consistent levels than would a maturity  extension program.  Members might, for 
example, anticipate that increased reserve ba lances would impart some further downward 
pressure on money market rates and enc ourage banks to expand lending.  Moreover, 
policymakers may be confident that a larger  balance sheet would not preclude a timely 
increase in the federal funds rate wh en economic conditions warrant a less 
accommodative stance of policy. 
Accordingly, policymakers may conclude that both the maximum employment 
and price stability elements of the dual  mandate justify action along the lines of 
Alternative A.  That is, they may judge that not only is increased monetary policy accommodation necessary, but that with the federal funds rate constrained by the zero lower bound and with downside risks to bot h output and inflation rising, it would be 
prudent to undertake a third large-scale as set purchase program and to issue stronger 
forward guidance. If policymakers see grow ing public uncertainty that the expansion 
Page 22 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011will continue—much less strengthen—as contributing significantly to the weakness in 
household spending and to firms’ continuing reluctance to hire new workers, they may judge that the policy actions in Alternative A, in comb ination, would reinforce the 
public’s confidence in the Committee’s commitment to strengthen the recovery.   
As noted in the discussion of Alternativ e B, staff analysis of various asset 
purchase programs suggests that the program in  Alternative A might be expected to ease 
financial conditions enough to reduce the unemployment rate by ¼ to ½ percentage point 
at the end of 2013, and to increase PCE infl ation by about ¼ percentage point over the 
medium run.  Adding the estimated effects of the asset purchase progr am to the extended 
version of the staff’s baseline forecast resu lts in projected paths for unemployment and 
inflation that have the unemployment rate at or above 6 percent at the end of 2015 and 
that leave PCE inflation somewhat below 2 percent.  These estimates and the staff forecast are, of course, subject to considerable  uncertainty, and there clearly is some risk 
that inflation could rise a bove 2 percent over the medium run.  Policymakers may find 
that risk acceptable if they project that infla tion is more likely to decline than to increase, 
and that progress toward maximum employment  is likely to be unacceptably slow, in the 
absence of further monetary stimulus.  
Staff analysis suggests that forward guidance could provide significant additional 
stimulus if it credibly signaled that the Committee would be more accommodative than the public already anticipated.  To a degree, more stimulus could result from giving 
economic agents information that changes their views about the conditions that will 
govern the onset of tightening, if that additi onal information leads them to anticipate a 
more prolonged period of near-zero rates than  they now expect.  (Forward guidance could 
reduce longer-term yields more, and thus have larger macroeconomic effects, if the 
Committee also were to indicate that, once it begins to tighten, it intends to raise rates 
less rapidly than the public now anticipates.)  Although the staff forecast of economic activity and inflation, in combination with the estimated outcomes-based rule, suggests 
that the target rang e for the federal funds rate will be unchanged through mid-2014, more 
than half of the respondents to the Desk su rvey indicated that they expect the first 
increase in the federal funds  rate target to occur by the end of 2013.  On average, 
respondents to the latest dealer survey indi cated that they expect ed the unemployment 
rate to be 8 percent and the 12-month PCE infl ation rate to be a bit above 2 percent when 
the Committee first raises its target for the f unds rate.  Thus, if the Committee were to 
state that it currently does not anticipate raising the federal funds rate before the 
Alternatives
Page 23 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternativesunemployment rate reaches 7 perc ent or the inflation rate re aches 2½ percent, and that it 
does not expect those thresholds to be breached before the end of 2014, as in the draft of 
Alternative A, that announcemen t could lower market expectations of short-term interest 
rates beyond 2013 and so put downward pressu re on longer-term interest rates and 
upward pressure on asset prices. In addition, by giving market particip ants greater clarity 
about the economic conditions that the Committee judges would be likely to warrant 
raising the target for the federal funds rate , a statement along the li nes of Alternative A 
could prevent medium- and longer-term rates from rising too soon or  too quickly as the 
recovery progresses. 
The combination of more aggressive forward guidance and the initiation of 
another unsterilized large-scale asset purch ase program would come as a significant 
surprise to market participants.  Respondent s to the Desk’s dealer survey saw a roughly 
30 percent chance of a substant ial change in the Committee’s forward guidance within a 
year, and they assigned a probability of a bout 40 percent to the Committee undertaking  a 
new large-scale asset-purchase program over the same period.  Moreover, conditional on 
the FOMC adopting an unsterilized asset-pu rchase  program, respondents expected, on 
average, that purchases would total about  $600 billion, significan tly less than the $1 
trillion in Alternative A.  Accordingly, the co mbination of policy acti ons in Alternative A 
likely would result in a drop in longer-t erm yields, although the decline might be 
restrained if investors perceived the statement as adding to the upside risks to inflation. 
Equity prices probably would rise, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar likely 
decline. The asset purchase program alone likely would have much smaller effects, given 
that investors appear to have  already priced in a maturity  extension program that would 
reduce the average duration of th e publicly held debt nearly as much as would the asset 
purchases contained in Alternative A. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Although information received since the Augus t meeting suggests th at the pace of 
recovery has picked up only modestly, Committee members may see the increase in motor vehicle production and sales that accomp anied the easing of supply side constraints 
as supporting the view that growth will incr ease more substantia lly as the temporary 
factors that damped growth earlier in the year  continue to fade.  In particular, they may 
continue to think it highly likely that output  and employment growth will strengthen 
more than projected in the staff’s baseline fo recast, perhaps along the lines of the “Faster 
Page 24 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011Snapback” alternative simulati on, though perhaps not as quickly  as they had anticipated 
at the time of the August FOMC meeting.  Alte rnatively, they may judge that it would be 
prudent to gauge the extent to which gr owth picks up before deciding whether to 
undertake new asset purchases. 
Even if policymakers see the downside risks to the outlook for economic growth 
as having increased, they may be lieve that it is prudent to wait for additional information 
bearing on the medium-term outlook before acting to increase the degree of policy 
accommodation.  Moreover, Committee members may judge that liquidity facilities are 
better tools for addressing financial strains and the downside risks that such strains pose 
to the economy than are asse t purchases or forward guidanc e about monetary policy.  If 
so, they may judge that further monetary polic y stimulus is, currently, not appropriate and 
so favor a statement along the lines of Alternative C.   
Policymakers may believe that monetary policy actions taken over the past year 
have already put in place sufficient support for the economic recovery.  Moreover, they 
might be concerned that a significant further expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance 
sheet and the supply of reserve balances woul d pose too large a risk that the Committee 
might be unable to withdraw accommodation in a timely fashion.  In addition, some 
Committee members may see a sizable risk that further monetary stimulus would be more 
likely to result in higher inflation than in faster growth because they judge that the 
housing and financial shocks the economy suff ered in recent years have resulted in a 
persistent structural mismatch in labor mark ets that has made both the level of potential 
output and its growth rate over the medium term lower than the staff estimates, as in the 
“Greater Supply-Side Damage” simulation.  Some members might see the increase in 
measures of core inflation earlier this year as  consistent with this assessment.  Some may 
also be concerned that additional monetary  accommodation would result in distortions of 
asset prices that could have adverse consequences for monetary and financial stability.  
Committee members may judge that the mo st important contribution monetary 
policy can make at this point is to ensure that longer-term inflation expectations remain 
stable. They may see this as helping not onl y to ensure that inflation is at mandate-
consistent levels over the medium term but  also to provide a stable background for a 
sustainable recovery in real  activity.  Moreover, they may judge that the Committee’s 
past actions are likely to l eave inflation, over the medium run, at the high end of the 
range that is consistent with  the dual mandate.  And they may conclude that further large­
Alternatives
Page 25 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternativesscale asset purchases, whether sterilized or not, or statements indicating that the 
Committee will accept higher than 2 percent in flation even temporarily, would pose an 
unacceptably large risk to the stability of inflation expect ations, as in the “Greater 
Supply-Side Damage with Higher Inflation Expectations” alternative simulation.   
Some Committee members may believe that maintaining the current stance of 
policy is appropriate even though they anticip ate only a gradual recovery.  They might 
judge that the potential co sts of providing more specific forward guidance or of 
increasing the size or average maturity of  the SOMA portfolio, outweigh the likely 
benefits.  Even if the Committee’s forward guidance contained nu merical thresholds, 
policymakers might be concerned that extending  the date in that forward guidance could 
make it difficult to adjust policy sufficientl y rapidly if growth picks up quickly and 
inflation does not decline as expected. Si milarly, they may worry that it would be 
difficult to reverse a new asset purchase program or a maturity  extension program in such 
circumstances.   
If Committee members anticipate a stronger medium-term pickup in real activity 
than envisioned by the staff’s baseline scenario, or if they judge it likely that the level and 
growth rate of potential output  are appreciably lower than the staff estimates, they may 
see a significant risk that inflation will incr ease even without further monetary stimulus.  
If so, they may judge it appropriate to modi fy the statement so as to provide a greater 
degree of flexibility to tighten policy in  response to economic developments.  In 
particular, if growth picks up strongly and rates of resource utilization increase steadily, 
some members may judge it appropriate to begin withdrawing monetary policy 
accommodation well before mid-2013 even though unemployment, at the time, might not 
yet be approaching the staff’s estimate of its longer-run, mandate-consistent level.  These 
policymakers may favor a statement that include s the final sentence of Alternative C, in 
which the Committee would state that it “will regularly assess the implications of 
incoming information for the economic outlook and will employ its policy tools as 
necessary to foster maximum employment and price stability,” rather than a statement 
that indicates the Committee is prepared to  employ its policy tools to promote a stronger 
recovery. 
A statement like that in Alternative C w ould surprise market participants, who 
appear to expect that the Committee will either act to provide more stimulus or indicate that it is preparing to take such action soon unless the recovery stre ngthens.  Longer-term 
Page 26 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011interest rates likely would incr ease.  Stock prices likely w ould decline, and the foreign 
exchange value of the dolla r probably would increase. 
Alternatives
Page 27 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
     
 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE 
The staff has prepared three scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy alternatives presente d above:  A baseline scenario corresponding 
to Alternative B, and two a dditional scenarios corresponding to  Alternatives A and C.  
Projections under each scenario  are based on assumptions ab out various components of 
the balance sheet. Details of these assump tions, as well as projections for each major 
component of the balance sheet,  can be found in Explanatory Note C.  Consistent with 
the staff’s forecast, the three sc enarios assume that the target federal funds rate lifts off in 
the third quarter of 2014. 
For the scenario that corresponds to Alte rnative B, the Committee is assumed to 
sell $400 billion (par value) of Treasury securiti es with remaining maturities of 3 years or 
less and purchase the same amount of securities  with remaining maturities of 6 years or 
more over a nine-month period.  It is also  assumed that the Committee reinvests the 
proceeds from principal repayments from its hol dings of agency securities into Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of 6 y ears or more, while Treasury securities that 
mature are reinvested at auction followi ng the Desk’s current practice to purchase 
proportionally across all securities that ar e being issued until March 2014.  Until that 
time, System Open Market Account (SOMA) security holdings remain constant at 
roughly $2.6 trillion, and the size of the bala nce sheet, which includes other assets in 
addition to the SOMA portfolio, holds roughl y steady at about $2.9 trillion.  In March 
2014, six months before the assumed first incr ease in the target federal funds rate, 
reinvestment ceases, and the balance sheet be gins to contract.  In March 2015, roughly 
Page 28 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
                                                 
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
     7 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the volume of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five-year period is minimal. 
8 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurc hase agreements and the Term Deposit Facility) are 
not modeled in any of the scenarios presented.  Use of these tools would result in a shift in the composition 
of Federal Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corresponding increase in term reverse repurchase agreements or term deposits—but would not produce an overall change in the size of the balance sheet. 
9 The assumed timing of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet depends importantly on the 
assumed level of reserve balances that is consistent w ith the conduct of monetary policy, which we take as 
$25 billion.  A higher level of such reserve balances would, all else equal, lead to an earlier normalization of the size of the balance sheet. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011six months after the assumed first increase in  the target federal funds rate, the Committee 
begins to sell its remaining holdings of agency  MBS and agency debt securities at a pace 
that reduces the amount of these securities in the portfolio to zero in  five years—that is, 
by February 2020.7,8  This action, along with the ce ssation of reinvestment, normalizes 
the size of the balance sheet by March 2018.9 
After reserve balances have reached th e assumed $25 billion floor, the balance 
sheet begins to expand, with increases in holdings of Treasury s ecurities essentially 
matching the growth of Federal Reserve capita l and notes in circul ation.  The balance 
sheet reaches a size of $2 trillion by the end of 2020. 
In the scenario corresponding to Alternative A, the Committee is assumed to 
purchase an additional $1 tril lion of longer-term Treasury secu rities over twelve months.  
In addition, until six months prior to the lift off in the target fede ral funds rate, it is 
assumed that principal payments on agency securities are reinvested in longer-term 
Treasuries, while Treasury securities that ma ture are reinvested at auction.  Sales of 
agency securities commence six months after th e lift off in the target federal funds rate 
and reduce holdings to zero over five years.  As a result of th is policy action, SOMA 
holdings peak at $3.6 trillion and total asse ts reach $4 trillion in September 2012.  The 
higher path for SOMA under Alternative A pos tpones the normalization of the size of the 
balance sheet relative to the baseline. 
For the scenario that corresponds to Alte rnative C, we assume that the Committee 
continues to reinvest the proceeds from ma turing Treasury securities at auction and 
reinvests payments of principal from agency securities in Treasury securities using the 
Desk’s current maturity distribution for pur chases.  Reinvestment of principal from 
maturing or prepaying securities ends at the same time as in the baseline.  Likewise, sales 
of agency securities under Alternative C comme nce at the same time as in the baseline, 
Alternatives
Page 29 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternativesand these sales also last for five years. However, because the por tfolio is made up of 
relatively shorter-term Treasury securities unde r Alternative C than in the baseline, the 
pace at which securities roll off the portfolio is a bit faster.  The normalization of the size 
of the balance sheet occurs in March 2017, tw elve months sooner than in the baseline. 
Compared with the August Tealbook baseline projection, total assets in the 
current projections do not begin to declin e noticeably until March 2014, thirteen months 
later than the August ba seline, because of the projected later lift off of the target federal 
funds rate, which determines when reinvest ment of principal is assumed to cease and 
when asset sales are assumed to begin.  For Alternative C, the path for total assets 
roughly parallels that of the August Teal book baseline.  Under Alternative B, the 
Treasury portfolio has a longer weighted aver age maturity and therefore runs off more 
slowly than in the August Tealbook. Finally, the path for total a ssets under Alternative 
A remains noticeably above the trajectory in the August Tealbook because of the large 
scale asset purchase program.  From June 2018 onward, the paths for total assets in the 
current projections align with the path in the August Tealbook. 
Consistent with the higher level of assets, on the liability side of  the balance sheet, 
the forecasted paths for reserve balances are hi gher in the current projections than in the 
previous Tealbook until reserve ba lances fall to $25 billion.  U nder Alternative A, reserve 
balances peak at $2.7 trillion—roughly $1 trillio n higher than in all other scenarios—by 
the end of the large scale asset purchase pr ogram.  Subsequently, the path for reserve 
balances under Alternative A falls to $25 b illion in May 2018—three months later than 
under Alternative B and fifteen months  later than under Alternative C. 
In the scenario corresponding to Alternativ e B, the monetary base is projected to 
start contracting in the fourth quarter of  2012 and it continues to  contract through the 
second quarter of 2018, reflecting the decline in reserve balances.  Starting in the middle 
of 2018, after reserve balances are assumed to  have stabilized at $25 billion, the monetary 
base expands again, in line with the growth of Federal Reserve capital and notes in 
circulation. 
Page 30 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
     
  Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternative B Alternative A Alternative C Memo : 
August 
Tealbook 
Percent, annual rate 
Monthly 
Aug-10 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 -2.4 
Sep-10 -10.2 -10.2 -10.2 -10.2 
Oct-10 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 -9.8 
Nov-10 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 
Dec-10 16.8 16.8 16.8 16.8 
Jan-11 23.3 23.3 23.3 23.3 
Feb-11 57.6 57.6 57.6 57.6 
Mar-11 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 
Apr-11 74.4 74.4 74.4 74.4 
May-11 42.1 42.1 42.1 42.1 
Jun-11 35.9 35.9 35.9 35.9 
Jul-11 27.0 27.0 27.0 26.9 
Aug-11 3.6 3.6 3.6 16.2 Sep-11 -10.3 -9.9 -10.2 -0.5 
Oct-11 2.2 23.4 1.0 -2.9 
Nov-11 15.2 55.3 12.1 10.2 
Dec-11 4.5 42.2 0.7 -1.0 
Quarterly 
2010 Q3 -6.4 -6.4 -6.4 -6.4 
2010 Q4 -3.2 -3.2 -3.2 -3.2 
2011 Q1 36.8 36.8 36.8 36.8 
2011 Q2 69.4 69.4 69.4 69.4 
2011 Q3 21.4 21.5 21.5 25.5 
2011 Q4 2.7 23.4 1.2 2.9 
2012 Q1 12.5 49.4 8.6 6.6 
2012 Q2 7.7 39.1 4.2 3.9 
Annual - Q4 to Q4 
2009 52.5 52.5 52.5 52.5 2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 
2011 35.9 42.9 35.4 37.3 
2012 5.0 37.0 2.6 2.3 
2013 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -12.5 
2014 -4.9 -8.3 -9.4 -15.4 
2015 -9.3 -13.2 -15.0 -22.1 
Note: Not seasonally adjusted. 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 31 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
AlternativesDEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS 
Domestic nonfinancial sector  debt is projected to incr ease at an annual rate of 
about 5 percent over the sec ond half of the year, driven  by significant expansion in 
federal government debt and a modest rise in private nonfinancial debt.  Over 2012 and 
2013, domestic nonfinancial sector debt is expected to rise at about a 4½ percent pace, on 
average, led by 8 percent grow th in government debt (fed eral and state and local).  
Nonfinancial business debt is forecasted to  rise at a moderate pace over the projection 
period, in part reflecting furthe r increases in capital expenditu res.  Despite low mortgage 
rates, home mortgage debt is projected to c ontract further in 2011 and then to be about 
flat through 2013. The outlook for mortgage debt reflects the expected continued 
weakness in the housing sector and tight lending standards that are anticipated to ease 
only slowly. Consumer credit is projected to post small gains this quarter and next, 
limited by tepid growth in consumer durable s expenditures, but then to gradually 
accelerate over the remainder of the forecast period.   
Commercial bank credit is expected to increase modestly over the second half of 
2011, supported by a moderate expansion in banks’ securities holdings and somewhat weaker growth in loans.  Core loans—whic h include commercial and industrial (C&I) 
loans, real estate loans, and consumer lo ans—are expected to expand very slowly until 
the middle of 2012.  The sluggish expansion in co re loans reflects weak ness in real estate 
lending that partially offsets moderate gain s in C&I and consumer loans against the 
backdrop of ongoing balance sheet adjustments, still-stringent lending standards, and a 
lack of loan demand from high-quality borrowers .  Over the rest of the forecast period, 
however, these restraining factors are expected  to abate, supporting a gradual acceleration 
of bank credit. C&I loans ar e projected to increase steadily  through 2013 as a result of a 
continued rise in outlays on equipment and soft ware as well as a further gradual easing of 
banks’ lending standards and terms for such lo ans.  In contrast, lending to businesses 
backed by commercial real estate is e xpected to contract  through 2013, primarily 
reflecting poor market fundamentals and the weak credit quality of ex isting loans that is 
projected to improve only slowly over time. Turning to household lending, residential 
real estate loans are expected to remain about flat thr ough 2012 and to edge up in 2013 
amid continued weakness in housing demand and relatively tight lending standards.  
Consumer loans are projected to increase m odestly through 2012 and to strengthen over 
the rest of the forecast horizon, driven largely by a pickup in spending on consumer 
Page 32 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011durables. Banks’ securities holdings are anticipated to expand at a moderate pace 
through the forecast period. 
After growing rapidly in July and August,  mostly because of factors that are 
expected to reverse eventually (as discusse d in the Financial Deve lopments section in 
Tealbook Book A), M2 is projected to grow at  an annual rate of about 2½ percent over 
the forecast period.  This forecast assumes that households, institutional investors, and 
asset managers slowly shift their portfolios away from M2 assets  and toward riskier 
assets outside of M2 as the economic rec overy gains traction.  However, continued 
turmoil in global financial markets could slow projected flows out of monetary assets and 
into riskier investments over the next seve ral months.  Within M2, liquid deposits are 
projected to expand at a moderate pace over the forecast period, while retail money 
market mutual funds and small time deposits are anticipated to contract.  Currency is 
expected to expand at around its long-run average rate over the forecast period.   
Alternatives
Page 33 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
     
 
 M2 Growth Rates 
(percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast* 
Jan-11 3.3 
Feb-11 8.4 
Mar-11 3.8 
Apr-11 4.8 
May-11 7.5 
Jun-11 12.2 
Jul-11 26.6 
Aug-11 29.8 
Sep-11 3.9 
Oct-11 -2.1 
Nov-11 -2.2 
Dec-11 -2.1 
Quarterly Growth Rates 
2011 Q1 5.0 
2011 Q2 6.4 
2011 Q3 19.8 
2011 Q4 2.7 
Annual Growth Rates 
2010 3.2 
2011 8.7 
2012 1.9 
2013 3.2 
* This forecast is consistent with nominal GDP and interest rates in the 
Tealbook forecast. Actual data through August 2011; projections thereafter. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 34 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011DIRECTIVE 
The August directive app ears below.  Drafts for a September directive 
corresponding to each of the three policy altern atives appear on subsequent pages.  The 
directive for Alternative A would instruct the Desk to purchase longer-term Treasury 
securities to increase the to tal face value of domestic securi ties holdings to approximately 
$3.6 trillion. The Directive for Alternative B wo uld instruct the Desk to take appropriate 
steps to purchase $400 billion of Treasury secu rities with remaining maturities of 6 to 30 
years and to sell an equal amount of existing Treasury holdings with remaining maturities 
of 3 years or less so as to increase the average maturity of the SOMA portfolio while 
leaving the total face value of domestic s ecurities in the SOMA about unchanged.  The 
Directives for Alternatives A and B also woul d instruct the Desk to  continue the current 
practice of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues at auction, but would 
instruct the Desk to reinve st principal payments from agency MBS in longer-term 
Treasury securities. The directive for Alterna tive C would instruct the Desk to keep the 
total face value of domestic securities hol dings at approximately $2.6 trillion and to 
continue the current policy of re investing principal payments.   
August 2011 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee also directs the 
Desk to maintain its existing policy of re investing principal payments on all domestic 
securities in the System Open Market Account  in Treasury securities in order to maintain 
the total face value of domestic securities  at approximately $2.6 trillion. The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secr etary will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System's  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
Alternatives
Page 35 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
   
 
  September 2011 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range  from 0 to 1/4 percent.  The Committee directs the Desk 
to purchase, by the end of September 2012, longer-term Treasury securities with a 
total face value of $1 trillion in order to increase the total face value of domestic 
securities in the System Open Market  Account to approximately $3.6 trillion. The 
Committee also directs the Desk to maintain  its existing policy of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities into new issues and to reinvest principal payments on all agency 
securities in the System Open Market Account in longer-term Treasury securities. The 
System Open Market Account Manager a nd the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee' s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 36 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
  
   6HSWHPEHU 2011 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range  from 0 to 1/4 percent.  The Committee directs the Desk 
to purchase, by the end of June 2012, Treasu ry securities with remaining maturities 
of approximately 6 years to 30 years with a total face value of $400 billion, and to 
sell Treasury securities with remaining maturi ties of 3 years or less with a total face 
value of $400 billion. The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing 
policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securi ties into new issues and to reinvest 
principal payments on all agency securities  in the System Open Market Account in 
Treasury securities with remaining maturities of a pproximately 6 years to 30 years  in 
order to maintain the total face value of dome stic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion. 
The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee' s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
OR 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range  from 0 to 1/4 percent.  The Committee directs the Desk 
to purchase approximately $45 billion (face va lue) per month of Treasury securities 
with remaining maturities of approxima tely 6 years to 30 years, and to sell 
approximately the same amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 
3 years or less. The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policy of 
rolling over maturing Treasury se curities into new issues and to reinvest principal 
payments on all agency securities in the System Open Market Account in Treasury 
securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 years  in order to 
maintain the total face value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion. The 
System Open Market Account Manager a nd the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee' s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Alternatives
Page 37 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
AlternativesSeptember 2011 FOMC Dir ective — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent.  The Committee also directs the 
Desk to maintain its existing policy of re investing principal payments on all domestic 
securities in the System Open Market Account  in Treasury securities in order to maintain 
the total face value of domestic securities  at approximately $2.6 trillion. The System 
Open Market Account Manager and the Secr etary will keep the Committee informed of 
ongoing developments regarding the System's  balance sheet that  could affect the 
attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price 
stability. 
Page 38 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
  
 
 
 
 
 Measure 	 Description 
The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
Single-equation based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
Model value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six Small variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, Structural the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal Model funds rate. 
Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy— 
EDO Model		 depend on data for major spending cat egories, prices and wages, and the 
federal funds rate as well as the model’s structure and estimate of the output 
gap. 
Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of FRB/US Model economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the 
model’s exogenous variables. 
Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Tealbook- Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
consistent simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the extended baseline. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011Explanatory Notes
	
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The concepts of the equilibrium real rate  reported in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate,” are defined as the level of the real federal funds rate th at is consistent with 
output at potential within a specified time horizon.  The short-run equilibrium rate is defined as 
the rate that would close the output gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal funds rate 
projected to prevail in seven years, under the assu mption that monetary policy acts to bring actual 
and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps them equal thereafter. 
Explanatory Notes
Page 39 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
  
  
 Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor, arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
 
 
  
  
  Proxy used for 
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current value) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Projected real 
funds rate 
(twelve-quarter-
ahead average) 
Lagged core inflation 1.1 3.5 1.4 
Lagged headline 
inflation 2.4 3.7 1.5 
Projected headline inflation 1.0 3.4 1.2 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the federal 
funds rate and the trailing four-qua rter change in the core PCE pri ce index.  The federal funds rate 
is specified as the target federal funds rate on the Tealbook Book B publication date. 
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on the proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimates of the real federa l funds rates using alternative proxies:  lagged 
core PCE inflation, which is used to construct th e actual real federal funds rate shown in the table 
that displays the r* measures; lagged four-quarter headline PCE inflation; and projected four-
quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  The table also displays the 
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate and the 
average of the projected real federal funds rate  over the next twelve quarters using each of the 
different proxies for expected inflation. 
Explanatory Notes
Page 40 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
  RULE SPECIFICATIONS 
 
  
 
    
  
        
  
        
 
 
   
 , while the right-  denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t ௧݅ For the following rules,
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
௧ାଵכെ ݕ௧ ௧ାଵݕand כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕ one quarter ahead ( 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ| |௧), and the forecast of three-quarter-ahead annual 
כ
|௧ െ Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧), and π* denotes an assumed value 
of policymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  The outcome-based and forecast-based rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the sample 1988:1 2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion.  Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point increments during the first three quarters of 
1998. The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003). 
0.19൅௧ିଶ 1.20ൌ௧݅ ௧ିଵ െ 0.39 1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵכെݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72െሻכ
௧െݕ௧ݕሺ3.66൅ 
|
ሿ௧ିଵכെݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37൯െ ݅݅ ሾ
Outcome-based rule
	ሻሿ 
݅௧ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38
 ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20
כ
௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ ݅ ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ ௧
ሻForecast-based rule
	
|
Taylor (1993) rule 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅ ሻכ
௧െݕ௧ݕሺ൅ሻכെߨ௧ߨሺ0.5൅௧൅ߨ2ൌ௧ 
First-difference rule ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷݕସሺ߂0.5൯൅כെߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ ሻכ
௧െݕ௧ݕሺ0.5൅ሻכെߨ௧ߨሺ0.5൅௧൅ߨ2ൌ௧݅
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
Explanatory Notes
FRB/US MODEL SIMULATIONS 
Prescriptions from the outcome-based  rule are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting. The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969 2008. 
Page 41 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Explanatory NotesINFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL MARKETS 
The expected funds rate path is based on quotes for federal funds and Eurodollar futures 
as well as implied three-month forward rates from swaps, and the confidence intervals for this 
path are constructed using prices of interest rate  caps.  The computations use the staff’s baseline 
assumptions about term premiums. 
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES 
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap. The first-difference rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the estimated forecast-based 
rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-ha nd-side variable. When the Tealbook is published 
early in the quarter, the lines denoted “Previous  Tealbook” report rule prescriptions based on the 
previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in 
the previous quarter. When the Tealbook is publ ished late in the quarter, the lines denoted 
“Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescrip tions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff 
outlook, but jumping off from th e average value for the policy rate thus far this quarter 
REFERENCES 
Taylor, John B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214. 
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules. University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341. 
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
Page 42 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
                                                 
  
 
   
 1 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities woul d change: Reserve balances would fall as term 
deposits and reverse repurchase agreements rose.  Presumably, these draining tools would be wound down 
as the balance sheet returned to its steady state gr owth path, so that the pr ojected paths for Treasury 
securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
2 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflect interest rates as of September 14, 2011. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011C. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section titled “Long-Run Projections of the Bala nce Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS 
The balance sheet projections are construc ted at a monthly frequency from September 
2011 to December 2020.  The few balance sheet ite ms that are not discussed below are assumed 
to be constant over the projection period at the level observed on August 31, 2011.  The 
projections for all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the 
tables that follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the target federal funds rate begins to increase in 
September 2014, thirteen months later than in the August Tealbook.  The balance sheet 
projections assume that no use of short-term draining tools is necessary to achieve the projected 
path for the federal funds rate.1 
ASSETS 
Treasury Securities, Agency Mortgage-Backe d Securities (MBS), and Agency Debt 
Securities 
	 The assumptions under Alternative B are: 
o	 Beginning in October 2011, the FOMC is assumed to sell $400 billion in par 
value of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less and to 
purchase the same par amount of Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years or more.  This activity takes place over 9 months.  It is also assumed that the FOMC will reinvest the proceeds from principal repayments from its agency 
securities holdings into Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years 
or more, while Treasury securities are rolled over at auction. 
o	 Principal payments from Treasury securiti es and agency MBS and agency debt 
securities are reinvested in longer-term Treasury securities until March 2014— six months prior to the assumed increase in the target federal funds rate.
2 
o	 The Federal Reserve begins to sell agen cy MBS and agency debt securities in 
March 2015, roughly six months after the assumed date of the first increase in the 
Explanatory Notes
Page 43 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011target federal funds rate.  Holdings of agency securities are reduced over five 
years and reach zero by February 2020. 
Explanatory Notes
o	 For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment  is based on estimates of housing market 
factors from one of the program’s investment managers and interest rate projections from the Tealbook.  The projected rate of prepayment is sensitive to these underlying assumptions. 
 	 In the scenario corresponding to Alternative A, the Committee is assumed to purchase an 
additional $1 trillion of longer-term Treasury securities over twelve months.  In addition, 
it is assumed that the principal payments on agency MBS and agency debt securities are 
reinvested in longer-term Treasury securities,  while Treasury securities that mature are 
reinvested at auction. 
	 In the scenario corresponding to Alternativ e C, principal payments from Treasury 
securities continue to be reinvested at auction and principal payments from agency MBS and agency debt securities are reinvested in Treasury securities using the Desk’s current maturity distribution for purchases.   
	 Because current and expected near-term ra tes are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at which these securities are purchased will generally exceed their face value. As a result, although the par value of securities 
holdings remains constant under Alternative B,  total assets, which include the premiums 
associated with the securities, will rise by about $50 billion.  Reserve balances will increase by the same amount.  
 	 The lower paths for interest rates under the scenarios corresponding to Alternatives A and 
B implies more MBS prepayments and therefore reduced MBS holdings over the forecast period relative to Alternative C. The lower paths for interest rates also implies that 
purchases of Treasury securities in Alternatives A and B will be made at prices that include a premium above their face value that exceeds the premium under Alternative C. 
	 In all scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  Once reserve 
balances drop to this level, the Desk first purchases Treasury bills to maintain this level 
going forward. Purchases of bills continue  until these securities comprise one-third of the 
Federal Reserve’s total Treasury security hol dings–about the average share prior to the 
crisis. Once this level is reached, the Federa l Reserve buys notes a nd bonds in addition to 
bills to maintain an approximate composition of the portfolio of one-third bills and two-
thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
	 Loans through the Term Asset -Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) peaked at $48 
billion in December 2009.  Credit extended thro ugh this facility declines to zero by the 
end of 2015, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
 	 The assets held by TALF LLC remain at about  $1 billion through 2014  before declining 
to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF LLC consist of investments of 
Page 44 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
  
  
   
 3 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of both 
the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Tr easury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are only $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is used as a 
proxy for the level of TGA balances. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this 
projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in connec tion with a decision of a borrower to not 
repay a TALF loan. 
 	 The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC and Ma iden Lane III LLC decline gradually over 
time. The assets of Maiden Lane II LLC are assumed to be constant at the level as of August 31, 2011; sales of assets in the LLC’s portfolio is assumed to resume after the first increase in the target federal funds rate , and holdings gradually fall to zero by June 
2015. 
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL 
	 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2013.  Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as projected in the extended Tealbook projection. 
	 Over the next six months, the level of reverse repurchase agreements is assumed to 
decline to $70 billion, about the average level observed over the past three years. 
 	 The U.S. Treasury’s General Account (T GA) follows the staff forecast through 
December 2011.
3  Then, the TGA slowly drops back to its historical target level of $5 
billion by March 2012 as it is assumed that the Treasury will implement a new cash 
management system and invest funds in ex cess of $5 billion.  The TGA remains constant 
at $5 billion over the remainder of the forecast period. 
 	 We maintain the Supplementary Financing Acc ount (SFA) balance at its current level of 
zero throughout the forecast. 
 	 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
 	 In general, increases in the level of Federa l Reserve assets are matched by higher levels 
of reserve balances.  Increases in the levels  of liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or other liabilities, or increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 b illion, purchases of Treasury securities are 
assumed in order to maintain th at level of reserve balances. 
 	 In the event that a Federal Reserve Bank’s earnings fall short of the amount necessary to 
cover operating costs, pay dividends, and equa te surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred 
asset will be recorded.  This deferred asset is  recorded in lieu of reducing the Reserve 
Explanatory Notes
Page 45 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
   
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Explanatory NotesBank’s capital and is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet as “Interest on 
Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”   This liability takes on a positive value 
when weekly cumulative earnings have not yet been distributed to the Treasury, while 
this liability takes on a negative value when earnings fall short of the expenses listed above. In the projections, System-wide earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses and this line item is set to zero. 
Page 46 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A 
Billions of dollars 
Aug 31, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,857 3,946 3,563 2,512 1,785 1,987 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 50 48 34 18 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 50 48 34 18 7 4 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 
Securities held outright 2,647 3,639 3,334 2,348 1,660 1,879 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,652 2,982 2,828 2,039 1,550 1,879 
Agency debt securities 110 77 39 16 2 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 885 579 468 293 108 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 148 254 193 145 117 104 
Total liabilities 2,806 3,876 3,470 2,389 1,622 1,772 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 996 1,080 1,212 1,361 1,504 1,654 
Reverse repurchase agreements 105 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,637 2,708 2,171 942 33 33 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,592 2,701 2,164 935 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 42 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 3 3 3 3 3 3 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 1 0 0 0 0 0 
to U.S. Treasury 
Total capital 52 70 93 123 162 215
 Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
 Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Explanatory Notes
Page 47 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative B 
Billions of dollars 
Aug 31, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,857 2,902 2,740 2,130 1,785 1,987 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 50 48 34 18 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 50 48 34 18 7 4 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 
Securities held outright 2,647 2,639 2,532 1,975 1,667 1,886 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,652 1,982 2,026 1,666 1,557 1,886 
Agency debt securities 110 77 39 16 2 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 885 579 468 293 108 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 148 210 173 137 111 97 
Total liabilities 2,806 2,832 2,648 2,007 1,622 1,772 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 996 1,080 1,212 1,361 1,504 1,654 
Reverse repurchase agreements 105 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,637 1,664 1,349 560 33 33 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,592 1,657 1,341 553 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 42 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 3 3 3 3 3 3 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 1 0 0 0 0 0 
to U.S. Treasury 
Total capital 52 70 93 123 162 215
 Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
 Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Explanatory Notes
Page 48 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
Federal Reserve Balance Sheet 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C 
Billions of dollars 
Aug 31, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,857 2,826 2,533 1,694 1,785 1,987 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 12 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 50 48 34 18 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 50 48 34 18 7 4 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 
Securities held outright 2,647 2,639 2,388 1,588 1,700 1,910 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,652 1,950 1,840 1,252 1,580 1,910 
Agency debt securities 110 77 39 16 2 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 885 612 510 319 118 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 148 135 109 88 77 73 
Total liabilities 2,806 2,756 2,440 1,572 1,622 1,772 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 996 1,080 1,212 1,361 1,504 1,654 
Reverse repurchase agreements 105 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,637 1,589 1,141 125 33 33 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,592 1,581 1,134 117 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 42 5 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 3 3 3 3 3 3 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 1 0 0 0 0 0 
to U.S. Treasury 
Total capital 52 70 93 123 162 215
 Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
 Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Explanatory Notes
Page 49 of 50
Authorized for Public Release
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 15, 2011
Explanatory Notes (This page is intentionally blank.) 
Page 50 of 50
Authorized for Public Release