Prefatory Note 
Th
e attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.   
Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
Content last modified 01/29/2016. 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  Class I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions  
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
September 16, 2010 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(This page is intentionally blank.)
Monetary Policy Strategies 
The exhibit “Equilibrium Real Federal F unds Rate” displays estimates of short-
run r* , defined as the real federal funds rate th at, if maintained over time, would return 
output to its potential in twel ve quarters.  The Tealbook-cons istent estimate of short-run 
r* generated by the FRB/US model has declined  10 basis points, to minus 2.4 percent, as 
the effect of the reduction in GDP growth in the staff projection exceeded that of the 
downward revision to potential GDP, implying somewhat lower resour ce utilization over 
the medium run.1  The EDO model’s Tealbook-consistent r* estimate is now minus 3.7 
percent, up substantially from  the August Tealbook.  However,  the rise in this estimate 
reflects the re-estimation of the EDO m odel and a methodological change in how 
expectations of future mone tary policy are treated in  the EDO-based calculation.2  By 
itself, the modest revision to the staff forecast for resource utilizat ion would have reduced 
the EDO model’s Tealbook-consistent r* by 30 basis points.  The estimate of short-run r* 
generated by the EDO model using its own projections has declined about 60 basis 
points, while the corresponding estimate from the FRB/US model ha s declined about 75 
basis points.  In the case of FRB/US, the decline reflects the model’s interpretation of 
weaker incoming data on real activity as signa ling a persistently slower pace of economic 
growth over the medium term.  The short-run r* estimates from the small structural 
model and the single-equation model have bot h increased about 30 basis points from the 
last round but remain at very low levels; the upward revisions primarily reflect the 
change to the staff’s estimate of potential GDP, which implies that the r* estimates are 
conditioned on a reduced estimate of th e current degree of resource slack. 
The exhibit “Constrained vs. Unconstraine d Monetary Policy” displays the policy 
prescriptions produced by optimal control si mulations of the FRB/US model based on the 
                                                 
1 The revisions to the staff’s esti mates of the NAIRU are discussed in the box in the nonfinancial 
outlook section of Tealbook Part A, “Structural Unemployment.” 
2 The changes in monetary policy underlying the calculation of the Tealbook -consistent EDO estimate 
of r* were previously modeled as unanticipated shocks to the short-term interest rate rule.  As these shocks 
were perceived by agents in the model to be temporary, their effect on longer-term interest rate 
expectations was muted, implying a low sensitivity of ac tivity to the changes in interest rates incorporated 
into the r* calculation.  The new procedure for generating r* assumes that private agents understand the 
policy strategy embedded in the r* calculation—that is, to close the ou tput gap at a horizon of twelve 
quarters—and so anticipate the future policy actions that will be taken to achieve this outcome.  As a result, the policy adjustments required to close the output gap are smaller. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 1 of 46
Equilibrium Real Federal Funds Rate
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010-10-8-6-4-202468 
-10-8-6-4-202468Percent     
 
Note: Explanatory Note A provides background information regarding the construction of these measures and confidence
intervals.  The actual real federal funds rate shown is based on lagged core inflation as a proxy for inflation expectations.
For information regarding alternative measures, see Explanatory Note A.  Estimates of r* may change at the beginning of a
quarter even when there is no shift in the staff outlook because the twelve quarter horizon covered by the calculation
has rolled forward one quarter.  Therefore, whenever the Tealbook is published early in the quarter, this table includes
a third column labeled "Current Quarter Estimate as of Previous Tealbook."Short-Run Estimates with Confidence Intervals
The actual real funds rate based on lagged core inflation
Range of four model-based estimates
70 Percent confidence interval
90 Percent confidence interval
Tealbook-consistent measure (FRB/US)
Short-Run and Medium-Run Measures
 
Current Tealbook Previous Tealbook
   
Short-Run Measures   
   
   Single-equation model -2.4 -2.7
   
   Small structural model -2.8 -3.1
   
   EDO model (0.6 (
1.1
   
   FRB/US model -3.3 -2.5
   
   Confidence intervals for four model-based estimates   
   
      70 percent confidence interval -4.0 to 0.4  
   
      90 percent confidence interval -5.0 to 1.8  
   
   Tealbook-consistent measures   
   
      EDO model -3.7 -5.4
   
      FRB/US model -2.4 -2.3
   
Medium-Run Measures   
   
   Single-equation model (1.1 (
1.0
   
   Small structural model (1.2 (1.3
   
   Confidence intervals for two model-based estimates   
   
      70 percent confidence interval (0.2 to 2.0  
   
      90 percent confidence interval -0.4 to 2.6  
   
   TIPS-based factor model (2.0 2.0
   
Memo   
   
   Actual real federal funds rate -1.2 -1.4
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 2 of 46
Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Policy
(2 Percent Inflation Goal)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-6-4-202468 
-6-4-202468Percent
 Nominal Federal Funds Rate
Current Tealbook: Constrained
Current Tealbook: Unconstrained
Previous Tealbook: Unconstrained
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-8-6-4-2024 
-8-6-4-2024Percent
 Real Federal Funds Rate
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 201534567891011 
34567891011Percent
 Civilian Unemployment Rate
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20150.00.51.01.52.02.53.0 
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0Percent
 Core PCE Inflation
Four-quarter average
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 3 of 46
   
extended staff baseline projection.  As discus sed in Tealbook Part A, the staff baseline 
incorporates the effects of the Federal Reserve’s large-scale asset purchases.  In these 
simulations, policymakers are assumed to pl ace equal weight on keeping core PCE 
inflation close to a 2 percent inflation goal, on keeping unemployment close to the effective NAIRU, and on minimizing changes in th e federal funds rate.  As has been true 
for some time, these simulations indicate that  optimal policy is severely constrained by 
the effective lower bound on nominal interest rates.  With the lower-bound constraint imposed, the federal funds rate does not be gin to rise appreciably until mid-2014, the 
unemployment rate remains above the staff’ s assumed NAIRU of 5¾ percent until early 
2014, and inflation stays persistently below targ et until the end of 2015 (black solid line).  
But if the nominal funds ra te could fall below zero, optim al policy would call for the 
nominal funds rate to decline to around minus 4 percent in  the fourth quarter of 2011 
(blue dashed line).  This unconstr ained funds rate path is sim ilar in shape to that in the 
August Tealbook (red dashed lin e); although the funds rate is on average somewhat 
higher during 2011 and 2012, most of this shift is  an artifact of starting the optimization 
procedure one quarter later than in the August Tealbook.  The unconstrained policy, if it 
were feasible, would bring the unemploymen t rate down to the staff estimate of the 
NAIRU more rapidly and would allow inflati on to reach the 2 percent target in early 
2015. 
As shown in the exhibit, “The Policy Ou tlook in an Uncertain Environment,” the 
staff’s estimated outcome-based policy rule pr escribes keeping the federal funds rate at 
its effective lower bound through the first quarter of 2013, one quarter later than in the 
August Tealbook.  Over the intermeeting period, the expected federal funds rate path implied by financial market data also has shifted down on net, consistent with the 
weaker-than-expected incoming data.  Th e upper bounds of the c onfidence intervals 
derived from options prices have move d down, suggesting that financial market 
participants have reduced the odds they place on outcomes with relatively high funds rates.  The table in the lower panel of th e exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from 
simple policy rules for the nominal federal funds rate.  As shown in the left-hand 
columns, all of the prescriptions remain at the effective lower bound.  The right-hand 
columns show the prescriptions that would be implied by these rules in the absence of the 
lower bound.  The rule prescriptions all conti nue to be negative, but are uniformly higher 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 4 of 46
The Policy Outlook in an Uncertain Environment
2010 2011 2012 2013 20140123456789 
0123456789Percent
 
Note: In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers' long-run inflation objective is
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule
Note: In both panels, the dark and light shading represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively.
Financial market quotes are as of September 15.Current Tealbook
Previous Tealbook
Staff assumption
2010 2011 2012 2013 20140123456789 
0123456789Percent
 Information from Financial Markets
Current Tealbook
Previous Tealbook
 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules
 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy
  
2010Q4 2011Q1
2010Q4 2011Q1
      
Taylor (1993) rule 0.13 0.13  -0.92 -1.00
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -1.23 -1.28
      
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13  -4.51 -4.59
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -5.04 -5.03
      
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13  -0.70 -1.64
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -1.62 -2.49
      
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13  -0.71 -1.60
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -1.72 -2.50
      
First-difference rule 0.13 0.13  -0.19 -0.34
      
      Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13  -0.38 -0.40
Memo
2010Q4 2011Q1
    
Staff assumption  0.13
0.13
    
Fed funds futures  0.16 0.14
    
Median expectation of primary dealers  0.13 0.13
    
Blue Chip forecast (September 1, 2010)  0.20 0.20
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 5 of 46
   
than in the August Tealbook, reflecting the effe ct of the upward adjustment, in the staff 
forecast, in near-term inflation and the st aff’s reduced estimate of near-term slack.3 
 
 
                                                 
3 The unconstrained prescriptions from the estima ted outcome-based rule an d the estimated forecast-
based rule have risen by a greater amount than the other rule prescriptions.  A mechanical source of 
increase in the prescriptions from these rules arises from the presence of the lagged policy rate as a right-
hand-side variable in the rules.  In the August Tealbook, the lagged policy rate entering the 2010 Q4 rule prescription was the (negative) value for 2010 Q3 obta ined by projecting from the rule.  As the quarter 
nears its end, the observation for the 2010 Q3 funds rate is replaced by the value used in the staff projection (0.125 percent), and this change boosts the rule pres cription.  In addition to this mechanical source of 
increase, the increase in the prescriptions also partly reflects the high  weight assigned to inflation in these 
rules. 
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 6 of 46
 
 Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents four policy alte rnatives—labeled A1, A2, B, and C—for 
the Committee’s consideration that span a range of policy choices.  In  light of the staff 
outlook for a prolonged period of signifi cant resource slack and undesirably low 
inflation, Alternatives A1, A2, and B are more  explicit than past statements about the 
Committee’s assessment of inflation relative to its dual mandate.  All of the alternatives 
maintain the existing target range for the fede ral funds rate.  Howeve r, the alternatives 
vary in their policies regarding the Federal Reserve’s securities portfolio and in their 
descriptions of the Committee’s inclination and approach to taki ng policy action going 
forward.  As always, the Committee could mix components of the various alternatives to 
construct its desired statement. 
The statement issued under Alternative B would note that information received 
since the last FOMC meeting “confirms” that the pace of recovery has slowed in recent 
months.  It would also note that measures  of underlying inflation have trended down to 
levels “somewhat below” those the Committee judges most consistent, over the longer 
run, with its dual mandate.  In addition, alt hough inflation is characterized as likely to 
remain subdued for some time, the language woul d indicate that infla tion subsequently is 
expected to rise to mandate-consistent levels.  Alternative B would not introduce 
additional policy accommodation at this ti me, and it would maintain the Committee’s 
existing reinvestment policy.  Bu t the statement for this altern ative would make clear that 
the Committee “is prepared to provide additional accommodation” to foster the 
Committee’s objectives.  
Under both of the A alternat ives, the Committee would be  more direct about its 
characterization of inflation and would coupl e that language with additional large-scale 
asset purchases.  The statement for Alternat ive A2 would say that measures of underlying 
inflation have trended lower in recent quarters, to levels “below” those the Committee 
judges most consistent with its dual mandate.  It would also note that in the current 
environment, disinflation is an impediment to economic recovery.  In the statement for 
Alternative A1, the Committee would be even more explicit, indicat ing that it judges 
inflation of “2 percent or a bit less, as measured by the price index for personal 
consumption expenditures,” to be most consistent, over the longer run, with its mandate and noting that underlying inflati on is now running below that le vel.  Under either of the 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 7 of 46
   
A alternatives, the Committee would announce that it will increase its total holdings of 
securities to approximately  $2.5 trillion by purchasing an  additional $500 billion of 
longer-term Treasury securities over the next six months while main taining its existing 
reinvestment policy, in order “to help foster  a stronger pace of economic recovery and to 
move underlying inflation closer, over time, to  rates consistent with its mandate.”  The 
Committee could then indicate that it will “act as needed” going forward to support a 
stronger economic recovery and foster pri ce stability.  Or, in Alternative A2, the 
Committee could choose language that indicates a more flexible and incremental 
approach to managing the size of its securiti es portfolio under which it would “determine, 
each time it meets, whether an adjustment—either upward or downward—to its holdings 
of securities is needed to foster ma ximum employment and price stability.”  
The statement under Alternative C would say that the economic recovery “is 
proceeding,” and that the Committee continues to anticipate a gradual return to higher 
levels of resource utilization in  a context of price stability.  In addition, this alternative 
would change the forward guidance regardi ng the federal funds rate to state that 
economic conditions are likely to warrant “low ” (rather than “exceptionally low”) levels 
of the federal funds rate for “some time” (rath er than for an “extended period”).  The 
statement would also indicate that the Co mmittee expects to maintain its existing 
securities reinvestment polic y “for the time being.”   
A table summarizing the key components of  each alternative appears on the next 
page, followed by complete draft statements and the arguments for each alternative.   
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 8 of 46
   
 Table 1:  Overview of Alternatives for the September 21 FOMC Statement 
 
Key 
Components August 
Statement September Alternatives 
A1 A2 B C 
Economic Activity  
Recent 
Developments pace of recovery has slowed in recent months pace of recovery has slowed in recent months economic recovery is proceeding 
Labor  
Market pace of recovery in employment has slowed; 
high unemployment; 
employers remain 
reluctant to add to 
payrolls pace of recovery in employment has slowed; 
high unemployment; 
employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls economic recovery is proceeding 
Outlook gradual return to higher 
resource utilization w/ 
price stability; pace of 
recovery likely more 
modest in near term than 
had been anticipated gradual return to higher resource 
utilization, 
although… gradual return to higher resource 
utilization w/ price stability, although… although pace of recovery likely 
modest in near 
term, gradual 
return to higher 
resource utilization 
w/ price stability 
pace of recovery likely modest in near term 
Financial Conditions 
Recent 
Developments bank lending has continued to contract  bank lending has continued to contract bank lending has conti nued to contract,  
but at a reduced rate in recent months 
Inflation 
Recent Developments trended lower; and… trended lower; underlying 
inflation running below 2 percent 
PCE inflation trended below 
mandate-consistent levels trended somewhat 
below mandate-
consistent levels; 
and… stayed subdued; 
and… 
substantial slack; stable inflation expectations n.a. substantial slack; stable inflation expectations stable inflation expectations 
Outlook subdued for some time n.a. subdued for some 
time before rising 
toward mandate-
consistent levels gradual return to 
higher resource 
utilization in a 
context of price 
stability 
Target Federal Funds Rate 
Intermeeting 
Period 0 to ¼ percent 0 to ¼ percent 
Forward 
Guidance  exceptionally low levels for an extended period exceptionally low levels 
for an extended period low levels for some time 
SOMA Portfolio Policy 
Approach keep constant:   reinvest 
principal payments in 
Treasuries increase:   purchase $500 billion of 
Treasuries over next six months; 
maintain existing reinvestment policy keep constant:   
maintain existing reinvestment policy keep constant:    
for the time being, maintain existing 
reinvestment policy 
Future Policy Action 
Approach employ tools as necessary act as needed act as needed  | 
each time it meets, 
determine needed 
adjustment, up or 
down prepared to provide additional 
accommodation as 
needed employ tools as 
necessary 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 9 of 46
   
 AUGUST FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicates 
that the pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in recent months. 
Household spending is increasing gra dually, but remains constrained by high 
unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit. Business spending on equipment and software  is rising; however, investment in 
nonresidential structures con tinues to be weak and employers remain reluctant to add 
to payrolls. Housing starts remain at a de pressed level. Bank lending has continued to 
contract. Nonetheless, the Committee anticipa tes a gradual return to higher levels of 
resource utilization in a context of pr ice stability, although the pace of economic 
recovery is likely to be more modest in the near term than had been anticipated.  
2. Measures of underlying inflation have tr ended lower in recen t quarters and, with 
substantial resource slack continuing to restrain cost pressures and longer-term 
inflation expectations stable, inflation is likely to be subdued for some time.  
3. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are 
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of  the federal funds rate for an extended 
period.  
4. To help support the economic recovery in a context of price st ability, the Committee 
will keep constant the Federal Reserve's holdi ngs of securities at their current level by 
reinvesting principal payments from ag ency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities in longer-te rm Treasury securities.1 The Committee will continue to roll 
over the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities as they mature.  
5. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic 
recovery and pr ice stability.  
 
  
                                                 
1 The Open Market Desk will issue a technical note shortly after the statement providing operational 
details on how it will carry out these transactions. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 10 of 46
   
 SEPTEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A1 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in JuneAugust  
indicates confirms  that the pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in 
recent months. Household spending is increasing only gradually,  but remains  
constrained by high unemployment, modest  income growth, lower housing wealth, 
and tight credit. Business spending on  equipment and software is rising;  however, has 
slowed and  investment in nonresidential structures continues to be weak . and 
Employers remain reluctant to add to payrol ls. Housing starts remain at a depressed 
level. Bank lending has continue d to contract.  Nonetheless, The Committee 
anticipates a gradual return to high er levels of re source utilization  in a context of 
price stability , although the pace of economic recovery is likely to be  more modest in 
the near term than had been anticipated . 
2. Measures of underlying inflation have  trended lower in recent quarters . Underlying 
inflation is now running below
 the level of  2 percent or a bit less, as measured by 
the price index for personal consum ption expenditures, that the Committee 
judges most consistent, over the longer run, with its mandate to promote 
maximum employment and price stab ility. In the current environment, 
disinflation is an impedime nt to economic recovery.  and, with substantial resource 
slack continuing to restrain  cost pressures and longer -term inflation expectations 
stable, inflation is likely to be subdued for some time .  
3. To help foster a stronger pace of economic recovery and to move underlying  
inflation closer, over time, to rates co nsistent with its mandate, the Committee  
will increase its total holdings of securities to approximately $2.5 trillion by purchasing an additional $500 billion of lo nger-term Treasury securities over the 
next six months. The Committee will mainta in its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments from its securities holdings.  
The Committee also will maintain 
the target range for the federa l funds rate at 0 to ¼ percen t and continues to anticipate 
that economic conditions, including low ra tes of resource utilization, subdued 
inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are li kely to warrant exceptionally 
low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period. To help support the 
economic recovery in a  context of price stability, the Committee will keep constant 
the Federal Reserve's holdings of securiti es at their current level by reinvesting 
principal payments from agency debt and agency mortgage- backed securities in 
longer -term Treasury securities. T he Committee will continue to roll over the Federal 
Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities as they mature.   
4. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will  employ its polic y tools as necessary to promote e conomic 
recovery and price stability act as needed to support a stronger economic recovery 
and foster price stability .   
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 11 of 46
   
 SEPTEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A2    
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in JuneAugust  
indicates confirms  that the pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in 
recent months. Household spending is increas
ing only  gradually, but remains  
constrained by high unemployment, modest  income growth, lower housing wealth, 
and tight credit. Business spending on e quipment and software is rising; however, has 
slowed and  investment in nonresidential structures continues to be weak . and 
Employers remain reluctant to add to payrol ls. Housing starts remain at a depressed 
level. Bank lending has continue d to contract.  Nonetheless, The Committee 
anticipates a gradual return to  higher levels of resource utilization in a context of 
price stability, although the pace of econom ic recovery is likely to be  more modest in 
the near term  than had been anticipated . 
2. Measures of underlying inflation have  trended lower in recent quarters , to levels 
below those the Committee judges most cons istent, over the longer run, with its 
mandate to promote maximum employmen t and price stability. In the current 
environment, disinflation is an impediment to economic recovery. and, with 
substantial resource slack continuing to  restrain cost pressures and longer -term 
inflation expectations stable, inflatio n is likely to be subdued for some time .  
3. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are 
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds rate for an extended 
period.   
4. To help foster a stronger pace of economic recovery and to move underlying  
inflation closer, over time, to rates co nsistent with its mandate, the Committee  
will increase its total holdings of securities to approximately $2.5 trillion by purchasing an additional $500 billion of lo nger-term Treasury securities over the 
next six months. The Committee will mainta in its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments from its securities holdings.
 To help support th e economic 
recovery in a context of price stability, the Committee will keep constant the Federal Reserve's holdings of securities at thei r current level by reinvesting principal 
payments from agency debt and agency mortgage- backed securities in longer -term 
Treasury securities. The Committee will continue to roll over the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities as they mature.    
5. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic 
recovery and price stability act as needed to support a stronger economic recovery 
and foster price stability .  
— OR — 
5. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments  and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic 
recovery and price stability . The Committee will determine, each time it meets, 
whether an adjustment—either upward or downward—to its holdings of 
securities is needed to foster maxi mum employment and price stability.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 12 of 46
   
 SEPTEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B   
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in JuneAugust  
indicates confirms  that the pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in 
recent months. Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains constrained 
by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit. Business spending on equi pment and software is rising
, though less rapidly 
than earlier in the year ; however , while  investment in nonresidential structures 
continues to be weak . and Employers remain reluctant to  add to payrolls. Housing 
starts remain are at a depressed level. Bank le nding has continued to contract , but at a 
reduced rate in recent months . Nonetheless, The Committee anticipates a gradual 
return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability, although the pace of economic recovery is likely to be 
more modest in the near term  than had 
been anticipated . 
2. Measures of underlying inflation have  trended lower in recent quarters , to levels 
somewhat below those the Committee judges most consistent, over the longer 
run, with its mandate to promote maximum employment and price stability. and 
With substantial resource slack continuing to restrain cost pr essures and longer-term 
inflation expectations stable, inflation is likely to beremain subdued for some time 
before rising to levels the Committee considers consistent with its mandate .  
3. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to an ticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are 
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels fo r the federal funds rate for an extended 
period.  The Committee also will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments from its securities holdings.     
4. To help support the economic recovery in a context of price st ability, the Committee 
will keep constant the Federal Reser ve's holdings of securities at their current level by 
reinvesting principal payments from  agency debt and agency mortgage -backed 
securities in longer -term Treasury securities. The Committee will continue to roll 
over the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities as they mature.  
4. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ  its policy tools as necessa ry to promote economic 
recovery and price stability.  is prepared to provide additional accommodation as 
needed to foster a stronger economic recovery and to help return inflation, over time, to levels consistent with its mandate.  
   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 13 of 46
   
 SEPTEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C   
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in JuneAugust 
indicates that the  pace of  economic  recovery in output and em ployment has slowed in 
recent months is proceeding . Household  income and  spending  isare increasing  
gradually . , but remains constrained by high unemp loyment, modest income growth, 
lower housin g wealth, and tight credit.  Manufacturing activity and business 
spending on equipment and software have risen. is rising; however, investment in 
nonresidential structures con tinues to be weak and employers remain reluctant to add 
to payrolls. Housing starts  remain at a depressed level. Bank lending has continued to 
contract , but at a reduced rate in recent months . Measures of underlying inflation 
have trended lower stayed subdued in recent quarters, a nd longer-term inflation 
expectations  have remained  stable.  Nonetheless, the Co mmittee anticipates a gradual 
return to higher levels of resource u tilization in a context of price stability,  Although 
the pace of economic recovery is likely to be more modest in the near term , than had 
been anticipated. the Committee continues to anticipate a gradual return to higher 
levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability.   
2. Measures of underlying inflation have tr ended lower in recen t quarters and, with 
substantial resource slack contin uing to restrain cost pres sures and longer -term 
inflation expectations stable, inflation is likely to be subdued for some time.  
2. The Committee will maintain the target ra nge for the federal f unds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to  anticipate s that economic conditions, including low rates of 
resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are 
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for  an extended 
period some time . To help support the economic recovery in a context o f price 
stability,  For the time being, the Committee  also will maintain its existing policy of  
reinvesting principal payments to  keep constant the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
securities at their current level . by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt 
and agency mortgage- backed securities in longer -term Treasury securities. The 
Committee will continue to roll over the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities as they mature .  
3. The Committee will continue to mon itor the economic outlook and financial 
developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic 
recovery and pr ice stability.  
 
  
 
 
  
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 14 of 46
   
 THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
The Committee may not see economic conditions as havi ng deteriorated 
sufficiently over recent months to warrant  additional policy accommodation at this 
meeting, but it may feel that current conditions ―little if any progress in reducing 
elevated levels of resource slack and underl ying inflation that is  running below levels 
consistent with the dual mandate ―if they were to persist much longer, would call for 
policy action.  If so, the Committee might c hoose an announcement along the lines of that 
provided in Alternative B.  
Committee members may interpret the recent data on economic activity and 
employment as having confirmed that the pace of economic recovery has slowed in 
recent months.  Nevertheless, members may still view the recent weakness in economic 
activity as most likely to be a temporary “s oft patch,” and continue to anticipate that 
growth will strengthen going forward without  additional policy action.  The improvement 
in the tone of the incoming economic data released late in the in termeeting period might 
be seen as supporting this view.  Indeed, th e Committee’s assessment of the prospects for 
economic growth and inflation beyond the near  term may not have materially changed 
over the intermeeting period, and thus member s may not see the threshold for further 
policy action at this meeting as having been met.  Under Alternative B, the Committee would state that it “anticipates a gradual return to higher levels of res ource utilization in a 
context of price stability, a lthough the pace of economic recovery is likely to be modest 
in the near term.”  Even if  the Committee is more concerned about the downside risks to 
the outlook than it was in A ugust, it could view the uncer tainty about the economy as 
being unusually high and therefore want to wait for additional information about the 
trajectory of output and infla tion before undertaking a new policy action.  If so, the 
Committee would likely want to maintain the current target range for the federal funds 
rate as well as its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities holdings, as under Alternative B.
2 
 Market participants appear to have appropriately interpreted the “extended 
period” language in past statements as conditioning the Committee’s anticipation for the 
                                                 
2 At the August 2010 FOMC meeting, the Committee directed the Desk to reinvest principal payments 
from Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency MBS in to Treasury issues.  All else equal, in the absence 
of this policy, the size of the SOMA  portfolio would have gradually dec lined; with this po licy in place, the 
size of the SOMA portfolio is kept approximately c onstant over time while the share of Treasury securities 
held in the portfolio gradually increases. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 15 of 46
   
 federal funds rate on the economic outlook.  In deed, market measures of the expected 
federal funds rate dropped and then moved back up over the intermeeting period in line 
with the way market participants reported ly interpreted the incoming economic data.  
Therefore, the Committee may wish  to retain the current langua ge at this meeting, as in 
the policy paragraph in  Alternative B.   
Nonetheless, the Committee may be concerned that the deceleration in economic 
activity could prove more protracted than cu rrently expected.  Indeed, members may have 
found the slow pace of the economic recovery since spring disappointing, and believe that the persistent slow growth with high leve ls of resource slack would be unacceptable.  
Moreover, underlying inflation has trended lowe r in recent quarters, to levels somewhat 
below those seen by the Committee as consistent with its dual mandate (as indicated by participants’ longer-run inflation projections reported in recent Summaries of Economic 
Projections).  While the staff has narrowed slightly its asse ssment of resource slack and 
edged up its forecast of inflation over the next  couple of quarters, it anticipates that 
inflation will tick down again next year, a nd does not see inflation beginning to creep up 
until 2013.  In this environment, the Committ ee may see some increase in the risk of 
further disinflation, with potentially advers e consequences for the real economy.  Given 
these concerns, the Committee might think it appropriate to signal that if economic conditions do not begin to improve soon, it st ands ready to provide additional monetary 
accommodation.  
Consistent with this assessment, Alternat ive B continues to i ndicate that the pace 
of economic recovery is likely to be modest in the near term , but notes that measures of 
underlying inflation have trended lower in re cent quarters, “to levels somewhat below 
those the Committee judges most consistent , over the longer run, with its mandate to 
promote maximum employment a nd price stability.”  Alternat ive B ends by stating that 
the Committee “is prepared to provide additional accommodation as needed to foster a stronger economic recovery and to help return  inflation, over time, to levels consistent 
with its mandate.”  Market participants have indicated a str ong desire for greater clarity 
about the Committee’s threshold for undertak ing additional policy action, and a statement 
along the lines of Alte rnative B would help in this regard.   
 According to the Desk’s latest survey, primary dealers do not see major changes 
in the statement language as the most likely outcome at this meeting.  In addition, the 
results suggest that dealers generally do not anticipate that additional asset purchases will 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 16 of 46
   
 be announced at this time, although they repor tedly put material odds on such an outcome 
by the end of the year.  Even though the statement language points to “additional 
accommodation” without specifically mentioning LSAPs, the announcement of 
Alternative B nonetheless would likely lead investors to price in higher odds that 
additional LSAPs will be implemented by the Committee, perhaps as soon as at the 
November meeting.  As a consequence, l onger-term interest rates would likely fall 
somewhat, stock prices would rise, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar would 
decline.  However, the statement could possi bly leave investors more uncertain about the 
Committee’s economic outlook, or cause th em to conclude the Committee had a 
significantly more downbeat assess ment of economic activity than  in August.  If so, risk 
premiums could widen to some extent and th e rise in stock pri ces could be muted. 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A2 
Policymakers may conclude that, with the weakness to date in the economic 
recovery and the downtrend in underlying infl ation, the Committee is increasingly falling 
short of both of its statutory objectives.  If so, they may see the need for additional policy accommodation at this meeting, as in Alterna tive A2.  Committee members may view the 
incoming data as confirming that the economic  recovery has slowed significantly since 
spring, with inflation well below levels most consistent with the Committee’s dual 
mandate.  Indeed, in the staff forecast, the ou tput gap does not begin to diminish until the 
middle of next year, two quarters la ter than in the previous forecast.
3  And this revision 
follows others of a similar nature—at th e time of the April FO MC meeting, staff 
estimated that resource slack had alrea dy stepped down in late 2009.  With both 
economic growth and inflation running below desired levels, members may be concerned 
that a prolonged period of very low infl ation could weigh heavily on the economic 
recovery and, as a result, they may be quite  reluctant to tolerate the status quo.  And 
members may also worry about the extent to which the downward trend in underlying 
inflation is itself impeding the economic recovery.   
Additional accommodation would seem par ticularly appropriate if the Committee 
was also concerned about other factors that could undermine the recovery.  For example, members might believe that ongoing wea kness in house prices was impairing 
                                                 
3 In its latest forecast, the staff revised down its a ssessment of the recent and pr ojected path of potential 
output, and therefore the amount of resource slack in the economy.  However, going forward on the new 
trajectory, the point at which the amount of resource slack in the economy begins to diminish has been 
pushed out.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 17 of 46
   
 households’ balance sheets and so weighing on their spending.  In addition, the federal 
fiscal stimulus is projected to soon become  a source of drag on economic growth, and 
members may be worried that private demand could prove insufficient to sustain a robust 
recovery.  Accordingly, the Committee may ge nerally view the downside risks to the 
outlook for economic growth and inflation as quite pronounced, as in the “Weaker 
Economic Recovery” and “Greater  Disinflation” scenarios pr esented in the Tealbook.   
Although the current target range for the federal funds rate would remain 
unchanged, Alternative A2 would nonetheless deliver an explicit message that the 
Committee is dissatisfied with both the pace of economic recovery and with the trajectory of inflation by making three major changes re lative to the Committee’s August statement.  
First, the Committee would make clear its discomfort with the recent behavior of 
inflation by noting that measur es of underlying inflation ha ve trended lower in recent 
quarters, “to levels below t hose the Committee judges most c onsistent, over the longer 
run, with its mandate to promote maximum employment and price stability.”  Second, the Committee would go on to state that, “in the current environment, disinflation is an 
impediment to economic recovery,” making clear that such low inflation is unwelcome.  
Moreover, the indication employed in the stat ement for Alternative B that inflation was 
expected to rise eventually to levels the Committee considers consistent with its mandate 
would not be used in this case.  Third, the Committee would announce that it will 
increase its total holdings of securities to approximately $2.5 tr illion by purchasing an 
additional $500 billion of longe r-term Treasury securities over  the next six months while 
maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments.
  
Relative to several months ago, Committee members may judge the costs of 
expanding its securities portfolio  as having diminished to some degree.  In particular, 
members may be more comfortable expanding LS APs in light of the substantial progress 
that has been made in developing the mech anisms for managing th e aggregate level of 
reserve balances.  The Term Deposit Facility, in which interest-bearing term deposits are 
auctioned to depository institutions, has been successfully tested, and a program of 
regular small-value auctions has been announce d.  In addition, the Desk is prepared to 
transact large-dollar reverse repurchase agre ements with its recently expanded list of 
counterparties.  Members may therefore be at least somewhat less concerned that the 
large size of the Federal Reserve’s portfolio  will end up posing subs tantial constraints on 
the ability of the Committee to tighten  financial conditions when needed.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 18 of 46
   
 If, in addition to taking this policy ste p, the Committee wanted to adopt a strategy 
of using the size of its securi ties portfolio more actively as a tool to adjust financial 
conditions going forward, it could decide to announce that it will “determine, each time it 
meets, whether an adjustment to its holdings of securities is needed to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.”  Spelling out  the Committee’s intention to take a more 
incremental approach from meeting to m eeting could help inve stors understand the 
Committee’s reaction function and so take into account possible future policy decisions.  
Such an outcome could prove stabilizing, helping the Committee to achieve its desired outcomes.  On the other hand, more frequent , incremental purchases would likely reduce 
the size of the announcement effects associated with the purchases, possibly limiting their 
effectiveness.  Moreover, unless more information was provided to complement the statement, perhaps through subsequent sp eeches and testimony, the Committee’s reaction 
function likely would remain unclear at l east for a time.  Indeed, without further 
explanation, the words “upward or down ward” in the statement could increase 
uncertainty if they were viewed as signali ng a readiness to withdraw accommodation in 
the near term.  (For more discussion of the va rious issues that such a strategy could raise, 
see the box entitled, “Issues Related to Using a More Flexible Appro ach to Adjusting the 
SOMA Securities Portfolio.”)     
Based on the results of the latest survey of primary dealers, market participants 
would be surprised by the Committee’s resumpti on of LSAPs at this meeting.  While the 
effects of additional purchases of longer-term Treasury securities are difficult to predict, staff estimates suggest that a dditional purchases of longer-ter m Treasury securities in the 
amount of $500 billion would initially reduc e long-term yields by around 15 to 20 basis 
points, although a part of this effect appears to already be priced into markets.
4  Such a 
                                                 
4 This estimate was calibrated assuming that the effects of additional asset purchases on long-term 
interest rates would be in the middle of the wide range  of estimates provided in the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York Staff Report of March 2010, “Large-Scale Asset Purchases by the Federal Reserve:  Did They 
Work?” by Joseph Gagnon, Matthew Raskin, Julie Rema che, and Brian Sack.  In contrast, analyses of 
different SOMA portfolio strategies that the staff produced for the June and August 2010 FOMC meetings were based on estimates of LSAP effects that were at the upper end of the range reported by Gagnon et al.  These higher estimates were similar to those originally used by staff to calibrate the effects of asset 
purchases, such as in the two memos sent to the FOMC in March 2009:  “Economic Effects of Large-Scale 
Purchases of Long-Term Treasury Securities and Agen cy Debt and MBS,” by Eileen Mauskopf and David 
Reifschneider; and “Expanding Large-Scale Asset Purchases:  Effec tiveness, Benefits, Risks, and, 
Strategies,” by Joseph Gagnon, David Lucca, Jonathan  McCarthy, Julie Remache,  and Jennifer Roush.  
Because the latest study by Gagnon et al exploits  additional data and analytical methods, it seems 
appropriate to adjust the calibration to reflect the more comprehensive results.   
That said, the effects of asset purchases are subject to considerable uncertainty and depend on a 
number of factors, including whether market participants expect the Committee to repeat its action, how 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 19 of 46
 
 Issues Related to Using a More Flexible Approach to Adjusting the SOMA 
Securities Portfolio 
 Du ring the past two years, the FOMC undertook 
large-scale purchases of longer-term assets to 
provide policy stimulus by reducing term 
premiums and thus longer-term interest rates.  
Although the Committee stated that it would 
purchase “up to” specified amounts of securities 
over a given time frame, market participants 
generally did not expect the FOMC to buy significantly less than the maximum absent a substantial improvement in the economic outlook.  
The Committee’s August 2010 decision to reinvest 
principal payments from agency debt and agency 
MBS appears more open-ended; the Committee 
explained that its decision was a response to the 
somewhat softer economic outlook but did not 
specify how long it would maintain the new 
policy.  In addition, market participants now 
believe that further deterioration in the outlook 
could trigger additional expansion in the balance 
sheet.  Under one variant of Alternative A2, the 
Committee would explicitly adopt an approach of 
more frequently adjusting the size of the SOMA 
portfolio as economic conditions or the outlook 
change.   
The FOMC might choose such an approach to managing the SOMA portfolio because it sees this 
approach as similar to its method for adjusting the 
target federal funds rate before the financial crisis.  
If the Committee chooses to consider more frequent adjustments in the SOMA portfolio, it could use a framework akin to the Taylor rule to 
help guide its decisions.  For example, a Taylor 
(1993) rule would call for a 25 basis point reduction 
in the federal funds rate in response to a ½ 
percentage point increase in the output gap or 0.2 
percentage point decrease in inflation.  The staff 
estimates that expanding the SOMA portfolio of 
longer-term assets by $150 to $200 billion would 
provide roughly the same stimulus as a 25 basis 
point reduction in the federal funds rate.
1   
Of course, the Committee need not follow a Taylor rule.  Many estimated r eaction functions recognize 
that the FOMC typically moved the federal funds rate gradually toward the level prescribed by Taylor-
like rules by making a series of small adjustments.  
The Committee could choose a similarly gradual 
approach to adjusting the size of the SOMA 
portfolio.  Moreover, if the Committee judges that 
the costs associated with  altering the portfolio 
exceed those associated with changing the target federal funds rate, it could decide that somewhat 
larger shifts in economic conditions would be 
required to trigger changes in the SOMA’s securities 
holdings than in the funds rate.
2   
An incremental approach to adjusting the SOMA 
portfolio might be fairly easy to explain to markets 
and the public if it were similar to the Committee’s 
 1 This rough equivalence is consistent with the middle of the wide range of estimates of the effects of the Committee’s 
large-scale asset purchases on longer-term Treasury yields in 2008 and 2009, and with estimates of the historical 
relationship between changes in the federal funds rate and longe r-term interest rates.  Given this equivalence, the FRB/US 
model would suggest that a $150 to $200 billion increase in th e SOMA’s holdings of longer-term assets would raise real 
GDP by 0.1 percentage point after 4 quarters and by 0.2 percentage point after 8 quarters.   
2 If the costs associated with expanding or contracting the SOMA portfolio are primarily fixed costs, an incremental 
approach might be seen as inferior to a policy of changing the size of the portfolio only by a sizable increment, and only 
in response to a substantial change in economic conditions or the outlook. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 20 of 46
 
 
historical reaction function for the target federal 
funds rate.  Under the relevant variant of Alternative A2, the Committee would announce 
that  it will reconsider the size of the SOMA 
portfolio at each future FOMC meeting, implying 
 that changes in the outlook for economic activity 
and inflation may lead to adjustments in the 
portfolio.   
Though a strategy of making incremental changes in the SOMA portfolio would be similar in some 
respects to the Committee’s pre-crisis approach to 
adjusting its target for th e federal funds rate, it 
could pose significant challenges nonetheless.  The degree of stimulus associated with a given change 
in the size or composition of the portfolio is quite 
uncertain, as are the potential effects of such 
changes on the public’s perceptions of the 
Committee’s ability to exit smoothly from the 
period of exceptionally accommodative policy.  
Accordingly, the Committee—and the markets—
would have to be prepared for a period of “learning 
by doing.”  In addition, the Committee would need 
to make decisions not only about the size of the 
SOMA portfolio but also about its composition (the 
mix of Treasury securities and agency MBS, for example) and the time period over which the Desk 
would undertake the purchases or sales that would 
be required to implement a desired change in the 
portfolio.  Such decisions presumably would be 
guided by an assessment of conditions in these 
markets, the anticipated economic effects of 
purchases of different instruments, and the Desk’s 
ability to change the SOMA’s holdings in an 
orderly fashion.  The Committee also would need to 
reconsider the link between balance sheet policy   
and federal funds rate policy.  One possibility is a “Last In, First Out” (LIFO)  approach under which, 
as the recovery proceeds, the Committee sells assets before it begins to increase the federal funds 
rate; the FOMC could vary the pace of asset sales 
in response to economic developments.  A second 
possibility is that the Committee could stick with 
its stated intention of raising the federal funds rate 
first and selling securities later, potentially on a 
fixed schedule; under this approach, the 
Committee presumably would change the federal 
funds rate rather than the size and composition of 
the SOMA portfolio to adjust the stance of 
monetary policy.  A third possibility is for the 
Committee to adjust the federal funds rate and the 
size of its securities portfolio simultaneously.  The 
LIFO approach likely implies a longer period of 
near-zero interest rates than the others.  The 
second approach—raising the federal funds rate 
before beginning to adjust the balance sheet—
likely would rely more heavily on new reserve 
draining tools, and result in a more gradual 
reduction in the size of the balance sheet, once it 
becomes appropriate to begin removing policy accommodation.  Both approaches are consistent 
with an eventual return to a regime in which the 
Committee adjusts the stance of monetary policy 
by moving the federal funds rate.  Under the third 
approach, adjustments to the size of the portfolio 
would remain an important instrument of monetary 
policy even after the federal funds rate rises above 
its effective lower bound.
3  
3 If the costs associated with expanding or contracting the SOMA portfolio are primarily fixed costs, an incremental 
approach might be seen as inferior to a policy of changing the size of the portfolio only by a sizable increment, and only 
in response to a substantial change in economic conditions or the outlook. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 21 of 46
   
 response would likely be accompanied by a rise in stock prices and a decline in the 
foreign-exchange value of the dollar.  Howe ver, if the unexpected decision to provide 
additional policy accommodation caused investors to conclude the Committee was more 
concerned than had been thought about the economic outlook, the e ffect on stock prices 
could be quite small.  
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE A1 
 If the Committee were particularly concerned about the possibility that underlying inflation and inflation expecta tions might remain too low or even trend lower still over 
time, it might be inclined to couple the policy actions taken under Alte rnative A2 with the 
additional step of being even more explicit in  describing the level of inflation that the 
Committee sees as consistent with its ma ndate to promote maximum employment and 
price stability.  Alternatives A1 and A2 bot h note that measures of underlying inflation 
have trended lower in recent quarters.  But Alternative A1 would go on to point 
specifically to the Committee’s primary benchmark for monitoring inflation—the price 
index for personal consumption expenditures— and state that underlyi ng inflation is now 
running below the level of “2 percent or a bit less” that the Committee judges most 
consistent, over the longer run, with its manda te, where that judgment is read from the 
most recent Summary of Economic Projections.
5  By including such words in the 
statement, the Committee would indicate that it will give grea ter emphasis to the level of 
inflation relative to its benchmark when se tting monetary policy to achieve its dual 
mandate going forward.     
This increased clarity regarding the Co mmittee’s intentions for inflation could 
serve to better anchor inflation expectations, and therefore actual inflati on.  If so, then in 
the current environment, this change coul d help arrest the downtrend in underlying 
inflation.  On the other hand, without addi tional communication from policymakers, the 
announcement might increase uncertainty a bout how the Committee will decide on its 
                                                                                                                                                 
quickly the purchases are expected to be made, and how long investors expect the Federal Reserve to hold 
the securities it acquires.  The effects also may depend  importantly on the pace at  which the Desk buys or 
sells.  In addition, the effects clearly depend on how market expectations for the path of the federal funds 
rate would respond to an asset purchase or sale.   
5 In the Summary of Economic Projections published in June, the central tendency of the Committee’s 
longer-run projections of PCE inflation was 1.7 percent to 2.0 percent.   
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 22 of 46
   
 policy stance.6  In particular, market participants could come to question the Committee’s 
commitment to the “maximum employment” component of its dual mandate.  (For a 
discussion of the operational issues rais ed by introducing more explicit language 
regarding the Committee’s longer-run in flation objectives, see the box entitled, 
“Communication of the FOMC ’s Objectives and the Li nk to Its Policy Strategy.”) 
THE CASE FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Unlike the staff, Committee members ma y view the incoming data on economic 
activity and employment as having generally co ntinued to evolve as they had expected 
over the intermeeting period.  They may see the recent period of uneven economic 
performance as likely to be onl y a temporary “soft patch,” with growth likely to pickup in 
a sustained way going forward, especially in light of the recent improvement in the incoming data.  Members may also be concer ned that as the economy recovers, the highly 
accommodative stance of monetary policy and very large Federal Reserve balance sheet 
currently in place could make it difficult to tig hten policy as quickly as may be required, 
potentially allowing inflation pressures to build.  In this case, the Committee might 
choose the statement and policy options outlined in  Alternative C.  Under this alternative, 
the Committee would characterize the economic r ecovery as “proceeding” and note that it 
“continues to anticipate a gradual return to hi gher levels of resource utilization in a 
context of price stability.”  
In addition, Alternative C would change the statement language to begin 
positioning the Committee for removal of po licy accommodation.  Although the target 
range for the federal funds rate would be ma intained in this alternative, the forward 
guidance would indicate that economic conditions  warranted “low levels” of the federal 
funds rate for “some time,” instead of the “exceptionally low levels” for an “extended period” indicated in the Co mmittee’s August statement and retained in the other 
alternatives.  Moreover, the Committee would maintain its existing policy of reinvesting 
principal payments from securities held in  the SOMA only “for the time being,” which 
would likely be read as sugges ting that this policy could possibly be reve rsed quite soon.   
Aside from their assessment of the incoming data, it could also be the case that 
some policymakers worry that an extended peri od of near-zero short- term interest rates 
                                                 
6 To ensure that the Committee’s change in strategy was well understood, additional communication 
about the strategy—outside of the statement and FOMC meeting minutes—would likely be useful for the 
Congress, the Administration, and the public. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 23 of 46
 
Communication of the FOMC’s Objectives and the Link to Its Policy Strategy 
 The ex pectations of financial market 
participants, firms, and households regarding 
monetary policy, inflation, and real activity 
depend in part on their perceptions of the 
Federal Reserve’s inflation goal.  The 
Committee could provide greater clarity about 
its desired inflation outcomes and hence about 
its policy strategy by sp ecifying clearly the rate 
of inflation that it judges to be consistent, over the longer run, with its mandate to promote 
maximum employment and price stability.  In 
providing this information, policymakers might 
wish to proceed by building on the framework 
embedded in the Summary of Economic 
Projections (SEP), whic h currently reports on 
participants’ individual assessments of the longer-run mandate-consiste nt inflation rate as 
measured by the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE).  For 
example, the Committee could indicate – as in 
Alternative A1 – its judgment that the dual 
mandate is consistent with PCE inflation over 
the longer run of “2 percent or a bit less” (in 
line with the central tendency of 1.7 to 2 
percent for those projections in the SEP). 
A more explicit focus on the Committee’s 
longer-run inflat ion goal in its communications 
could, if the goal were deemed credible, be helpful in anchoring inflation expectations 
more firmly, which in turn could provide the 
Committee with greater latitude to provide policy stimulus in response to an adverse 
demand shock.  A firmer anchoring of long-run 
expectations may also grant the Committee 
further leeway to “look through” transitory 
fluctuations in inflation—perhaps due to swings 
in food or energy prices—and to focus its 
actions on offsetting persistent shifts in 
inflation.   While a more explicit focus on the inflation outlook has some potential advantages, it could 
raise communications challenges.  For 
example, the Committee would likely have to 
explain deviations of inflation from the 
announced range.  The Committee might also 
need to provide more information to the public 
regarding its assessment of the persistent and 
transitory factors aff ecting inflation and the 
policy steps that would be consistent with achieving its long-run inflation objective over 
time.  Such information could be provided to 
the public in FOMC statements, the minutes of 
FOMC meetings, and the Monetary Policy 
Report to the Congress, as well as in speeches 
and testimonies of Federal Reserve officials.  
An increased focus on inflation and the 
inflation outlook in communications with the 
public might also call for a greater focus on 
these issues in the Committee’s deliberations.   
An increased focus on inflation in Committee communications could lead some to question 
the Committee’s commitment to the 
“maximum employment” component of its 
dual mandate.   Indeed, the Committee might 
choose to confer with members of the Congress and the Administration before 
announcing a specific numerical range for 
inflation consistent with its mandate in order to 
avoid any misunderstanding on this point.  In 
addition, the Committee might choose to 
emphasize its continuing commitment to the 
dual mandate, but note that adopting a fixed 
target for the unemployment rate is not feasible 
because the natural rate of unemployment is 
outside of the central bank’s control and varies 
over time due to demographic and structural 
factors.  Policymakers could emphasize the 
extent to which the Committee’s two 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 24 of 46
 
 
objectives are complementary and mutually 
reinforcing over longer periods of time, and FOMC communications could also draw further 
atte ntion to participants’ longer-term 
projections of the unemployment rate in the 
 SEP.  At the present time, for example, the 
Committee could note that the actual 
unemployment rate is far above the range of 4.5 
to 6 percent for the longer-term unemployment 
rate projections in the June SEP, and that the 
outlooks for inflation and unemployment currently have similar implications for the policy stance.  Of course, the implications for  
the policy stance of the two legs of the dual 
mandate will likely conflict at times in the 
future.  In such situations, providing the public 
with greater clarity about the Committee’s 
intentions with regard to both parts of its mandate would be helpful in communicating 
the factors determining the Committee’s policy 
stance.
 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 25 of 46
   
 could foster unintended conse quences, potentially includi ng a buildup of macroeconomic 
or financial imbalances.  If left unchecked, such forces could conceivably culminate in a 
scenario such as the one presented in the “Higher Inflation” alte rnative simulation, in 
which inflation expectations jump.  Members may view the associated economic costs of 
such outcomes as being high enough, and may view the effectiveness of the Committee’s 
available policy tools in combating such scen arios as being uncertain enough, that they 
choose to guard against such outcomes by adopting Alternative C.   
The announcement of the statement unde r Alternative C would come as a 
complete surprise to market participants.  As noted above, the primary dealers largely do not expect major changes to the statement langua ge at this meeting, and even see material 
odds of additional asset purchases by y ear-end.  Therefore, the announcement of 
Alternative C would lead investors to greatly  reassess their trajectory for the path of 
monetary policy, especially in the near term.  Short- and intermediate-term interest rates 
would rise and stock prices would fall, pos sibly by substantial amounts.  The foreign-
exchange value of the dollar w ould likely appreciate.  With no advanced warning of this 
change in the Federal Reserv e’s strategy, the functioning of some financial markets could 
possibly be disturbed, at least initially. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 26 of 46
   
 LONG-RUN PROJECTIONS OF THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE 
The staff has prepared three scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy alternatives presente d above:  a baseline scenario corresponding 
to Alternative B, a second scenario correspond ing to Alternatives A1  and A2, and a third 
scenario corresponding to Alternative C.  Projections under each scenario are based on 
assumptions about each component of the balan ce sheet.  Details of these assumptions as 
well as projections for each major component of the balance sheet can be found in Explanatory Note C.  
 
 
 
Under the baseline and the scenario corre sponding to Alterna tive C, the balance 
sheet peaked in size at $2.34 trillion in Ma y 2010 and edges down in the near term as 
credit extensions are repaid, before declin ing more rapidly in the medium term as 
securities mature, prepay, or are sold.  Th e rate of contractio n differs under the two 
scenarios reflecting the different assumpti ons made regarding the duration of the 
reinvestment policy; under the baseline, the reinvestment policy is maintained through the third quarter of 2012 and under Alternative C, the reinvest ment policy is maintained 
through the second quarter of 2011.  Under Alternatives A1 and A2, the balance sheet 
expands in the near term and peaks at $2.78 trillion in March 2011, due to the additional 
$500 billion of longer-term Treasur y securities purchased in these Alternatives, before 
contracting and eventually retu rning to the total a sset path projected under the baseline in 
July 2016, at which time assets will be about $1.44 trillion.  In all th ree scenarios, after 
reserve balances hit the assu med $25 billion floor and the U.S. Treasury’s supplementary 
financing account has been drained, the balanc e sheet begins to expand as purchases of 
Treasury securities match the growth of Fede ral Reserve capital and not es in circulation.  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 27 of 46
   
 In all three scenarios, the ba lance sheet reaches a size of a bout $1.8 trillion by the end of 
2020.7  
In the baseline scenario, which corresponds to Alternative B, the proceeds from 
maturing Treasury securities continue to be reinvested.  Additionally, principal payments 
of agency MBS and agency debt securities  are reinvested in longer-term Treasury 
securities until the target federa l funds rate is assumed to lif toff from its current setting.8  
Immediately after the target fe deral funds rate increases, th e baseline projection assumes 
that agency MBS and agency debt securities holdings are al lowed to mature or prepay 
without reinvestment, while principal payments  from Treasury securities continue to be 
reinvested.  Six months after the assumed rise in the target  federal funds rate, the FOMC 
begins asset sales.9  Specifically, beginning at that tim e, remaining holdings of agency 
MBS and agency debt securities as well as longer-term Treasury securities that were 
purchased under the reinvestment policy are so ld or run off over five years and reach zero 
by the end of the first quarter of 2018.10 
In the scenario corresponding to Alternatives A1 and A2, an additional $500 
billion of longer-term Treasury s ecurities are purchased by the end of the first quarter of 
2011, at which time, total SOMA holdings re ach $2.55 trillion.  A sset sales under this 
scenario, which begin at the same  time as in the baseline scenario, include the sale of this 
additional $500 billion of longe r-term Treasury securities.  Fo r this reason, total assets 
decline somewhat more rapidly relative to the baseline scenario once th e sale of securities 
begins, as more securities are being sold over the same five-year period.  
In the scenario corresponding to Alterna tive C, the reinvestment of agency MBS 
and agency debt securities is  halted at the end of the second quarter of 2011, five quarters 
earlier than in the baseline.  As a result, to tal assets decrease more rapidly than in the 
baseline from this point until the sale of assets starts. 
Under the baseline scenario, total assets are projected to be higher over the next 
few years than in the baseline projection that  was presented in August.  This revision 
                                                 
7 The composition of Federal Reserve assets in these projections differs notably at times from historical 
patterns.  Prior to August 2007, U.S. Treasury secu rities made up 100 percent of the domestic securities 
portfolio.  By contrast, under the baseline scenario, Treasury securities are projected to account for only 
around 44 percent of the domestic securities portfolio at  the end of 2010.  However, by the end of 2020, 
Treasury securities again account for 100 pe rcent of the domestic securities portfolio. 
8 The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate lifts off in the fourth quarter of 2012.  All 
scenarios assume a path for the federal funds rate consistent with this projection, independent of the 
projected size of the balance sheet  under the different scenarios. 
9 The baseline balance sheet projection assumes that  the tools to drain reserve balances (reverse 
repurchase agreements and the term deposit facility) are not used. 
10 Given the maturity schedule for agency debt s ecurities, the amount of sales necessary to reduce 
holdings of these securities to zero over the five year period is minimal. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 28 of 46
   
 reflects the increase in holdings of longer-t erm Treasury securities stemming from the 
reinvestment policy.  The path for holdings of  agency MBS is lower than in the August 
Tealbook balance sheet projecti on resulting from a somewhat faster rate of forecasted 
prepayments of agency MBS. 
On the liability side of the balance sheet, under the base line, reserve balances are 
higher than in the previous Tealbook balance sheet project ion over the next couple of 
years as a result of th e reinvestment policy.  With this higher path for reserve balances, 
the U.S. Treasury’s supplementary financi ng account is not run down to zero until 
January 2016, one year later than in the last projection.  Under the baseline scenario, the 
monetary base is projected to contract, on net, through mid-2015, reflecting the decline in 
reserve balances. 
 
 Jan-10 -17.8 -17.8 -17.8
Feb-10 72.2 72.2 72.2
Mar-10 -19.7 -19.7 -19.7
Apr-10 -37.6 -37.6 -37.6
May-10 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0
Jun-10 -5.8 -5.8 -5.8
Jul -10 -2.2 -2.2 -2.2
Aug-10 -2.3 -2.3 -2.3
Sep-10 1.5 23.0 1.5
Oct-10 13.3 55.3 13.3
Nov-10 0.8 41.1 0.8
Dec-10 -16.5 23.9 -16.5
2010 Q1 14.0 14.0 14.0
2010 Q2 -10.4 -10.4 -10.42010 Q3 -2.6 -0.2 -2.62010 Q4 2.8 36.0 2.8
2009 41.5 41.5 41.52010 0.9 9.8 0.92011 -0.4 14.3 -4.8
2012 -3.5 -2.8 -11.6
2013 -12.9 -12.8 -12.92014 -16.7 -18.0 -15.62015 -8.2 -21.1 3.5
Note: Not seasonally adjusted.Percent, annual rate
Monthly
Quarterly
Annual - Q4 to Q4 Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date BaselineAlternatives 
A1 and A2Alternative C
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 29 of 46
   
 DEBT, BANK CREDIT , AND MONEY FORECASTS  
Domestic nonfinancial sector debt is projected to expand at an average annual rate 
of about 4 percent during the s econd half of this year, with  private domestic nonfinancial 
debt remaining about unchanged and govern ment debt growing rapidly; domestic 
nonfinancial debt is expected to grow at a 5 percent pace in 2011 and 2012.  In spite of 
historically low mortgage ra tes, sluggish housing demand an d declining house prices are 
projected to weigh heavily on the growth of residential mortgage debt through the first 
half of 2011; this category of debt is projected to expand a bit in late 2011 and 2012 as 
conditions in the housing sector improve.  Af ter declining a bit fu rther in the current 
quarter, consumer credit is expected to pick up late this year and th en expand at a robust 
pace in 2011 and 2012, supported by a gradual increase in spending on consumer 
durables.  Although standards and terms for bank loans to businesses are easing 
somewhat, lending conditions nonetheless remain  tight, and the relatively low projected 
level of capital spending and firms’ very high holdings of liquid assets suggest continued 
weak demand for external funding.  Conse quently, borrowing by nonfinancial businesses 
is expected to be tepid, with debt in this sector increasing at about a 1½ percent rate over 
the second half of 2010 and at a somewhat faster pace in 2011 and 2012.  Federal 
government debt is projected to grow at a double-digit rate over th e forecast period.   
Commercial bank credit is expe cted to increase slightly in the current quarter, as a 
continued decline in loans is offset by robust growth in banks’ securities holdings.  After 
running off for the first three quarters of 2010, however, bank credit is projected to 
increase about 1½ percent in the fourth quarter, 2¾ percent in 2011, and 3½ percent in 
2012, as modest loan growth resumes and secu rities expand at a moderate rate.  The 
runoff in commercial and industrial loans is e xpected to end next qua rter, but growth in 
this loan category is projected to rema in subdued throughout the forecast period.  We 
expect commercial real estate loans to c ontract over 2011 and remain flat in 2012, as 
fundamentals continue to depress activity in that market.  Consumer loans at banks are 
forecasted to contract slightly in the second half of 2010, and then increase modestly in 
2011 and 2012 as economic activity picks up, and we anticipate reside ntial real estate 
loans will accelerate gradually over the same period.  Banks’ securities holdings are projected to expand at a moderate pace over the forecast period, as banks continue to 
favor safe and liquid investments amid w eak loan demand and solid deposit growth. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 30 of 46
   
 M2 is projected to expand at a slower pace than nominal GDP over the forecast 
period.  The relatively slow growth of M2 refl ects a projected shift in investors’ portfolio 
allocations away from safe assets in M2 and toward riskier assets as overall financial 
conditions and the economic outlook continue to  improve.  Growth of liquid deposits is 
anticipated to slow somewhat from its robus t 2009 pace but remain solid over the forecast 
period.  Small time deposits and retail money market funds are projected to contract through 2012, though with a moderating pace of dec line.  Currency growth is projected to 
be subdued as precautionary demand for currency from abroad wanes. 
 
  Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook For ecast*
Jan-10 -7.9
Feb-10 8.7
Mar-10 -3.4
Apr-10 -3.9
May-10 11.6
Jun-10 4.4
Jul-10 0.0
Aug-10 6.6
Sep-10 4.8
Oct-10 1.1
Nov-10 1.1
Dec-10 1.2
Quarterly Growth Rates
2010 Q1 0.0
2010 Q2 2.0
2010 Q3 4.2
2010 Q4 2.5
Annual Growth Rates
2009 5.1
2010 2.2
2011 1.3
2012 4.5
* This forecast is consistent with nominal G DP and interest rates in the Tealbook
forecast. Actual data through August 2010; projections thereafter.Growth Rates for M2
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate)
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 31 of 46
   
 DIRECTIVE  
The August directive appear s below.  Drafts for a September directive that 
correspond to each of the four policy alternat ives appear on subsequent pages.  The 
directive for Alternatives B and C would instru ct the Desk to maintain the SOMA’s total 
holdings of longer-term securi ties at approximately its cu rrent level by continuing to 
reinvest repayments of principal from ag ency debt and MBS in longer-term Treasury 
securities.  The directives co rresponding to Alternatives A1 and A2 would instruct the 
Desk to purchase $500 billion of longer-term Treasury securities by the end of March 
2011 while continuing the current portfolio po licy of reinvesting principal payments. 
 
 
 
August 2010 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
maintain the total face value of domestic s ecurities held in the System Open Market 
Account at approximately $2 tr illion by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in longer-term Treasury securities.  The 
Committee directs the Desk to engage in dol lar roll and coupon swap  transactions as 
necessary to facilitate settlement of the Fe deral Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.  The 
System Open Market Account Manager a nd the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 32 of 46
   
 September 2010 FOMC Dire ctive — Alternative A1 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk 
to execute purchases of about $500 billion of  longer-term Treasury  securities by the 
end of March 2011 in order to increase the total face value of domestic securities 
held in the System Open Market A ccount to approximately $2.5 trillion.  The 
Committee  also directs the Desk to  maintain the to tal face value of domestic securities 
held in the System Open Market Account at approximately $2 trillion by reinvesting  
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities. The Committee dire cts the Desk to enga ge in dollar roll and 
coupon swap transactions as necessary to f acilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s 
agency MBS transactions. The System Open Market Acco unt Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Co mmittee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 33 of 46
   
 September 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative A2 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk 
to execute purchases of about $500 billion of  longer-term Treasury  securities by the 
end of March 2011 in order to increase the total face value of domestic securities 
held in the System Open Market A ccount to approximately $2.5 trillion.  The 
Committee  also directs the Desk to  maintain the total f ace value of domestic securities 
held in the System Open Market Account at approximately $2 trillion by reinvesting  
principal payments from agency debt and ag ency mortgage-backed securities in longer-
term Treasury securities.  The Committee directs the Desk  to engage in dollar roll and 
coupon swap transactions as necessary to faci litate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s 
agency MBS transactions. The System Open Market Acco unt Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Committee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 34 of 46
   
 September 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
maintain the total face value of domestic s ecurities held in the System Open Market 
Account at approximately $2 tr illion by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in longer-term Treasury securities.  The 
Committee directs the Desk to engage in dol lar roll and coupon swap  transactions as 
necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transactions. The 
System Open Market Account Manager a nd the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
 
  
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 35 of 46
   
 September 2010 FOMC Directive — Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
maintain the total face value of domestic s ecurities held in the System Open Market 
Account at approximately $2 tr illion by reinvesting principal payments from agency debt 
and agency mortgage-backed securities in longer-term Treasury securities.  The 
Committee directs the Desk to engage in dol lar roll and coupon swap  transactions as 
necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transactions. The 
System Open Market Account Manager a nd the Secretary will keep the Committee 
informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect 
the attainment over time of the Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and 
price stability. 
 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 36 of 46
Explanatory Notes 
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The equilibrium real rate is the real federa l funds rate that, if maintained, would be 
projected to return output to its potential level over time.  The short-run equilibrium rate is 
defined as the rate that would close the output  gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding 
model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal 
funds rate projected to keep output at poten tial in seven years, under the assumption that 
monetary policy acts to bring actual and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps 
them equal thereafter.  The TIPS-based factor model measure provides an estimate of market 
expectations for the real federal funds rate seven years ahead.  
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy—
depend on data for major spending categories, price and wages, and the federal funds rate as well as the model’ s structure and estimate of the output 
gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented—based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the 
output gap conditional on the extended baseline. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 37 of 46
   
Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the nominal 
rate and realized inflation, where the nominal ra te is measured as the quarterly average of the 
observed federal funds rate, and r ealized inflation is given by the log difference between the core 
PCE price index and its lagged value four quarter s earlier.  If the upcoming FOMC meeting falls 
early in the quarter, the lagged inflation measure e nds in the last quarter.  For the current quarter, 
the nominal rate is specified as the target fede ral funds rate on the Tealbook publication date.   
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on the proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimated real federal funds  rates based on lagged core PCE inflation, the 
definition used in the Equilibrium Real Federa l Funds Rate chart; lagged four-quarter headline 
PCE inflation; and projected four-quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  
For each estimate of the real rate, the table also provides the Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based 
measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate a nd the average actual real federal funds rate over 
the next twelve quarters. 
Proxy used for  
expected infl
ation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current value) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Average actual 
real funds rate 
(twelve-quarter 
average) 
Lagged core inflation -1.2 -2.4 -0.6 
Lagged headline 
inflation -1.3 -2.5 -0.7 
Projected headline inflation -1.1 -2.5 -0.7 
 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 38 of 46
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS   
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧  and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap in the current period and 
one quarter ahead (   ݕ௧െ כ ݕ
௧ and  ݕଵ|௧ െ כݕ
௧ା ௧ାଵ|௧ ), and the three-quarter-ahead forecast of annual 
average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ|െ Δସכݕ
௧ ௧ାଷ|௧ ), and denotes an assumed value of 
policymakers’ long-run inflation objective.  Th e outcome-based and forecast-based rules were 
estimated using real-time data over the samp le 1988:1-2006:4; each specification was chosen 
using the Bayesian information criterion. Each rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the 
intercept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point  increments during the first three quarters of 
1998.  The first two simple rules were proposed by  Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the 
first-difference rule do not de pend on assumptions regarding r*  or the level of the output gap; see 
Orphanides (2003).     
Outcome-based rule  ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
Forecast-based rule  ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
  ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅௧ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅௧ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ 
First-difference rule  ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ 
FRB/US MODEL SIMULATIONS   
Prescriptions from the two empirical rules are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969-2008.  
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL MARKETS    
The expected funds rate path is based on Eurodollar quotes and implied three-month 
forward rates from  swaps, and the confidence interv als for this path are constructed using prices 
of interest rate caps.  
Explanatory Notes   
 
        
 
     
   
 
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 39 of 46
   
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES   
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap. Because the first-difference rule involves the lagged funds rate, the value labeled “Previous 
Tealbook” for the current quarter is computed usi ng the actual value of the lagged funds rate, and 
the one-quarter-ahead prescriptions are based on this rule’s prescription for the current quarter.  
REFERENCES  
Taylor, John B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214. 
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341. 
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
 
 
  
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 40 of 46
   
C. Long-run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section entitled “Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are construc ted on a monthly frequency from September 
2010 to December 2020.  The few balance sheet ite ms that are not discussed below are assumed 
to be constant over the projection period at the level observed on August 31, 2010.  The 
projections for all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the 
tables that follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projection assumes that the federal funds rate begins to increase in the 
fourth quarter of 2012.  The balance sheet projections assume that no use of short-term draining tools is necessary to achieve the project ed path for the federal funds rate. 
ASSETS  
Treasury securities, agency MBS, and agency debt securities 
 The baseline scenario, which co rresponds to Alternative B. 
o Treasury securities held in the SOMA portf olio are reinvested as they mature.  
The current weighted average maturity of Treasury securities is about seven 
years.   
o Principal payments of agency MBS and ag ency debt securities are reinvested in 
Treasury coupon securities (“longer-term Treasury securities”) until the federal 
funds rate increases in the fourth quarter of 2012.   
o The Federal Reserve will begin to sell agency MBS and agency debt securities, 
as well as longer-term Treasury securities that were purchased under the reinvestment policy, six months after th e FOMC increases the federal funds rate.  
At this point, the holdings of agency MBS and agency debt securities and longer-term Treasury securities purchased under the reinvestment policy are reduced 
over five years and reach zero by the end of the first quarter of 2018.   
o For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment  is based on estimates of housing market 
factors from one of the program’s investment managers and interest rate projections from the Tealbook.  The projected rate of prepayment is sensitive to 
these underlying assumptions. 
 Under Alternatives A1 and A2, an additiona l $500 billion of longer-term Treasury 
securities are purchased by the end of the first quarter of 2011.  Asset sales under the 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 41 of 46
   
scenario associated with these alternatives, which begin at the same time as in the 
baseline scenario, include the sale of the additional $500 billion of longer-term Treasury 
securities. 
 Under Alternative C, the reinvestment of th e proceeds of agency MBS and agency debt 
securities is halted at the end of the second quarter of 2011, five quarters earlier than in 
the baseline.  The Tealbook projects that GDP  accelerates in 2011, and this alternative 
assumes that the FOMC halts its policy of reinvestment in response. 
 In all three scenarios, a minimum level of $25  billion is set for reserve balances.  To 
ensure that reserve balances do not fall be low this minimum level, first the U.S. 
Treasury’s supplementary financing account (SFA ) is reduced.  After the SFA declines to 
zero, Treasury bills are purchased.  Purch ases of bills continue until these securities 
comprise one-third of the Federal Reserve’s total Treasury securities holdings – about the 
average level prior to the crisis.  Once this  level is reached, the Federal Reserve buys 
notes and bonds in addition to bills to maintain an approximate composition of the 
portfolio of one-third bills and two-thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
 Loans through the Term Asset -Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) peaked at $49 
billion in March 2010.  Credit extended through this facility declines to zero by the end 
of 2015, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
 The assets held by TALF LLC increase to $1 .3 billion by the end of 2014, before 
declining to zero thereafter.  Assets held by TALF LLC consist of investments of 
commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in connec tion with a decision of a borrower not to 
repay a TALF loan.  
 Credit extended to AIG, the sum of the Fede ral Reserve Bank of New York’s extension 
of revolving credit and its preferred interest s in AIA Aurora LLC and ALICO Holdings 
LLC, increases slightly to $51 billion in Oct ober 2010 and then declines to zero by the 
end of 2013. 
 The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC, Maid en Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 
are sold over time and reach either zero or a minimal level by the end of 2016.  
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
 Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the end of 2012.  From 2013 to  the end of the projection period, Federal 
Reserve notes in circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as projected in the 
extended Tealbook forecast. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 42 of 46
   
 The U.S. Treasury’s general account (TGA) follows the staff forecast for end-of-month 
U.S. Treasury operating cash balances through the first quarter of 2011.1  At that point, 
the TGA drops back to its historical target level of $5 billion as it is assumed that the Treasury will have implemented a new cash mana gement system that allows it to invest 
funds in excess of $5 billion.  The TGA remain s constant at $5 billion over the remainder 
of the forecast period. 
 Balances in the SFA remain at their current le vel until the SFA is reduced to ensure that 
the level of reserve balances does not fall below $25 billion. 
 Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
 In general, increases in the level of assets of the Federal Reserve generate higher levels of 
reserve balances.  Increases in the levels of  other liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or the Treasury’s general account, like increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 billion, purchases of 
Treasury securities are assumed in order to ma intain that level of reserve balances. 
 
                                                 
1 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of 
both the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Treasury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is a good proxy 
for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 43 of 46
   
 
 End-of-Year
Aug 01, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,308 2,292 2,172 1,653 1,471 1,631 1,820
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 37 37 11 2 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 37 37 11 2 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 114 100 49 9 2 0 0
Credit extended to AIG 46 47 20 0 0 0 0
68 53 29 9 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,046 2,054 2,024 1,565 1,399 1,564 1,757
U.S. Treasury securities 786 906 1,311 1,124 1,228 1,564 1,757Agency debt securities 157 147 77 39 16 0 0Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,103 1,000 636 402 154 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0Total other assets 111 100 87 76 70 67 64
Total liabilities
2,250 2,233 2,094 1,550 1,334 1,450 1,582
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 908 917 978 1,109 1,226 1,342 1,474Reverse repurchase agreements with foreign official 
a n d  i n t e r n a t i o n a l  a c c o u n t s 6 06 05 95 95 95 95 9
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,264 1,237 1,041 367 35 35 35  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 984 964 831 157 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 7 6 7 055555
  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 200 0 0 0
Other balances
12255555
Total capital 57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Baseline Scenario (Alternative B)
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 44 of 46
   
 End-of-Year
Aug 01, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,308 2,578 2,672 1,978 1,471 1,631 1,820
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 37 37 11 2 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 37 37 11 2 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 114 100 49 9 2 0 0
Credit extended to AIG 46 47 20 0 0 0 0
68 53 29 9 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,046 2,340 2,524 1,890 1,399 1,564 1,757
U.S. Treasury securities 786 1,192 1,811 1,449 1,228 1,564 1,757Agency debt securities 157 147 77 39 16 0 0Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,103 1,000 636 402 154 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0
Total other assets 111 100 87 76 70 67 64
Total liabilities
2,250 2,519 2,594 1,875 1,334 1,450 1,582
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 908 917 978 1,109 1,226 1,342 1,474
Reverse repurchase agreements with foreign official 
a n d  i n t e r n a t i o n a l  a c c o u n t s 6 06 05 95 95 95 95 9
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,264 1,522 1,541 692 35 35 35  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 984 1,250 1,331 482 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 7 6 7 055555  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 200 0 0 0
Other balances
12255555
Total capital 57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternatives A1 and A2
N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 45 of 46
   
 
 End-of-Year
Aug 01, 2010 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
$ Billions
Total assets 2,308 2,292 1,931 1,496 1,471 1,631 1,820
Selected assets:
Liquidity programs for financial firms 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Central bank liquidity swaps 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lending though other credit facilities 37 37 11 2 0 0 0
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 37 37 11 2 0 0 0
Support for specific institutions 114 100 49 9 2 0 0
Credit extended to AIG 46 47 20 0 0 0 0
68 53 29 9 2 0 0
Securities held outright 2,046 2,054 1,783 1,408 1,399 1,564 1,757
U.S. Treasury securities 786 906 1,070 968 1,228 1,564 1,757Agency debt securities 157 147 77 39 16 0 0Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,103 1,000 636 402 154 0 0
Special drawing rights certificate account 5 5 7 7 7 7 7Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 1 0 0 0Total other assets 111 100 87 76 70 67 64
Total liabilities
2,250 2,233 1,853 1,393 1,334 1,450 1,582
Selected liabilities:
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 908 917 978 1,109 1,226 1,342 1,474Reverse repurchase agreements with foreign official 
a n d  i n t e r n a t i o n a l  a c c o u n t s 6 06 05 95 95 95 95 9
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,264 1,237 800 211 35 35 35  Reserve balances held by depository institutions 984 964 590 25 25 25 25  U . S .  T r e a s u r y ,  g e n e r a l  a c c o u n t 7 6 7 055555
  U.S. Treasury, supplementary financing account 200 200 200 176 0 0 0
Other balances
12255555
Total capital 57 59 78 103 136 180 239
Source:  Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical release and staff calculations.
Note:  Com ponents m ay not sum  to totals due to rounding.Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
N et portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
September 16, 2010
Page 46 of 46