 Prefatory Note 
 
 
T
he attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable p rovisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.  
Content last modified 02/03 /2017.   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass I FOMC – Restricted Controlled (FR) 
Report to the FOMC 
on Economic Conditions 
and Monetary Policy 
Book B 
 
Monetary Policy: 
Strategies and Alternatives 
December 8, 2011 
Prepared for the Federa l Open Market Committee 
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 

Monetary Policy Strategies 
The staff’s estimates of short-run r*—the real federal funds rate that, if 
maintained, would return output to its pot ential in 12 quarters —generally have not 
changed significantly since the October Tealboo k.  As shown in the exhibit, “Equilibrium  
Real Federal Funds Rate,” all but one of th e estimates of the equilibrium real federal 
funds rate continue to be more negative than the estimated actual real federal funds rate, 
and all are low by histor ical standards.  The estimates of short-run r* generated by the 
FRB/US model and the EDO m odel that are conditioned on the staff’s outlook for the 
economy (that is, the “Tealbook-consistent” m easures) are essentially unrevised.  The 
reason these r* estimates are largely unchanged desp ite a downward revision to the staff 
outlook for economic activity is that the staff al so lowered the past and projected path for 
potential GDP.  However, the short-run r*  estimates derived from the small structural 
model and the single-equation model increased by 30 and 40 basis points, respectively.  
The  r* estimates derived from these models shifted up in respons e to the staff’s 
reassessment of the historical level of poten tial output, which implied that the current 
output gap is narrower than prev iously estimated.  Finally, the r* estimates produced by 
the FRB/US model and the EDO model based on  their own projections  revised up a little, 
reflecting small movements since October in the models’ output gap projections over the 
medium term.  
The staff’s outlook for inflation and res ource utilization over the medium-term  
has changed little over the intermeeting peri od.  Consequently, the policy prescriptions 
from optimal control simulations of the FRB/US model that take account of the 
underlying economic conditions in the extende d staff baseline projection line up fairly 
closely with those reported  in the previous Tealbook.1  This result is shown in the exhibit 
“Constrained vs. Unconstrained Monetary Po licy.”  In these simulations, policymakers 
are assumed to place equal weights on keeping headline PCE inflation close to a 2 
percent inflation goal, on keep ing the unemployment rate close to the staff’s estimate of  
the effective natural rate of unemployment,  and on minimizing changes in the federal 
funds rate.   
1 The staff’s baseline forecast incorp orates the effects of the large-s cale asset purchase program that 
was completed at the end of June, as well as the effects of the maturity extension program and the 
modifications announced in September to the Federal Reserve’s reinvestment policies. As a result, these 
effects have been incorporated into the optimal policy simulations. 
Strategies  
                                                 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 1 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Authorized for Public Release
Authorized for Public Release
The simulations indicate that the optimal path for the federal funds rate does not 
begin to rise appreciably above zero until mid-2016, about one quarter later than in the 
previous Tealbook.2  By keeping the funds rate near zero for such  a long stretch of time, 
optimal policy would promote a faster pace of economic recovery than under the baseline 
as well as somewhat higher inflation over the medium run.3  Specifically, the 
unemployment rate would fall to 5¼ per cent by 2016 (thereby undershooting the staff’s 
estimate of the effective natural rate of unemployment for a time) and headline inflation would be running at about 2¼ percent.  In co ntrast, the baseline staff forecast shows the 
unemployment rate falling to only 6½ percen t and inflation running closer to 1½ percent 
in 2016 (not shown).   
If the nominal federal funds rate could fall below zero, the funds rate under 
optimal policy would decline to minus 3 percent in the first half of 2013 and would not turn positive until the second quarter of 2015.  In this case, the unemployment rate would 
decline more rapidly than under the constr ained policy and would then remain roughly 
stable at about 5½ percent after 2015.  Under the constrained policy, inflation would stay 
above target for longer than under the uncons trained policy, as policymakers are assumed 
to respond to the lower bound constraint by cr edibly promising a period of modestly 
elevated future inflation in order to boost in flation expectations and lower real rates over 
the early part of the simulation. 
As shown in the upper left panel of the exhibit “Policy Rules and Market-Based 
Expectations for the Federal Funds Rate,”  the funds rate projection implied by the 
estimated outcome-based policy rule is little changed relative to the October Tealbook.  According to this rule, the funds rate is expected to move above its effective lower bound in the fourth quarter of 2014—about one quart er later than in the previous Tealbook— 
and then to rise to 2¾ percent by the end of 2016.
4  As shown in the upper right panel, 
2 Although the loss function uses headline inflation inst ead of core inflation, th e real federal funds rate 
shown in the upper right panel of the exhibit is calcu lated as the difference betw een the nominal funds rate 
and a four-quarter moving average of core PCE inflation. Core PCE inflation is used to compute the real 
rate because it provides a less volatile measure of infla tion expectations than a four-quarter moving average 
of headline inflation, and because it makes the real rate path shown in this exhibit easier to compare with 
measures of the real ra te reported elsewhere. 
3 These simulations embed the assumption that policymakers can credibly commit to a policy rate path 
that extends many years into the future, conditiona l on underlying economic conditions unfolding as 
expected. 
4 The estimated outcome-based rule depends on the lagged federal funds rate, defined as the actual 
policy rate observed in the previous quarter, which has been constrained by its effective lower bound since 
Strategies    
                                                    
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 4 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Policy Rules and Market-Based Expectations for the Federal Funds Rate 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Percent 
Note:  In calculating the near-term prescriptions of these simple policy rules, policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is
assumed to be 2 percent.  Explanatory Note B provides further background information. For rules which have the lagged
policy rate as a right-hand-side variable, the lines denoted "Previous Tealbook Outlook" report rule prescriptions based
on the previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, but jumping off from the average value for the policy rate thus far in the quarter. FRB/US Model Simulations of
Estimated Outcome-Based Rule 
Note:  The staff baseline projection for the federal funds rate is derived from the outcome-based policy rule shown in 
the top-left panel.  The top-right panel depicts the mean path and confidence intervals of future federal funds rates derived from market quotes as of December 7. In both panels, dark and light shadings represent the 70 and 90 percent confidence intervals respectively. Explanatory Note B provides further background information. Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Memo 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Percent Market-Based Expectations
for the Federal Funds Rate 
Current Tealbook 
Previous Tealbook 
Near-Term Prescriptions of Simple Policy Rules 
Constrained Policy Unconstrained Policy 
2012Q1 2012Q2 2012Q1 2012Q2 
Taylor (1993) rule 0.90 0.59 0.90 0.59
     Previous Tealbook 0.86 0.62 0.86 0.62 
Taylor (1999) rule 0.13 0.13 -1.82 -2.15
     Previous Tealbook 0.13 0.13 -2.09 -2.28 
Estimated outcome-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.11 -0.42
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13 -0.12 -0.39 
Estimated forecast-based rule 0.13 0.13 -0.27 -0.61
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13 -0.24 -0.60 
First-difference rule 0.13 0.13 -0.02 -0.14
     Previous Tealbook Outlook 0.13 0.13  0.03  0.01 
2012Q1 2012Q2 
Staff assumption 0.08 0.10 
Fed funds futures 0.10 0.13 
Median expectation of primary dealers 0.13 0.13 
Blue Chip forecast (December 1, 2011) 0.10 0.10 
Strategies012345678  
012345678  
 
 
  
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 5 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
information from financial markets suggests that  investors’ expectati ons for the path of 
the federal funds rate have declined only s lightly since the Oct ober Tealbook.  Market 
participants continue to expect the funds rate  to remain within its  current target range 
until the second half of 2013.  Thereafter, funds rate expectations are estimated to rise a 
bit more gradually than in the previous T ealbook, reaching about 2 percent by the end of 
2016. 
The lower panel of the exhibit provides near-term prescriptions from simple 
policy rules.5  As shown in the left-hand columns, prescriptions for the federal funds rate 
from most of the rules remain at  or near the effective lower bound.6  The right-hand 
columns display the prescriptions that would ar ise from these rules in the absence of the 
lower-bound constraint.  While the staff foresees a narrower output gap over the near-
term than in the October Teal book, near-term inflation projecti ons have declined a little, 
with the consequence that, on net, prescriptio ns from all rules have remained broadly 
unchanged compared with the October Tealbook. 
late 2008.  See the accompanying box “Policy Rule Prescriptio ns and the Lower Bound on Interest Rates” 
for a discussion of possible re sponses to this constraint. 
5 In contrast to the optimal control simulations, which use headline inflation in the policymakers’ 
objective function, the policy rule prescriptions use core  inflation as the measure of inflation.  This choice 
of rule specification was made in light of the tendency for current and near-term core inflation rates to 
outperform headline inflation rates as predictors of the medium-term behavior of headline inflation.  Thus, the use of headline inflation in the optimal control simulations and of core inflation in the policy rules are both consistent with the notion that policymakers are concerned with the medium-term behavior of headline inflation. 
6 The Taylor (1993) rule, which places less weight on  the output gap, prescrib es policy rates above 50 
basis points, but below 1 percent, for the first two quarters of 2012. 
Strategies    
                                                                                                                                                    
 
   
  
 
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 6 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
   
          
    
         
        
 
      
     
     
     
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
        
   
   
                                                 
           
       
               
     
         
           
            
            
Strategies
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011Policy Rule Prescriptions and the Lower Bound on Interest Rates 
Since late 2008, the lower bound on nominal interest rates has kept the federal funds rate 
above the prescriptions of almost all of the simple policy rules reported in the Tealbook . 
This fact is illustrated in the figures below, which show with blue lines the unconstrained 
prescriptions of the outcome- based rule (upper-le ft panel), the first -difference rule (upper­
right panel), and the Taylor 1999 rule ( lower- left panel). 1 The unconstrained prescriptions 
of these three rules have been markedly below the actual funds rate since early 2009, and 
are projected to remain so through 2014 . In contrast, the Taylor 1993 rule ( the red line in 
the lower- left panel) , because of its weak er response to economic slack, has consistently 
prescribed levels of the funds rate close to actual values .2 
In the research literature, a standard response to the lower bound problem is to substitute 
future policy accommodation for the easing that would have occurred in the absence of the 
lower bound. Prior research suggests that one way to achieve this outcome is to promise 
to make up, over time, some or all of the deviations from the rule that result from hitting 
the lower bound, as economic circumstances and the easing of the constraint allow.   
1 The rules used in this box are described in Explanatory Note B . The unconstrained prescriptions of 
the outcome -based and first -difference rules are dynamically simulated from 2008Q4 , while those 
reported in the Monetary Policy Strategies section of Tealbook B are calculated using the actual lagged 
federal funds rate from the most recent quarter. 
2 The staff’s baseline forecast incorporates the effects of the large- scale asset purchase program that 
was completed at the end of June, as well as the effects of the maturity extension program and the 
modifications to the Fe deral Reserve's investment policies announced in September. No adjustment is 
made to the intercept or coefficient terms of the simple rules to account for these policies. 
Page 7 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
To bring out  the implications of such  a strategy,  the table at the bottom -right of the 
previous page reports the cumulative shortfall to date for these four rules.   In the case of  
the outcome- based rule, the cumulative shortfall is nearly  7.5  percentage- point  years , 
implying  that  policymakers  would  need  to keep  the federal funds rate 2.5  percenta ge  
points below t he rule’s  prescriptions  for three  years to  completely  make up  for past  
departures from  the rule.   Full makeup would involve similarly large adjustments in the case 
of the first -difference rule and the Taylor 1999 rule, but would imply almost no modification  
to the prescriptions  of  the Taylor 1993 rule.  3  
The f
irst-difference rule respond s  to  projected  change s  in resource utilization, not  the level 
of the output gap.  This  characteristic  helps  mitigate problems arising from  
mismeasurement of  economic slack  but  can  also compound the poor performance  of the 
rule  near the effective  lower bound.  Note, for example, that the  constrained  first -
difference rule —in  contrast to the unconstrained  rule —calls  for policy restraint  relatively  
promptly as slack diminishes, both  because of  the responsiveness  of  the rule to the  
expected  change in the output gap  and because the lagged level of the federal funds rate is  
constrained  to be at its effective lower bound.  The outcome- based rule exhibits  similar 
behavior  (albeit in a more muted form) because its  prescriptions depend  not only on  
inflation and the level of the output gap, but also on the c hange in  the output gap and  
lagged constrained  value s  of the funds rate.  Simulation analysis  suggests that  this ty pe of  
dependence may inhibit  economic  recovery  when policy is  constrained  for a time by  the  
lower bound.  Accordingly, Committee participants  who take counsel from rules of this  
nature may want to make allowances for the influence of this effect, perhaps by  replacing  
the actual lag ged  funds rate in the rule with  its  unconstrained  lagged value, by augmenting  
the rule with an  additional response to the level of resource utilization, or by pursuing  the 
“make up” strategy discussed above.    
The general strategy of promising  to compensate for past shortfalls in policy rule settings is  
similar, in some respects, to one in which  the central bank  targets  the level of  nominal 
income.  The latter strategy involves promising to close, over time, any shortfall  from the  
target  path for nominal income that  opens up while policy is  constrained by the lower 
bound.4   The effectiveness of both approaches depends critically on forward -looking  
behavior on  the part of the public and the successful communication and credibility of  
policy.  Each strategy has its merits, and we cannot say which would perform best  in  
practice.  One advantage of the “makeup”  strategy may  be that  it  makes clear that  policy  
setting will return  to a more historically  typical approach once the cu mulative past  shortfall 
has been  made up, whereas nominal- income targeting would likely involve a more distinct  
break from past practices.  At the same time, research  suggests  that  nominal- income 
targeting and related  strategies may  have especially  good properties in stabilizing  real 
activity and inflation in  the face of  a range of shocks.  
3 For a more extensive discussion of this strategy, see David Reifschneider and John C. Williams 
(2000), “Three Lessons for Monetary Policy in a Low Inflation Era,” Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , 
32(4): 936 −966. 
4 See, in particular, “Alternative Monetary Policy Frameworks” by Christopher Erceg, Michael Kiley 
and David López -Salido (October 6 , 2011) and “Adopting an Alternative Monetary Policy Framework” by 
Christopher Erceg, David López -Salido and Robert Tetlow (July 29 , 2011). 
Strategies   
                                                  
           
           
  
            
              
        
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 8 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Monetary Policy Alternatives 
This Tealbook presents three policy alte rnatives—labeled A, B, and C—for the 
Committee’s consideration.  Of course, the Committee could blend components of the various 
alternatives to construct its desired statement.   
The alternatives provide a number of opti ons regarding balanc e sheet policies.  
Alternative A offers the Comm
ittee a choice be tween two new asset purchase programs:  one 
that is discrete in nature ( buy $500 billion of agency mortgage -backed securities (MBS) by the 
end of December 2012), and one that reflects a more incremental but open-ended approach 
(initially buy $40 billion of agency  MBS per month, and adjust the program as needed to foster 
the Committee’s objectives).1  Alternatives A and B maintain the maturity extension program  
that the Committee announced at its September meeting, while Alternative C reduces the size of 
this program by half and draws it to  a close three months earlier.  All three alternatives continue 
the Committee’s existing policies of reinvesti ng principal payments on agency debt and MBS 
into MBS and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.   
The draft statements offer several approaches  for providing guidance regarding the future 
path of the federal funds rate.  Alternativ e B reiterates the Committee’s existing forward 
guidance by noting that economic conditions are lik ely to warrant exceptionally low levels for 
the federal funds rate “at leas t through mid-2013.”  Alternativ e C begins to remove policy 
accommodation in part by shortening the projected period over which rates will stay low to “at least through 2012.”  Alterna tive A provides further policy accommodation by lengthening the 
anticipated period of near-zero rates to “at least through th e end of 2014.”  Alternative A also 
would clarify the conditional nature of the forward guida nce by adding forecasts for 
unemployment and inflation at the end of 2014.
2  
1 For a comparison of the relative merits of specifying a discrete versus an incremental strategy for expanding 
the balance sheet, see the memo “Incremental Balance Sheet Policies” (by David Reifschneider, John Roberts, and 
Jae Sim of the Federal Reserve Board) that was sent to the Committee on October 24, 2011. 
2 For a discussion of alternative forms of forward rate  guidance, see the memo “App roaches to Clarifying the 
Conditionality in the Committee’s Forward Guidance” (by Brian Doyle, Michael Kiley, Andrew Levin, David 
Lopez-Salido, Steve Meyer, Ed Nelson, Matt Raskin, Da vid Reifschneider, and Robert Tetlow of the Federal 
Reserve Board, and Spence Hilton of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York) that was sent to the Committee on 
September 12, 2011. 
Alternatives                                                 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 9 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
The draft statements also differ in their ch aracterizations of economic conditions.  In 
describing the economy, Alternative B says that it has been expandi ng “moderately,” while 
Alternative A uses “modestly.”  Alternative C in stead describes the pace of economic activity as 
having strengthened somewhat.  Alternative B not es that some slowing in global growth is 
apparent.  In contrast, Alternative A states with a bit more assertion that “global growth appears 
to be slowing,” while Alternative C makes no mention of growth abroad.  All of the statements 
say that the unemployment rate remains elevated, but differ in describing other aspects of labor 
market conditions.  Alternatives A and B both point to some improvement in overall labor 
market conditions, while Alternative C characterizes the unemployment rate as having declined 
of late and notes that “employm ent has continued to increase.”  Alternatives A and B state that 
inflation has moderated since earlier in the year, while Alternative C says that inflation has 
moderated “only somewh at” over that period. 
Regarding the economic outlook, Alternative B indicates that the Committee expects a 
“m
oderate” pace of growth over coming quarters and sees the unemployment rate declining 
“only gradually.”  Alternative A says the Comm ittee anticipates that, absent further policy 
action, the pace of economic growth would rema in “modest” and the unemployment rate would 
decline “only very gradually.”  In contrast, Alternative C states that the FOMC anticipates “some 
strengthening” in economic growth  with a gradual decline in the unemployment rate.  Turning to 
inflation, Alternatives A and B note that it will settle “at or below” mandate-consistent levels, 
while Alternative C instead refers to inflation settling “at” mandate-consistent levels.  Alternatives A and B say that strains in global financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic ou tlook.  In addition, Alternative A includes the characterization 
that “the risks to the outlook for inflation also app ear to be tilted to the downside.”  Alternative C 
makes no mention of risks. 
The final paragraph of each statement contains options for language about the 
Committee’s future policy actions.  Alternatives A and B alter the November statement to say the 
Committee will “ monitor  the economic outlook and financial developments ” and is prepared to 
employ its tools to promote recovery.  Alternative C provides a more neutral final sentence, noting that the Committee is prepared to employ its tools as appropriate to promote its 
objectives.  
The following table highlights key elements of the differences in the policy actions 
associated with each alternative statement.  Th e table is followed by complete draft statements, 
and then by a summary of the argum ents for each alternative.   
Alternatives    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 10 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Authorized for Public Release
NOVEMBER FOMC  STATEMENT  
1. Information received sin ce the Federal Open Market Committee met in September 
indicates that economic growth strengthened so mewhat in the third qu arter, reflecting in 
part a reversal of the tempor ary factors that had weighed on growth earlier in the year.  
Nonetheless, recent indicators point to cont inuing weakness in overall labor market 
conditions, and the unemployment rate remains elevated.  Household spending has 
increased at a somewhat faster pace in recen t months.  Business investment in equipment 
and software has continued to expand, but investment in nonresidential structures is still 
weak, and the housing sector remains depresse d.  Inflation appears to have moderated 
since earlier in the year as prices of ener gy and some commodities have declined from  
their peaks.  Longer-term inflation exp ectations have remained stable.   
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee continues to expect a moderate pace of 
economic growth over coming quarters and consequently anticipates that the 
unemployment rate will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  More over, there are significan t downside risks to 
the economic outlook, including strains in globa l financial markets.  The Committee also 
anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other 
commodity price increases dissipate further.   However, the Committee will continue to 
pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflati on expectations.   
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to he lp ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, th e Committee decided today to continue its 
program to extend the average maturity of its  holdings of securities as announced in 
September.  The Committee is maintaining it s existing policies of reinvesting principal 
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in 
agency mortgage-backed securities and of  rolling over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities 
holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate.   
4. The Committee also decided to keep the target  range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely 
to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at  least through mid-2013. 
5. The Committee will continue to assess the economic outlook in light of incoming information and is prepared to employ its to ols to promote a stronge r economic recovery 
in a context of price stability.  
Alternatives    
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 12 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
DECEMBER FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE A 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September 
November indicates suggests that economic growth strengthened somewhat in the third 
quarter, reflecting in part a re versal of the temporary factors that had weighed on growth 
earlier in the year the economy has been expanding modestly, while global growth 
appears to be slowing .  Nonetheless Although recent  indicators point to continuing 
weakness some improvement  in overall labor ma rket conditions, and  the unemployment 
rate remains elevated.  Household spending ha s increased at a somewhat faster pace in 
recent months. continued to advance, but  business fixed  investment in equipment and 
software has continued to expand appears to be increasing less rapidly but investment 
in nonresidential struc tures is still weak,  and the housing sector remains depressed.  
Inflation appears to have has moderated since earlier in the year, as prices of energy and 
some commodities have d eclined from their peaks. and longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable. 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stabilit y.  The Committee continues to  expects that, absent 
further policy action,  a moderate the pace of economic growth would remain modest 
over coming quarters and conse quently anticipates that the unemployment rate will 
would  decline only very  gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be 
consistent with its dual mandate.  Moreover, there are significant downside risks to the 
economic outlook, including strains in global financial markets . the Committee also 
anticipates that inflation will would  settle, over coming quarters,  at levels at or below 
those consistent with the Committee’s dual ma ndate as the effects of past energy and 
other commodity price increases dissipate further .  Strains in global financial markets 
continue to pose significant downside risk s to the economic outlook, and the risks to 
the outlook for inflation also appear to be tilted to the downside.   However, the 
Commi ttee will continue to pay close attention to  the evolution of inflation and inflation 
expectations. 
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to he lp ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to purchase a 
further $500 billion of agency mortgage-bac ked securities by the end of December 
2012.  In addition, the Committee intends to  continue its program to extend the 
average maturity of its holdings of se curities as announced in September.  The 
Committee is also maintaining its existing policies of reinvesting principal payments 
from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency 
mortgage-backed securities and of rolling ove r maturing Treasury securities at auction.  
These programs should put downward p ressure on longer-term interest rates, 
provide support to mortgage markets, and help make broader financial conditions 
more accommodative.   The Committee will regularly review the size and composition 
of its securities holdings a nd is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate. 
OR 
Alternatives    
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 13 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
3′. To support a stronger economic recovery and to he lp ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, the Committee decided today to undertake a 
program of purchases of age ncy mortgage-backed securities .  The Committee has 
initially authorized purchases  of agency mortgage-backe d securities of $40 billion 
per month, and will adjust this program as needed to foster its objectives of 
maximum employment and stable prices .  In addition, the Committee will  continue 
its program to extend the average maturity of its holdings of secu rities as announced in 
September.  The Committee is also maintaining its existing policies of reinvesting 
principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed 
securities in agency mortgage-backed secu rities and of rolling over maturing Treasury 
securities at auction.  These programs should put downward pressure on longer-term 
interest rates, provide support to mo rtgage markets, and help make broader 
financial conditions more accommodative.   The Committee will regularly review the 
size and composition of its secur ities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as 
appropriate . 
4. The Committee also decided to keep the target  range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent.  and currently The Committee now  anticipates that economic conditions— 
including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the 
medium run—are likely to warrant this exceptionally low levels range  for the federal 
funds rate at least through mid -2013 the end of 2014 .  Specifically, given its anticipated 
path for monetary policy, the Committee cu rrently projects that the unemployment 
rate will be roughly  [ 7 ] percent and the inflation rate (as measured by the price 
index for personal consumption expenditures) will be around  [ 2 ] percent at the end 
of 2014. 
5. The Committee will continue to assess monitor the economic outlook in light of 
incoming information and financial developments  and is prepared to employ its tools to 
promote a stronger economic recovery  in a context of price stability. 
Alternatives    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 14 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
DECEMBER FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE B 
1. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September 
November indicates suggests that economic growth strength ened somewhat in the third 
quarter, reflecting in part a re versal of the temporary factors that had weighed on growth 
earlier in the year the economy has been expanding moderately, notwithstanding 
some apparent slowing in global growth .  Nonetheless While  recent  indicators point to 
continuing weakness some improvement  in overall labor ma rket conditions, and  the 
unemployment rate remains elevated.  House hold spending has increased at a somewhat 
faster pace in recent months. continued to advance, but  business fixed  investment in 
equipment and software has continued to expand appears to be increasing less rapidly 
but investment in nonresidentia l structures is still weak,  and the housing sector remains 
depressed.  Inflation appears to have has moderated since earlier in  the year, as prices of 
energy and some commodities have declined from their peaks. and longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable. 
2. Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee continues to expect a moderate pace of 
economic growth over coming quarters and consequently anticipates that the 
unemployment rate will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dua l mandate.  Moreover, there are Strains in global financial 
markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook, including 
strains in global financial markets .  The Committee also antic ipates that inflation will 
settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate as the effects of past energy a nd other commodity price increases dissipate 
further .  However, the Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of 
inflation and inflation expectations. 
3. To support a stronger economic recovery and to he lp ensure that inflation, over time, is at 
levels consistent with the dual mandate, th e Committee decided today to continue its 
program to extend the average maturity of its  holdings of securities as announced in 
September.  The Committee is maintaining it s existing policies of reinvesting principal 
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in 
agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at 
auction.  The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities 
holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate. 
4. The Committee also decided to keep the target  range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely 
to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at  least through mid-2013. 
5. The Committee will continue to assess monitor the economic outlook in light of 
incoming information and financial developments  and is prepared to employ its tools to 
promote a stronger economic recovery  in a context of price stability. 
Alternatives    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 15 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
    
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 1. 	 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September 
November indicates suggests that the pace of economic growth activity has 
strengthened somewhat in the third quarter, re flecting in part a reve rsal of the temporary 
factors that had weighed on growth earlier in the year . Nonetheless, recent indicators 
point to continuing weakness i n overall labor market conditions, and Although  the 
unemployment rate remains elevated , it has declined of late, and employment has 
continued to increase . Household spending has increased at a somewhat faster pace in 
recent months advanced further, and  business fixed  investment in equipment and 
software  has continued to expand, but investment  in nonresidential st ructures is still 
weak , and  the housing sector remains depre ssed.  Inflation appears to have has 
moderated only somewhat  since earlier in the year , despite a decline in the  as prices of 
energy and some commodities have declined from their peaks . Longer-term inflation 
expectations have remained stable. 
2. 	 Consistent with its statutory mandate , the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stabilit y.  The Committee continues to  expects  a moderate pace 
some strengthening  of economic growth over coming quarters and consequently 
anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only  gradually toward levels that the 
Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.  Moreover, there are significant 
downside risks to the economi c outlook, including strains in global financial markets. 
The Committee also anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at 
or belo w those  consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate as the effects of past 
energy and other commodity price increases dissipate further . However, the Committee 
will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation 
expectations. 
3. 	 To support a stronger the economic recovery and to while  help ing to  ensure that 
inflation, over time, is at does not exceed  levels that are  consistent with the dual 
mandate, the Committee decided today to continue its reduce by half the size of the 
program to extend the average maturity  of its holdings of securities as that it announced 
in September.  In particular, the Committee intends to limit purchases and sales of 
securities under this program to $200 billion each and to complete these operations 
by the end of March 2012.   The Committee is maintaining its existing policies of 
reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-
backed securities in agency mortgage-back ed securities and of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities at auction.  The Comm ittee will regularly review the size and 
composition of its securities holdings and is  prepared to adjust those holdings as 
appropriate. 
4. 	 The Committee also decided to keep the target  range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and currently now anticipates that economic conditions—including low rates of 
resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run—are likely 
to warrant exceptionally low levels for th e federal funds rate at least through mid -2013 
2012. 
Alternatives
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011DECEMBER FOMC STATEMENT —A LTERNATIVE C
 
Page 16 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
5. The Committee will continue to  assess the economic outlook in light of incoming 
information and is prepared to employ its tools as appropriate  to promote a stronger 
economic recovery in a c ontext of price stability its objectives of maximum 
employment and stable prices. 
Alternatives    
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 17 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE B 
The Committee may judge that the recent ec onomic data indicates that the economic 
recovery has strengthened somewhat since the summer and is likely to remain on track and so 
see no need for additional monetary policy action at this time.  If so, it may wish to issue a 
statement like that of Alterna tive B, which includes no new po licy steps and contains language 
that is—aside from updating the description of  current economic conditions—quite similar to 
that of the November statement.  The Committee may see the available information as indicating that the economy has been expanding moderately and inflation has moderated in recent months.  
It may DOVRinterpret the data as pointing to some  improvement in overall labor market conditions.  
Indeed, although the unemployment rate remains elevated, it moved down noticeably last month, albeit in part because labor force participation declined.  Household spending has continued to 
advance.  Moreover, with significant policy ea sing having been put in place in August and 
September, the Committee may see the current outlook—including a moderate pace of economic growth over coming quarters with inflation sett ling at or below mandate -consistent levels—as 
likely to be the best that can be achieved in the face of the headwinds caused by the financial 
crisis and bursting of the housing bubble.    
Though policymakers may believe that there are significant downside risks to the 
economic outlook, they m
ay see no need to take a dditional steps to addre ss those risks if they 
anticipate that other government officials will do so  in the relatively near term.  In particular, 
they may think that the European authorities will soon begin to take  significant steps to stabilize 
the situation there and also antici pate that the Congress will act to  extend the payroll tax cuts and 
unemployment insurance benefits in coming weeks, thereby avoiding a hit to economic growth 
that would otherwise materialize early next year.3    
The Commit
tee also may judge that the uncertain ty associated with its current outlook for 
the economy is unusually high, and so may wish to await additional information that could bring 
greater clarity to the near-term  direction of the U.S. economy be fore deciding whether to take 
further policy action.  Along with additional data on economic activity and inflation, the 
Committee may wish to see what actions the European authorities take to help address the 
European fiscal and financial crisis and wh at steps the Congress takes in coming weeks 
regarding payroll tax cuts a nd extended unemployment insurance benefits.  With such 
3 Indeed, should the meeting of the European Council on December 9 produce an agreement that embodies 
forceful actions to address the problems in the euro -area, the Committee could choose to remove the word 
“significant” from SDUDJUDSKRIthe statement. 
Alternatives    
                                                  
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 18 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
information in hand, the Committee may be more c onfident in adjusting its policies, such as by 
changing its investment decisions or its forward rate guidance, a nd be more certain that it could 
remain committed to those adjustments over coming quarters.  
Some policymakers may see benefits from  providing additional policy acco mmodation at 
this meeting in order to hasten progress toward  the dual mandate, but judge that the costs and 
risks associated with the opti ons available for doing so outwe igh the likely gains.  Although 
current readings of market inte rest rates suggest that an exte nsion of the Committee’s forward 
rate guidance could put downward pressure on in terest rates and so pr ovide additional support 
for the recovery, policymakers may be concerned that  stating that they expect to hold the target 
federal funds rate at its lowe r bound that far in the future—a t least through the end of 2014— 
would not be viewed as credible and thus woul d not provide meaningful additional stimulus to 
the economy.  Indeed, by announcing such guidance, the Committee might undermine 
confidence in the economic outlook and so weaken rather than strengthen  economic growth.  In 
addition, members may be skepti cal that providing explicit proj ections of unemployment and 
inflation rates in the statement w ould be all that helpful in clarif ying the conditional nature of the 
Committee’s forward rate guidance.  They might also be concerned that su ch forecasts would not 
adequately reflect the range of views on the Co mmittee.  For these reasons, policymakers may 
view other communications tools, such as the Summary of Economic Projections, as likely to be 
more effective in disseminating additional information to the pub lic about the expected future 
stance of monetary policy.   
Policymakers may also not wish to engage in additional asset purchases.  They might 
view the expected improvement in the path of th e unemployment rate as being small relative to 
their concerns about their ability  to normalize the stance of policy in a timely way when doing so 
becomes appropriate.  Moreover, they may worry that a significant further expansion of the 
Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and correspondi ng supply of reserve bala nces could lead the 
public to doubt the Committee’s ability to exit smoothly and in a timely fashion, leading to 
undesirably high expected and actua l inflation.  Given the extrao rdinarily low interest rate 
environment, they may also be concerned that holding an appreciably larg er portfolio of longer-
term securities would result in too great a downside risk to the Federal Rese rve’s net worth or net 
income if interest rates increas ed unexpectedly rapidly.     
Alternatively, policymakers may anticipate somewhat less slack in resource markets than 
does the staff, but nonetheless consider it premature to begin reducing monetary policy 
accommodation.  On the one hand, some participants may expect a relatively rapid rebound in 
Alternatives    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 19 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
economic activity, as in the “Faster Snapback” alternative simulation in Tealbook Part A.  
Nonetheless, given the current el evated level of unemployment, these participants may anticipate 
that the economy will continue to operate noti ceably below its potential for a while, and so 
choose to make no change to the stance of moneta ry policy at this meeting.  On the other hand, 
some policymakers may believe that the financia l crisis and deep recession have caused a 
significant permanent reduction in th e path of potential output.  If so, they may be concerned that 
the existing level of monetary policy accommoda tion could eventually prove excessive, with 
inflation rising to undesirable le vels.  However, with inflat ion having moderated in recent 
months, policymakers may judge that these risk s remain muted and the Committee can safely 
wait for some time before beginning to remove policy accommodation.   
Even if policymakers view economic and financial conditions as poten tially justifying an 
adjustm
ent to the stance of monetary policy, the Committee may prefer to postpone additional 
policy actions until it has provided additional info rmation about its goals and its framework for 
making policy decisions.  With work on the c onsensus monetary policy principles document 
continuing, and with the possibility that a deci sion might be reached at the January meeting, 
waiting a few weeks to act within an improved communications framework may be seen by the 
Committee as being preferable in the current environment.   
A statement such as Alternative B would be br oadly in line with market expectations.  
According to the Desk’s latest su rvey, the primary dealers continue  to anticipate that the first 
increase in the target federal funds rate will occur after mid-2013, timing that is roughly in line 
with readings of market intere st rates.  Although the dealers now see a much greater chance that 
the Committee will alter its forward rate guidance at some point over the next year in order to 
provide additional policy accommodation, their assessm ent of the odds of such a change at this 
meeting are relatively low.  The dealers pl ace even lower odds on any changes to the 
Committee’s balance sheet policies at  this meeting.  Therefore, interest rates along the maturity 
spectrum would likely be little changed if the Committee issued a st atement like Alternative B.  
Equity prices and the foreign exchange value of the dollar would likely also exhibit little 
reaction.   
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE A 
The Committee may interpret the informati on received since the November meeting, 
including the appare ntly poorer prospects for global economic  growth, as pointing to the need for 
additional policy accommodation to support the U.S. economic recovery or to address the 
Alternatives    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 20 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
downside risks to the U.S. economy, as in Alternative A.  Committee participants may now 
expect that, in the absence of  further policy action, economic growth would remain modest over 
coming quarters and the unemployment rate would d ecline only very gradua lly.  In addition, they 
may judge that strains in global financial market s pose significant downside risks to the domestic 
economic outlook.  With levels of resource slack expected to remain quite high for some time, 
policymakers may also see inflation coming in over time at levels at or below those consistent 
with the dual mandate, and might see the risks to the outlook for inflat ion as tilted to the 
downside.  Policymakers may even place so me odds on the U.S. economy entering a new 
downturn either because of domestic factors, as in the “Homegrown Recession” alternative 
simulation, or because of an intensification of the difficulties in Europe, as in the “European 
Crisis with Severe Spillovers” si mulation.  If policymakers see the economy’s trajectory as likely 
to fall short on both the maximum employment  and price stability dimensions of the 
Committee’s dual mandate, and as potentially doing so for a period that extends well into the 
medium term, they may be disposed to take acti on at this meeting.  Participants may judge that 
such action would help to shore up the public’s confidence in the Committee’s commitment to 
foster economic recovery and help guar d against deflationary pressures.   
Under such circumstances, the Committee may choose to issue a statement, like that of 
Alterna
tive A, which extends the period over wh ich the Committee anticipa tes that it will keep 
rates exceptionally low, provides additional info rmation regarding the conditionality of that 
guidance, and announces an additional asset purchase program.  Under Alternative A, the 
Committee would extend substantially the period over which it expected to maintain near-zero 
rates by replacing “at least through mid-2013,” whic h has been in the previous three FOMC 
statements, with “at least thr ough the end of 2014.”  Such an extension would be supported by 
the constrained optimal control simulations of the FRB/US model presented in the “Monetary 
Policy Strategies” section of Tealbook Part B, wh ich suggest that the Committee could leave the 
target federal funds rate unchanged through approxi mately the end of 2015 in order to foster a 
faster pace of recovery without spurring inflation to levels that are significantly above those the 
Committee views as being mandate-consistent.  Market participants currently appear to see some  
chance that the target federal funds  rate will rise by early 2014, s uggesting that there is scope for 
such a change in forward guidance to affect i nvestor expectations and put downward pressure on 
medium- and longer-term interest rates.   
Under Alternative A, policymakers would comb ine the date change described above with 
an enhancement to its forward rate guidance.  Specifically, to emphasize that the date specified 
in its forward guidance is conditional on economic  outcomes, the Committee would provide its 
Alternatives    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 21 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
current projections of unemployment and inflati on at the end of 2014.  The forecasts would be 
conditioned on the Committee’s anticipated path  for monetary policy, including the announced 
expectation that the ta rget range would be unchanged at l east through the end of 2014.  Such a 
formulation could help increase the public’s understanding of the Committee’s intentions for the 
timing and conditionality of the first increase in the target rate, thereby helping to reduce the 
chance that medium- and longer-te rm interest rates will rise too soon or too quickly if the 
recovery progresses as anticipated.  The statement could be re inforced with other forms of 
communication to provide information about the Committee’s objectives and reaction function.   
Policymakers may judge that the current ec onomic outlook and attendant downside risks 
also warrant undertaking additional asset purchases .  Specifically, with the housing sector still 
depressed, p
olicymakers may wish to purchase additional agency MBS, with the aim of reducing 
longer-term interest rates and providing support to mortgage markets.  The Committee could 
choose to execute such purchases in the form of a discrete program, as it has done in the past, by 
opting for paragraph 3 of the draft statement.  This  paragraph specifies that the Committee intends to purchase $500 billion of agency MB S by the end of December 2012.  Staff estimates 
that such a purchase program would push down the level of medium- an d longer-term private 
interest rates by roughly 10 basi s points and might ease financia l conditions enough to reduce the 
unemployment rate by about 0.2 percentage po ints at the end of 2013, accompanied by an 
increase in PCE inflation of about 0.1 pe rcentage point over the next two years.
4  These effects 
would be somewhat larger to the extent that the purchase program trimmed yields on MBS relative to those on Treasury secu rities of comparable maturit y.  The effects would also be 
increased if the public interpreted this policy st ep as indicating that the Federal Reserve would 
likely keep short-term rates lower for a longer period of time than had been expected, or if 
concerns about the downside risks to the econo mic outlook were reduced, bolstering consumer 
and business sentiment.  To the extent that the Federal Reserve’s resulting larger balance sheet 
raised concerns about its ab ility to reduce policy accommodati on sufficiently quickly when 
appropriate, this policy step could possibly be accompanied by some boost to inflation 
expectations and possibly also  to actual inflation.   
4 For a discussion of the basis of these estimates, s ee the memos “Possible Large-Scale Asset Purchase Program 
in the Treasury Market” (by Alyssa Camb ron, Michelle Ezer, Katherine Femia,  Kunal Gooriah, Winston Liu, Jeff 
Moore, Lisa Stowe, and Julie Remache of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Seth Carpenter, Sophia 
Castelo, Canlin Li, Laura Lipscomb, E lizabeth Klee, Jane Ihrig, Ari Morse, and Dan Quinn of the Federal Reserve 
Board) and “Possible FOMC Actions in the MBS Markets” (by Diana Hancock, Deborah Leonard, and Wayne 
Passmore of the Federal Reserve Board) that we re sent to the Committee on October 27, 2011. 
Alternatives    
                                                  
 
 
 
 
   
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 22 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
The Committee could instead choose to adopt paragraph 3 ′ of the draft statement, under 
which it would implement an incremental, open -ended purchase program.  Under this approach, 
the Committee would specify an initial pace of purchases of agency MBS of $40 billion per 
month without providing information about the antic ipated total quantity of such purchases.  In 
its statement, the Committee would say that it “will adjust this program as needed” to foster its 
objectives.  While the economic effects of an  open-ended purchase pr ogram are not readily 
quantifiable, by definition, such a program should generally also help to put downward pressure 
on longer-term interest rates, provide support to  mortgage markets, a nd help make broader 
financial conditions more accommodative.      
In general, large asset purchase programs of a discrete nature (as in paragraph 3) ma y be 
preferable when the Committee wants to be cl ear that it is undertaking a policy action of 
significant size.  In contrast, an incremen tal, open-ended program (as in paragraph 3′ ) might give 
the Committee scope for more nimble adjustment, either up or down, of th e overall size of the 
purchase program in light of changes in the Co mmittee’s outlook for real activity and inflation.  
Such an open-ended program also could be favor ed if the Committee were not confident of the 
size of purchase program needed to promote its obj ectives, and so wanted to communicate that it 
would “do whatever it takes” to ensu re sufficient support for the recovery.5   
 The primary dealers generally reported in the latest Desk survey that they did not expect 
significant changes to the statem
ent at this meeting, and they put the odds that the forward rate 
guidance would be changed at this meeting at only about 20 percent.  However, they now assign 
a much higher probability—about 80 percent— to a change in the FOMC’s communication 
strategy in the coming year.  Thus an announcem ent of a longer expected period of near-zero 
rates and enhanced forward guidance would not co me as a complete surprise.  The Committee’s 
announcement of additional agency MBS purchas es would surprise market participants 
somewhat more:  The dealers essentially saw no chance of such a step being taken at this 
meeting, and they put a probability of about 60 pe rcent on it being taken over the coming year.  
Longer-term interest rates would d ecline following a statement like that of Alternative A, with 
the effects of a discrete $500 b illion purchase program probably so mewhat larger, owing to its 
greater clarity.  Equity prices would likely increase, although that rise could be tempered if 
5 As noted above, a comparison of the merits of specifying a discrete versus an incremental strategy for 
expanding the balance sheet is provided in the me mo “Incremental Balance Sheet Policies” (by David 
Reifschneider, John Roberts, and Jae Si m of the Federal Reserve Board) that was sent to the Committee on October 
24, 2011. 
Alternatives    
                                                  
  
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 23 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
investors read the first two paragraphs of th e statement as pointing to significantly weaker 
underlying economic activity.  The foreign exchange value of th e dollar would likely decline.                
THE CASE  FOR ALTERNATIVE C 
Some Committee members may view the information received since the November 
meeting as suggesting that the pace of economi c activity has strengthened and so now have 
greater confidence that the economic recovery is  gaining traction.  In particular, although the 
unemployment rate remains elevated, it has declin ed of late, and employment has continued to 
increase.  In addition, household spending has advanced further, and business fixed investment is 
still expanding.  Indeed, member s may judge that the economy is  likely to follow the trajectory 
of the “Faster Snapback” alternative simulation.  Some members may also view the downside 
risks to U.S. economic growth pos ed by the situation in Europe with signifi cantly less trepidation 
than others, perhaps because they place higher odds on European authorities taking forceful 
actions to address their fiscal and banking pr oblems and to reduce the potential for spillover 
effects on global economic growth.  If so, such  members may expect medium-run outcomes for 
the U.S. economy that are akin to those described in the “Faster European  Recovery” alternative 
simulation.  
In addition, some members may place the level of potential output significantly below 
that in the staff’s baseline scenario.  If so, they may not see a need for additional policy 
accommodation to spur a reduction in resour ce slack, and may view the monetary 
accommodation already in place as more likely to foster higher inflation than stronger economic 
growth, as in the “Greater Supply-Side Da mage” simulation.  Indeed, members may be 
uncomfortable with the rise in core inflation over the past year, and ma y be worried that the 
current degree of policy accommodation, including the ongoing maturity extension program, is 
posing an unacceptably large risk to the stabili ty of inflation expectations.  Accordingly, 
members may wish to scale back the pace and ma gnitude of the maturity extension program, as 
in Alternative C.  If members ar e particularly concerned that infl ationary pressures could gather 
steam in the near term, they may wish to take an additional step to guard against that risk by 
changing the forward guidance to indicate that economic conditions are likely to warrant the 
current low range for the federal funds rate “at least through 2012” rather than “at least through 
mid-2013” as in the November statement.  Such a change in language would signal that the 
incoming information has brought the Committee si gnificantly closer to beginning the removal 
of policy accommodation.   
Alternatives    
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 24 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
  Market participants would greet a statement such as that of Alternative C with 
considerable surprise.  According to the Desk’s survey, very few of the primary dealers expect 
the Committee will adjust any of the elements of its statement in the direction of policy  
tightening over the next year.  N one expects such changes at this meeting.  In the event, market 
participants would price in a nearer-term onset of the removal of policy accommodation, as well 
as the likelihood of a faster ex it from the current accommodativ e policy stance.  As a result, 
interest rates would likely rise ac ross the yield curve.  Equity prices would likely fall, and the 
foreign exchange value of th e dollar would probably rise.  
Alternatives    
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 25 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
LONG-RUN  PROJECTIONS OF  THE BALANCE SHEET AND MONETARY BASE  
The staff has prepared three scenarios for the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet that 
correspond to the policy alternativ es A, B, and C.  The scenario for Alternative A reflects 
the $500 billion agency MBS purchase program included in paragraph 3, but is consistent 
with the open-ended purchase program in paragr aph 3’ if purchases last, and are expected 
to last, for one year.  Projections under each scenario are based on assumptions about the 
trajectory of various components of the balan ce sheet.  Details of these assumptions, as 
well as projections for each major component  of the balance sheet, can be found in 
Explanatory Note C.  
For the balance sheet scenar io that corresponds to Alte rnative B, the Committee is 
assum
ed to complete the maturity extension program (MEP) that it announced in 
September, purchasing a total of $400 billion (par value) of Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of six years or more and selling the same par amount of securities 
with remaining maturities of three years or  less by the end of June 2012.  The Committee 
also continues to reinvest principal payments  from its holdings of agency debt and MBS 
into agency MBS, while principal from matu ring Treasury securities  is reinvested at 
auction according to the Desk’s current practice (that is, reinvesting roughly 
proportionally across all Treasur y securities that are bei ng issued on the date the 
securities mature).  These policy choices would keep System Open Market Account 
Alternatives     
 
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 26 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
(SOMA) securities holdings roughly constant  at about $2.6 trillion.  All reinvestment is 
assumed to cease in April 2014, six months before  the first increase in the target federal 
funds rate in the staff economic forecast, and th en the balance sheet begins to contract.  In 
April 2015, the Committee begins to sell its remaining holdings of agency MBS and 
agency debt securities at a pace that redu ces the amount of these securities in the 
portfolio to zero in five years—that is, by March 2020.1  The combination of no 
reinvestment and the sale of agency securiti es normalize the size of the balance sheet by 
September 2017. 2,3  The balance sheet then begins to expand, with increases in SOMA 
holdings essentially matching the growth of  Federal Reserve capital and notes in 
circulation.  The balance sheet reaches a size of $2 trillion by the end of 2020. 
In the scenario for Alternative A, the Committee is assumed not only to complete 
the MEP and continue the current reinvestment  strategy but also to purchase an additional 
$500 billion of agency MBS by the end of December 2012.  In this scenario, SOMA 
securities holdings peak at $3.1 trillion in February 2014 as tota l assets near their peak of 
$3.3 trillion.  As in Alternative B, reinvest ment ends in April 2014, the target federal 
funds rate lifts off in October 2014, sales of  agency securities commence in April 2015, 
and holdings of agency securities  fall to zero over five years.4  The additional purchases 
of agency MBS under Alternative A postpone th e normalization of the size of the balance 
sheet until the February 2018, five months  later than under Alternative B.  
For the scenario that corresponds to A lternative C, the Committee continues its 
current reinvestment policy but scales back  the MEP to $200 billion and completes these 
operations by the end of March 2012.  In this scenario, the federal f unds rate lifts off at 
the beginning of 2013, about a year and a ha
lf earlier than assumed in the other 
1 Given the maturity schedule of the agency debt securities held in the SOMA, the volume of sales 
necessary to reduce holdings of these securities to zero over the five-year period is minimal. 
2 The tools to drain reserve balances (reverse repurc hase agreements and the Term Deposit Facility) are 
not modeled in any of the scenarios presented.  Use of these tools would result in a shift in the composition 
of Federal Reserve liabilities—a decline in reserve balances and a corresponding increase in term reverse repurchase agreements or term deposits—but would not produce an overall change in the size of the balance sheet. 
3 The projected timing of the normalization of the size of the balance sheet depends importantly on the 
level of reserve balances that is assumed to be nece ssary to conduct monetary policy; currently we assume 
that level of reserve balances to be $25 billion.  A hi gher demand for reserve balances would, all else equal, 
lead to an earlier normalization of the size of the balance sheet. 
4 Under Reserve Bank accounting, losses on the SOMA portfolio are only realized when securities are 
sold.  Under the current projections, losses are projected to be smaller than net earnings.  Considerable 
uncertainty surrounds these projections, however, and under plausible assumptions, losses could exceed 
earnings and as such, remittances to the Treasury woul d cease and a deferred credit asset would be booked. 
Alternatives     
 
                                                  
  
 
  
  
   
 
    
 
  
  
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 27 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
alternatives and, correspondingl y, reinvestment of principal from maturing or prepaying 
securities ends earlier, in mid-2012.5  Sales of agency securities also commence earlier, in 
mid-2013.  The size of the balance sheet is normalized in mid-2016, almost a year and a 
half sooner than under Alternative B, primarily  reflecting the earlier assumed liftoff date 
for the federal funds rate and thus the earlier  halt to reinvestment of principal and an 
earlier start of asset sales. 
The size of the balance sheet normalizes one month later under Alternative B than 
in the October Tealbook baseline, ref
lecting th e later liftoff date assumed in the staff 
economic forecast.  From February 2018 onwar d, under all scenarios, the paths for total 
assets in the current projections align with  the baseline path in the October Tealbook. 
On the liability side of the balance sheet, the forecasted path for reserve balances 
for Alternative B is a bit higher from the 
time that redemptions begin until reserve 
balances fall to $25 billion than was the case in the previous Tealbook.  Under 
Alternative A, reserve balances peak at $2.1 trillion—almost $500 billion higher than in 
Alternative B—by the end of the new large scale asset purchase program. 
In the scenario corresponding to Alternativ e B, the monetary base is projected to 
begin contracting very sligh tly in the second quarter of 2013 and to continue shrinking 
through the fourth quarter of 2017, reflecting the decline in re serve balances.  Starting in 
the first quarter of 2018, after reserve balances are assumed to have stabilized at $25 
billion, the monetary base expands again, in  line with the growth of Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation.  The mone tary base under Alternative A expands along with the rise 
in reserve balances that come  from the additional asset purchase s.  As the balance sheet is 
normalized, it follows a path similar to that in  Alternative B.  Under Alternative C, the  
contraction in the monetary base begins s ooner, mirroring the earlie r normalization in the 
balance sheet.  
5 The prepayment paths for agency MBS holdings an d the premiums calculated under Alternative C are 
based on the interest rate path used in Alternativ e B.  This simplifying assumption likely overstates 
somewhat both prepayments on MBS, which are reinve sted into new MBS with longer expected maturities 
until the reinvestment policy ceases, and premiums on all securities in Alternative C.  As a result, the size 
of the balance sheet is likely larger, and the date of normalization is likely later than would be the case if 
the interest rate path was recalibrated based on this scenario. 
Alternatives     
 
                                                  
 
  
 
  
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 28 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Jan-11 23.3 23.3 23.3 23.3 
Feb-11 57.6 57.6 57.6 57.6 
Mar-11 97.8 97.8 97.8 97.8 
Apr-11 74.4 74.4 74.4 74.4 
May-11 42.1 42.1 42.1 42.1 
Jun-11 35.9 35.9 35.9 35.9 
Jul-11 27.0 27.0 27.0 27.0 
Aug-11 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 
Sep-11 -10.6 -10.6 -10.6 -10.5 
Oct-11 -4.5 -4.5 -4.5 1.5 
Nov-11 -8.0 -8.0 -8.0 10.6 
Dec-11 12.1 11.9 11.5 0.8 
Jan-12 15.1 16.5 14.0 -8.8 
Feb-12 10.3 18.8 9.2 9.8 
Mar-12 4.4 19.8 3.4 16.6 
Apr-12 -29.5 -12.1 -31.2 3.5 
May-12 0.9 18.0 -1.4 3.3 
Jun-12 15.4 31.6 13.2 3.2 
2011 Q1 36.8 36.8 36.8 36.8 
2011 Q2 69.3 69.3 69.3 69.4 2011 Q3 21.0 21.0 21.0 21.1 
2011 Q4 -4.1 -4.1 -4.1 0.8 
2012 Q1 9.7 13.8 8.8 2.4 
2012 Q2 -5.9 10.0 -7.6 7.1 
2012 Q3 4.7 21.2 -2.2 2.0 
2012 Q4 5.4 20.7 -4.9 0.8 
2010 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 
2011 33.5 33.5 33.5 35.2 
2012 3.5 17.4 -1.5 3.1 
2013 0.5 4.7 -10.8 -0.8 
2014 -4.8 -4.5 -14.6 -6.1 
2015 -11.3 -11.9 -15.8 -12.2 2016 -19.6 -20.1 -11.7 -19.9 
Note: Not seasonally adjusted. Annual - Q4 to Q4 Monthly Growth Rates for the Monetary Base 
Date Alternative B Alternative A 
Percent, annual rate Alternative C Memo : 
October 
Tealbook 
Quarterly 
Alternatives     
 
        
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 29 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
DEBT,  BANK  CREDIT ,  AND  MONEY FORECASTS  
The staff projects that domestic nonfinancia l sector debt will grow at an annual 
rate of 4½ percent in 2012, re flecting continued rapid expa nsion in federal government 
debt and a modest rise in priv ate nonfinancial debt.  Debt gr owth is projected to slow to 
4¼ percent in 2013.  This slight moderation reflects a projected deceleration in federal 
debt.  Nonfinancial business debt expands at a modest pace over the forecast period, in 
part due to further increases in capital expenditures.  We expect growth of household debt to remain quite sluggish throughout the for ecast horizon, reaching only 1½ percent in  
2013.  Despite historically low mortgage rates, we project home mortgage debt to 
contract a bit further in the next two quart ers and then to stay  about flat through 2013, 
reflecting stringent lending standards and a l ack of demand from high-quality borrowers.  
Consumer credit grows at a moderate p ace through early next year and gradually 
accelerates over the medium term, supported by rising spending on consumer durables.   
The staff expects that commercial bank cred it will increase moderately over the 
forecast period.  Core lo 
ans—which include comm ercial and industrial (C&I), real estate, 
and consumer loans—are projected to e xpand modestly during 2012 and 2013, consistent 
with the anticipated gradual improvement s in economic activity, credit quality, and 
bank’s willingness to lend over that period.  Le nding to businesses in the form of C&I 
loans increases steadily over the next two years.   In contrast, commercial real estate loans 
contract, primarily because of high vacancy rates and depressed prices for commercial 
properties, and the poor credit quality of existing loans.  As for lending to households, 
residential real estate loans on banks’ books remain largely unchanged through 2012 and 
move up only slightly in 2013.  Meanwhile, consumer loans increase moderately 
throughout the forecast period.  Banks’ securi ties holdings expand at a moderate pace, 
driven by steady growth in core deposits comb ined with limited expansion in bank loans. 
Alternatives     
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 30 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
The staff forecasts that M2, which has expanded at a robust rate in 2011, will 
grow at a pace broadly in line with that of nominal income in 2012 as heightened 
uncertainty about European financial developments, a moderate growth outlook, and very 
low short-term market interest rates keep i nvestors from unwinding th eir current elevated 
M2 asset allocations.  Subsequently, M2 grow th slows to a pace slightly below that of  
nominal GDP as financial strains begin to fade  and investors slowly shift their portfolios 
toward riskier assets.  M2 growth in 2013 is also held down by the expiration of 
unlimited FDIC insurance on non-interest be aring demand deposits at the end of 2012.  
Currency is projected to expand at its hist orical average rate throughout the forecast 
period. 
Monthly Growth Rates Tealbook Forecast* 
Apr-11 4.3 
May-11 6.9 
Jun-11 11.6 
Jul-11 26.6 
Aug-11 30.0 
Sep-11 6.0 
Oct-11 3.7 
Nov-11 4.8 
Dec-11 5.0 
Jan-12 3.3 
Feb-12 3.3 
Mar-12 3.3 
Quarterly Growth Rates 
2011 Q2 6.0 
2011 Q3 19.9 
2011 Q4 7.5 
2012 Q1 3.8 
Annual Growth Rates 
2010 3.2 
2011 9.9 
2012 3.9 
2013 3.1 
* This forecast is consistent with nominal G DP and interest rates in the Tealbook 
forecast. Actual data through November 2011; projections thereafter. Growth Rates for M2 
(Percent, seasonally adjusted annual rate) 
Alternatives     
 
      
    
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 31 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
DIRECTIVE  
The directive that was issued in November  is given below, followed by drafts for 
a December directive that corres pond to each of the three policy alternatives.  In general, 
under the directives for Alterna tives B and C, the Desk would be instructed to leave the 
total face value of domestic securities in the SOMA about unchanged; under Alternative 
A, the Committee would instruct the Desk to increase the face value of domestic 
securities in the SOMA portfolio by purchasi ng agency MBS.  Specifically, the directive 
for Alternative A would instruct the Desk eith er to execute purchases of agency MBS in 
order to raise the tota l face value of domestic  securities holdings to about $3.1 trillion by 
the end of December 2012, or to purchase agency MBS in order to raise the face value of 
holdings of domestic securities by approxima tely $40 billion per month until instructed 
otherwise.  In addition, the dire ctives for Alternatives A and B would instruct the Desk to 
take appropriate steps to complete the $400 bi llion maturity extension program that was 
announced in September by the end of June 2012, while the directive for Alternative C 
would instruct the Desk to limit the amounts of  purchases and sales associated with the 
maturity extension program to $200 billion each  and to complete these operations by the 
end of March 2012.  All of the dr aft directives instruct the De sk to continue the current 
practice of rolling over maturing Treasury se curities at auction and of reinvesting 
principal payments on all agency debt and agency MBS in agency MBS. 
Alternatives     
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 32 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
November 2011 FOMC Directive 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the  maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 
years with a total f ace value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a total face valu e of $400 billion.  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policies of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities into new i ssues and of reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in 
agency mortgage-backed securities in order to  maintain the total face value of domestic 
securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Committee direct s the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to fac ilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s 
agency MBS transactions.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Co mmittee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability.  
Alternatives     
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 33 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
December 2011 FOMC Di rective—Alternative A 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 
years with a total f ace value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or less  with a total face value of $400 billion.  [ The 
Committee also directs the Desk to execute  purchases of agency mortgage-backed 
securities in order to increase the total face value of domestic securities held in the 
System Open Market Account to approximately $3.1 trillion by the end of 
December 2012.   | The Committee also directs th e Desk to execute purchases of 
agency mortgage-backed securities in ord er to increase the total face value of 
domestic securities held in the System Open Market Account by approximately $40 
billion per month.  ]  The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing 
policies of rolling over maturi ng Treasury securities into ne w issues and of reinvesting 
principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the 
System Open Market Account in agency mort gage-backed securities in order to maintain 
the total face value of domestic s ecurities at approximately $2.6 trillion .  The Committee 
directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll transa ctions as necessary to facilitate settlement 
of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.  The System Open Market Account 
Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments 
regarding the System’s balance sheet that co uld affect the attainment over time of the 
Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives     
 
  
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 34 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
December 2011 FOMC Di rective—Alternative B 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue the  maturity extensi on program it began in September to purchase, by the end of 
June 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 6 years to 30 
years with a total f ace value of $400 billion, and to sell Treasury securities with 
remaining maturities of 3 years or less with a total face valu e of $400 billion.  The 
Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policies of rolling over maturing 
Treasury securities into new i ssues and of reinvesting principal payments on all agency 
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in 
agency mortgage-backed securities in order to  maintain the total face value of domestic 
securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.  The Committee direct s the Desk to engage in 
dollar roll transactions as necessary to fac ilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s 
agency MBS transactions.  The System Open  Market Account Manager and the Secretary 
will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s 
balance sheet that could affect the attainme nt over time of the Co mmittee’s objectives of 
maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives     
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 35 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
December 2011 FOMC Di rective—Alternative C 
The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions 
that will foster price stability  and promote sustainable growth  in output.  To further its 
long-run objectives, the Committ ee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with 
federal funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to 
continue modify the maturity extension progr am it began in September so as to purchase, 
by the end of June March 2012, Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 
approximately 6 years to 30 years with a total face value of $400 $200 billion, and to sell 
Treasury securities with remaining maturities of  3 years or less with a total face value of 
$400 $200 billion.  The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policies 
of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and of reinvesting principal 
payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open 
Market Account in agency mortgage-backed secu rities in order to maintain the total face 
value of domestic securities at approximate ly $2.6 trillion.  The Committee directs the 
Desk to engage in dollar roll transactions as  necessary to facilitate settlement of the 
Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transactio ns.  The System Open Market Account 
Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments 
regarding the System’s balance sheet that co uld affect the attainment over time of the 
Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and price stability. 
Alternatives     
 
    
  
  
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 36 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Explanatory Notes  
A. Measures of the Equilibrium Real Rate 
The concepts of the equilibrium real rate  reported in the exhibit “Equilibrium Real 
Federal Funds Rate,” are defined as the level of the real federal funds rate th at is consistent with 
output at potential within a specified time horizon.  The short-run equilibrium rate is defined as 
the rate that would close the output gap in twelve quarters given the corresponding model’s projection of the economy.  The medium-run concept is the value of the real federal funds rate 
projected to prevail in seven years, under the assu mption that monetary policy acts to bring actual 
and potential output into line in the short run and then keeps them equal thereafter. 
Measure Description 
Single-equation 
Model The measure of the equilibrium real rate in the single-equation model is 
based on an estimated aggregate-demand relationship between the current 
value of the output gap and its lagged values as well as the lagged values of 
the real federal funds rate. 
Small 
Structural 
Model The small-scale model of the economy  consists of equations for six 
variables: the output gap, the equity premium, the federal budget surplus, 
the trend growth rate of output, the real bond yield, and the real federal 
funds rate. 
EDO Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate using EDO—an estimated dynamic-
stochastic-general-equilibrium (D SGE) model of the U.S. economy— 
depend on data for major spending cat egories, prices and wages, and the 
federal funds rate as well as the model’s structure and estimate of the output gap. 
FRB/US Model Estimates of the equilibrium real rate  using FRB/US—the staff’s large-scale 
econometric model of the U.S. economy— depend on a very broad array of 
economic factors, some of which take the form of projected values of the model’s exogenous variables. 
Tealbook-
consistent Two measures are presented based on the FRB/US and the EDO models.  
Both models are matched to the extended Tealbook forecast.  Model 
simulations determine the value of the real federal funds rate that closes the output gap conditional on the exogenous variables in the extended baseline 
forecast. 
Explanatory Notes  
 
 
 
 
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 37 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Measure Description 
TIPS-based 
Factor Model Yields on TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities) reflect investors’ 
expectations of the future path of real interest rates.  The TIPS-based 
measure of the equilibrium real rate  is constructed using the seven-year-
ahead instantaneous real forward rate derived from TIPS yields as of the Tealbook publication date.  This forw ard rate is adjusted to remove 
estimates of the term and liquidity premiums based on a three-factor, arbitrage-free term-structure model a pplied to TIPS yields, nominal yields, 
and inflation. 
The actual real federal funds rate is cons tructed as the difference between the federal 
funds rate and the trailing four-qua rter change in the core PCE pri ce index.  The federal funds rate 
is specified as the target federal funds rate on the Tealbook Book B publication date. 
Estimates of the real federal funds rate depe nd on t he proxies for expected inflation used.  
The table below shows estimates of the real federal funds rates using alternative proxies: lagged 
core PCE inflation, which is used to construct th e actual real federal funds rate shown in the table 
that displays the r* measures; lagged four-quarter headline PCE inflation; and projected four-
quarter headline PCE inflation beginning with the next quarter.  The table also displays the 
Tealbook-consistent FRB/US-based measure of the short-run equilibrium real rate and the 
average of the projected real federal funds rate  over the next twelve quarters using each of the 
different proxies for expected inflation.  
Proxy used for  
expected inflation Actual real federal 
funds rate  
(current val
ue) Tealbook-consistent 
FRB/US-based 
measure of the 
equilibrium real funds 
rate (current value) Projected real 
funds rate 
(twelve-quarter-
ahead average) 
Lagged core inflation 1.5 3.3 1.4 
Lagged headline 
inflation 2.7 3.4 1.4 
Projected headline inflation 1.2 3.2 1.2 
Explanatory Notes      
   
  
 
 
    
    
    
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 38 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
B. Analysis of Policy Paths and Confidence Intervals 
RULE SPECIFICATIONS   
For the following rules,  ݅௧ denotes the federal funds rate for quarter t, while the right-
hand-side variables include the staff’s projection of trailing four-quarter core PCE inflation ( ߨ௧), 
the forecast of inflation two and three quarters ahead ( ߨ௧ାଶ|௧ and ߨ௧ାଷ|௧), the output gap estimate 
௧ାଵݕ  and כ
௧െ  ݕ௧ݕ for the current period as well as its one quarter ahead forecast ( |௧ െ ݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ ,)and 
the forecast of three-quarter-ahead annual average GDP growth relative to potential ( Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ െ 
Δସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כ  .)The assumed value of policymakers’ long-run inflation objective is denoted π*.  The 
outcome-based and forecast-based rules were estimated using real-time data over the sample 
1988:1 2006:4; each specification was chosen using th e Bayesian information criterion.  Each 
rule incorporates a 75 basis point shift in the inte rcept, specified as a sequence of 25 basis point 
increments during the first three quarters of 1998.   The first two simple rules were proposed by 
Taylor (1993, 1999).  The prescriptions of the first-difference rule do not depend on assumptions 
regarding r* or the level of the output gap; see Orphanides (2003). 
Outcome-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.20݅௧ିଵ െ 0.39݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.19ሾ1.17 ൅ 1.73ߨ௧ 
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ2.72 െ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ3.66  ൅ ሻሿ 
Forecast-based rule ݅௧ ൌ 1.18݅௧ିଵ െ 0.38݅ ௧ିଶ ൅ 0.20ሾ0.98 ൅ 1.72ߨ௧ାଶ|௧
  ൅2.29൫ݕ ௧ାଵ|௧ െݕ௧ାଵ|௧ כ
௧ିଵ כെ ݕ௧ିଵݕሺ1.37 ൯െ ሻሿ 
Taylor (1993) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ 0.5 ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
Taylor (1999) rule ݅ ሻ כ
௧െ ݕ௧ݕሺ ൅ ሻ  כെ ߨ௧ߨሺ 0.5 ൅ ௧൅ ߨ2 ൌ ௧ 
First-difference rule ݅௧ ൌ݅௧ିଵ ൅ 0.5൫ߨ ௧ାଷ| ௧ାଷ ݕସሺ߂0.5 ൯൅  כെ ߨ௧ |௧ െ ߂ସݕ௧ାଷ|௧ כሻ 
FRB/US  MODEL SIMULATIONS  
Prescriptions from the outcome-based rule are computed using dynamic simulations of 
the FRB/US model, implemented as though the rule were followed starting at this FOMC 
meeting.  The dotted line labeled “Previous Tealbook” is based on the current specification of the policy rule, applied to the previous Tealbook projection.  Confidence intervals are based on 
stochastic simulations of the FRB/US model with shocks drawn from the estimated residuals over 
1969 2009.  
Explanatory Notes      
  
 
 
 
    
  
        
  
        
 
 
   
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 39 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
INFORMATION FROM FINANCIAL  MARKETS  
The expected funds rate path is based on quotes for federal funds and forward rate 
agreements as well as implied three-month fo rward rates from swaps, and the confidence 
intervals for this path are constructed using prices of interest rate  caps.  The computations use the 
staff’s baseline assumptions about term  premiums.  
NEAR-TERM PRESCRIPTIONS OF SIMPLE POLICY RULES  
These prescriptions are calculated using Tealbook projections for inflation and the output 
gap.  The first-difference rule, the estimated outcome-based rule, and the estimated forecast-based 
rule include the lagged policy rate as a right-hand- side variable.  When the Tealbook is published 
early in the quarter, the lines denoted “Previous  Tealbook” report rule prescriptions based on the 
previous Tealbook’s staff outlook, jumping off from the actual value of the lagged funds rate in  
the previous quarter.  When the Tealbook is publ ished late in the quarter, the lines denoted 
“Previous Tealbook Outlook” report rule prescrip tions based on the previous Tealbook’s staff 
outlook, but jumping off from th e average value for the policy rate thus far this quarter 
REFERENCES 
Taylor, John  B. (1993). “Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,” Carnegie-Rochester 
Conference Series on Public Policy , vol. 39 (December), pp. 195 214.  
————— (1999). “A Historical Analysis of Monetary Policy Rules,” in John B. 
Taylor, ed., Monetary Policy Rules.  University of Chicago Press, pp. 319 341.  
Orphanides, Athanasios (2003). “Historical Monetary  Policy Analysis and the Taylor 
Rule,” Journal of Monetary Economics , vol. 50 (July), pp. 983 1022. 
Explanatory Notes      
  
 
 
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 40 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
C. Long-Run Projections of the Ba lance Sheet and Monetary Base 
This explanatory note presents the assumptions  underlying the projections provided in the 
section titled “Long-Run Projections of the Bala nce Sheet and Monetary Base,” as well as 
projections for each major component of the balance sheet. 
GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS  
The balance sheet projections are construc ted at a monthly frequency from December 
2011 to December 2020.  The few balance sheet ite ms that are not discussed below are assumed 
to be constant over the projection period at the level observed on November 30, 2011.  The 
projections for all major asset and liability categories under each scenario are summarized in the 
tables that follow the bullet points. 
The Tealbook projections for the scenarios corresponding to Alternatives A and B 
assume that the target federal funds rate begins to increase in October 2014, consistent with the 
monetary policy path in the Tealbook extension derived from the outcome-based rule, while the projection for the scenario corresponding to Altern ative C assumes the target rate lifts off in 
January 2013.  The balance sheet projections assume  that no use of short-term draining tools is 
necessary to achieve the projected path for the federal funds rate.
1  
ASSETS  
Treasury Securities, Agency Mortgage-Backe d Securities (MBS), and Agency Debt 
Securities  
  The assumptions under Alternative B are: 
o Over the nine months beginning in October 2011 , the FOMC is assumed to 
purchase $400 billion in par value of Treasury securities with remaining 
maturities of six years or more and sell the same par amount of Treasury  
securities with remaining maturities of three years or less.  The FOMC will reinvest the proceeds from  principal pa yments on its agency securities holdings 
primarily in newly issued agency MBS in the To-Be-Announced (TBA) market.  
Treasury securities are rolled over at auc tion according to the Desk’s current 
practice (that is, reinvesting roughly  proportionally across all Treasury securities 
that are being issued on the date the securities mature).  
1 If term deposits or reverse repurchase agreements were used to drain reserves prior to raising the 
federal funds rate, the composition of liabilities woul d change: Reserve balances would fall as term 
deposits and reverse repurchase agreements rose.  Presumably, these draining tools would be wound down 
as the balance sheet returned to its steady state gr owth path, so that the pr ojected paths for Treasury 
securities presented in the Tealbook remain valid. 
Explanatory Notes      
  
                                                 
  
 
   
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 41 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
o  Principal payments from Treasury securiti es and agency MBS and agency debt 
securities are reinvested until April 2014—six months prior to the assumed 
increase in the target federal funds rate.2  
o  The Federal Reserve begi
ns to sell agen cy MBS and agency  debt securities in 
April 2015, roughly six months after the assumed date of the first increase in the target federal funds rate.  Holdings of  agency securities are reduced over five 
years and reach zero by March 2020. 
o  For agency MBS, the rate of prepayment is based on staff models using estimates 
of housing market factors from one of the program’s investment managers, long-
run average prepayment speeds of MBS, and interest rate projections from the Tealbook.
3  The projected rate of prepayment  is sensitive to these underlying 
assumptions. 
  In the scenario corresponding to Alternativ e A, the Committee is assumed to begin 
purchasing current coupon agency MBS at a ra te of about $40 billio n per month through 
December 2012 for a total $500 billion.  In addition, the Committee is expected to 
complete the MEP program and maintain its policies of reinvesting principal payments 
from its holdings of agency securities into agency MBS and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.  As in the base line, reinvestment ends in April 2014—six 
months prior to the assumed increase in th e federal funds rate—and agency securities 
sales begin in April 2015, continuing for five years.  
  In the scenario corresponding to Alternative C,  the Committee is expected to limit its 
previously announced MEP program so that it purchases $200 billion in long-term  
securities and sells $200 billion in short-term  securities, with operations completed by  
March 2012.  Principal payments from Treasury securities continue to be reinvested at auction, and principal payments from agency MBS and agency debt securities are reinvested in agency MBS until July 2012, six months prior to the assumed increase in the federal funds rate.  Sales of agency  securities begin in July 2013, and continue for 
five years. 
  Because current and expected near-term ra tes are below the average coupon rate on 
outstanding Treasury securities, the market value at which these securities are purchased will generally exceed their face value, with  a larger premium for longer-maturity  
securities.  As a result, although the par va lue of securities holdings remains constant 
under the MEP, premiums associated with th e securities, and hence total assets, will rise 
by about $30 billion.  Reserve balances will increase by the same amount.   
2 Projected prepayments of agency MBS reflec t interest rates as of December 6, 2011. 
3 Projected prepayments on the existing stock of agency MBS are from an FRBNY staff model that is 
based on the prepayment model of one of the investment managers; projected prepayments associated with 
agency MBS expected to be purchase d in the future rely on a Board model that is based on the Bond 
Market Association prepayment model. 
Explanatory Notes      
                                                  
 
     
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 42 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
  The large-scale asset purchase program in  Alternative A would put downward pressure 
on market int
erest rates, in particular mortgage rates, and result in more MBS 
prepayments than in the baseline.  The lower pa th for interest rates would also imply that 
purchases of Treasury securities would be made at prices that include a greater net 
premium relative to their face value than in the baseline. 
  The level of central bank liquidity swaps is assumed to be elevated from  December 
through February, reflecting the results of the recent 84-day foreign central bank swap 
auctions, but then return to zero in March 2012.  
  In all scenarios, a minimum level of $25 billion is set for reserve balances.  Once reserve 
balances drop to this level, the Desk first  purchases Treasury bills to maintain this level 
of reserve balances going forward.  Purchases of bills continue until such securities comprise one-third of the Federal Reserve’s total Treasury securities holdings—about the average share prior to the crisis.  Once this share is reached, the Federal Reserve buys  
coupon securities in addition to bills to main tain an approximate composition of the 
portfolio of one-third bills and two-thirds coupon securities. 
Liquidity Programs and Credit Facilities 
  Loans through the Term  Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) reached a month-
end high of $48 billion in  December 2009.  Credit extended through this facility  declines 
to zero by the end of 2015, reflecting loan maturities and prepayments. 
  The assets held by TALF LLC remain at about  $1 billion through 2014  before declining 
to zero the following year.  Assets held by TALF LLC consist of investments of 
commitment fees collected by the LLC and the U.S. Treasury’s initial funding.  In this 
projection, the LLC does not purchase any asset-backed securities received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in connec tion with a decision of a borrower to not 
repay a TALF loan.  
  The assets held by Maiden Lane LLC and Ma iden Lane III LLC decline gradually over 
time.  The assets of Maiden Lane II LLC are assumed to roll off modestly through the first increase in the federal funds rate; sales of assets in Maiden Lane II LLC’s portfolio 
are assumed to then resume, and holdings gr adually fall to zero over the following eight 
months. 
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL  
  Federal Reserve notes in circulation grow in line with the staff forecast for money stock 
currency through the last quarter of 2013.   Afterwards, Federal Reserve notes in 
circulation grow at the same rate as nominal GDP, as in the extended Tealbook projection.  
 Over the next three months, the level of reverse repurchase agreements is assumed to 
decline to $70 billion, about the average level observed over the past three years. 
Explanatory Notes      
  
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 43 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
  The U.S. Treasury’s General Account (TGA) follows the staff forecast through June 
2012
.4  Then, the TGA slowly drops back to its historical target level of $5 billion by  
January 2013 as it is assumed that the Treasu ry will implement a new cash management 
system and invest funds in excess of $5 billion.   The TGA remains constant at $5 billion 
over the remainder of the forecast period. 
  We maintain the Supplementary  Financing Acc ount (SFA) balance at its current level of 
zero throughout the forecast. 
  Federal Reserve capital grows 15 percent per year , in line with the average rate of the 
past ten years. 
  In general, increases in the level of Federa l Reserve assets are matched by  higher levels 
of reserve balances.  Increases in the levels  of liability items, such as Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation or other liabilities, or increases in the level of Reserve Bank capital, 
drain reserve balances.  When increases in these liability or capital items would otherwise cause reserve balances to fall below $25 b illion, purchases of Treasury securities are 
assumed in order to maintain th at level of reserve balances.  
  In the event that a Federal Reserve Bank’s earnings fall short of the amount necessary to cover operating costs, pay  dividends, and equa te surplus to capital paid-in, a deferred 
asset would be recorded.  This deferred asset is recorded in lieu of reducing the Reserve 
Bank’s capital and is reported on the liability  side of the balance sheet as “Interest on 
Federal Reserve notes due to U.S. Treasury.”   This liability takes on a positive value 
when weekly  cumulative earnings have not yet been distributed to the Treasury, while 
this liability takes on a negative value when earnings fall short of the expenses listed above.  In the projections, System-wide earnings are always sufficient to cover these expenses, and this line item is set to zero. 
4 The staff forecast for end-of-month U.S. Treasury operating cash balances includes forecasts of both 
the TGA and balances associated with the U.S. Tr easury’s Tax and Loan program.  Because balances 
associated with the Tax and Loan program are only $2 billion, for the time being, this forecast is used as a 
proxy for the level of TGA balances. 
Explanatory Notes      
                                                  
  
  
   
 
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 44 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
Nov 30, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,817 3,252 3,158 2,240 1,793 2,002 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 3 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 2 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 10 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 10 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 38 29 21 11 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 38 29 21 11 7 4 
Securities held outright 2,605 3,030 2,979 2,098 1,674 1,896 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,672 1,662 1,611 1,238 1,347 1,896 
Agency debt securities 106 77 39 16 2 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 827 1,291 1,330 843 324 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 161 188 157 130 112 103 
Total liabilities 2,763 3,182 3,066 2,117 1,630 1,788 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,020 1,090 1,217 1,365 1,515 1,673 
Reverse repurchase agreements 93 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,578 2,006 1,762 666 30 30 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,492 1,988 1,757 661 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 86 17 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 
to U.S. Treasury 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 54 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative A
 
Page 45 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
Nov 30, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,817 2,828 2,680 1,934 1,793 2,002 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 3 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 2 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 10 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 10 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 38 29 21 11 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 38 29 21 11 7 4 
Securities held outright 2,605 2,610 2,504 1,795 1,675 1,897 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,672 1,662 1,611 1,238 1,465 1,897 
Agency debt securities 106 77 39 16 2 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 827 871 855 540 208 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 161 185 154 128 110 101 
Total liabilities 2,763 2,758 2,587 1,811 1,630 1,788 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,020 1,090 1,217 1,365 1,515 1,673 
Reverse repurchase agreements 93 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,578 1,582 1,284 361 30 30 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,492 1,564 1,279 356 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 86 17 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 
to U.S. Treasury 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 54 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative B
 
Page 46 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
Billions of dollars 
Nov 30, 2011 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 
Total assets 2,817 2,662 2,038 1,603 1,793 2,002 
Selected assets 
Liquidity programs for financial firms 3 0 0 0 0 0 
Primary, secondary, and seasonal credit 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Central bank liquidity swaps 2 0 0 0 0 0 
Lending through other credit facilities 10 4 0 0 0 0 
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF) 10 4 0 0 0 0 
Support for specific institutions 38 29 16 11 7 4 
Credit extended to AIG 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of Maiden Lane LLC, 
Maiden Lane II LLC, and Maiden Lane III LLC 38 29 16 11 7 4 
Securities held outright 2,605 2,469 1,890 1,482 1,689 1,908 
U.S. Treasury securities 1,672 1,598 1,338 1,246 1,689 1,908 
Agency debt securities 106 77 39 16 0 0 
Agency mortgage-backed securities 827 794 513 220 0 0 
Net portfolio holdings of TALF LLC 1 1 1 0 0 0 
Total other assets 161 159 131 110 97 90 
Total liabilities 2,763 2,592 1,945 1,481 1,630 1,788 
Selected liabilities 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation 1,020 1,090 1,217 1,365 1,515 1,673 
Reverse repurchase agreements 93 70 70 70 70 70 
Deposits with Federal Reserve Banks 1,578 1,416 642 30 30 30 
Reserve balances held by depository institutions 1,492 1,398 637 25 25 25 
U.S. Treasury, General Account 86 17 5 5 5 5 
U.S. Treasury, Supplementary Financing Account 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Other balances 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Interest on Federal Reserve Notes due 
to U.S. Treasury 1 0 0 0 0 0 
Total capital 54 70 93 123 162 215
   Source: Federal Reserve H.4.1 statistical releases and staff calculations.
   Note: Components may not sum to totals due to rounding. 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011Federal Reserve Balance Sheet
 
End-of-Year Projections -- Alternative C
 
Page 47 of 48
Authorized for Public Release
(This page  is intentionally blank.) 
Explanatory Notes
Class I FOMC - Restricted Controlled (FR)
December 8, 2011
Page 48 of 48
Authorized for Public Release