The Beige Book
Summar y of Commentar y on
Current Economic Conditions b y
Federal Reser ve District
February 2025
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
Contents
About This Publication ................................................................................................... .ii
National Summar y.......................................................................................................... .1
Federal Reser ve Bank of Boston ................................................................................. .5
Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York............................................................................. .9
Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia ...................................................................... .13
Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland ........................................................................... .17
Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond .......................................................................... .21
Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta ............................................................................... .24
Federal Reser ve Bank of Chicago ............................................................................. .28
Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis ............................................................................ .31
Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis ...................................................................... .35
Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas City ....................................................................... .38
Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas ................................................................................. .42
Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco ................................................................... .46i
About This Publication
What is the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is a F ederal Reser ve System publication about cur rent economic conditions
across the 12 F ederal Reser ve Districts. It characterizes regional economic conditions and pros-
pects based on a variet y of mostl y qualitati ve infor mation, gathered directl y from each District’ s
sources. Repor ts are published eight times per year .
What is the pur pose of the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is intended to characterize the change in economic conditions since the last
repor t. Outreach for the Beige Book is one of man y ways the F ederal Reser ve System engages
with businesses and other organizations about economic de velopments in their communities.
Because this infor mation is collected from a wide range of contacts through a variet y of for mal
and infor mal methods, the Beige Book can complement other for ms of regional infor mation gath-
ering. The Beige Book is not a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.
How is the infor mation collected?
Each F ederal Reser ve Bank gather s infor mation on cur rent economic conditions in its District
through repor ts from Bank and Branch director s, plus inter views and online questionnaires com-
pleted b y businesses, communit y organizations, economists, mar ket experts, and other sources.
Contacts are not selected at random; rather , Banks stri ve to curate a di verse set of sources that
can pro vide accurate and objecti ve infor mation about a broad range of economic acti vities. The
Beige Book ser ves as a regular summar y of this infor mation for the public.
How is the infor mation used?
The infor mation from contacts supplements the data and anal ysis used b y Federal Reser ve econo -
mists and staff to assess economic conditions in the F ederal Reser ve Districts. The qualitati ve
nature of the Beige Book creates an o pportunity to characterize dynamics and identify emerging
trends in the econom y that ma y not be readil y app arent in the a vailable economic data. This infor-
Note: The F ederal Reser ve officiall y identifies Districts b y number and Reser ve Bank cit y. In the 12th District, the Seattle
Branch ser ves Alaska, and the San F rancisco Bank ser ves Haw aii. The System ser ves commonw ealths and ter ritories as
follows: the Ne w York Bank ser ves the Commonw ealth of Puer to Rico and the U.S. V irgin Islands; the San F rancisco Bank
serves American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonw ealth of the Nor thern Mariana Islands. The Board of Go vernors revised
the branch boundaries of the System in F ebruary 1996.ii
mation enables comp arison of economic conditions in different p arts of the countr y, which can be
helpful for assessing the outlook for the national econom y.
The Beige Book does not ha ve the type of infor mation I’m looking
for. What other infor mation is a vailable?
The F ederal Reser ve System conducts a wide ar ray of recur ring sur veys of businesses, house-
holds, and communit y organizations. A list of statistical releases compiled b y the F ederal Reser ve
Board is a vailable here, links to each of the F ederal Reser ve Banks are a vailable here, and a sum-
mary of the System’ s communit y outreach is a vailable here. In addition, Fed Listens  events ha ve
been held around the countr y to hear about how monetar y polic y affects peo ples’ daily lives and
livelihoods. The System also relies on a variet y of advisor y councils —whose member s are draw n
from a wide ar ray of businesses, non-profit organizations, and communit y groups—to hear di verse
perspecti ves on the econom y in car rying out its responsibilities.iii The Beige Book
National Summar y
Overall Economic Activity
Overall economic acti vity rose slightl y since mid-Januar y. Six Districts repor ted no change, four
repor ted modest or moderate growth, and t wo noted slight contractions. Consumer spending w as
lower on balance, with repor ts of solid demand for essential goods mixed with increased price
sensiti vity for discretionar y items, p articular ly among low er-income sho ppers. Unusual w eather
conditions in some regions o ver recent w eeks w eakened demand for leisure and hospitalit y ser-
vices. V ehicle sales w ere modestl y lower on balance. Manufacturing acti vity exhibited slight to
modest increases across a majorit y of Districts. Contacts in manufacturing , ranging from petro -
chemical products to office equipment, e xpressed concer ns over the potential imp act of looming
trade polic y changes. Banking acti vity was slightl y higher on balance among Districts that repor ted
on it. Residential real estate mar kets w ere mixed, and repor ts pointed to ongoing in ventor y con-
straints. Constr uction acti vity declined modestl y for both residential and nonresidential units.
Some contacts in the sector also e xpressed ner vousness around the imp act of potential tariffs on
the price of lumber and other materials. Agricultural conditions deteriorated some among repor ting
Districts. O verall e xpectations for economic acti vity over the coming months w ere slightl y
optimistic.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment nudged slightl y higher on balance, with four Districts repor ting a slight increase,
seven repor ting no change, and one repor ting a slight decline. Multiple Districts cited job growth in
health care and finance, while emplo yment declines w ere repor ted in manufacturing and infor ma-
tion technolog y. Labor a vailabilit y impro ved for man y sector s and Districts, though there w ere occa-
sional repor ts of a tight labor mar ket in targeted sector s or occup ations. Contacts in multiple Dis-
tricts said rising uncer tainty over immigration and other matter s was influencing cur rent and future
labor demand. W ages gre w at a modest-to -moderate p ace, which w as slightl y slow er than the pre-
vious repor t, with se veral Districts noting that w age pressures w ere easing .
Note: This repor t was prep ared at the F ederal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis based on infor mation collected on or before
February 24, 2025. This document summarizes comments recei ved from contacts outside the F ederal Reser ve System
and is not a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.1
Prices
Prices increased moderatel y in most Districts, but se veral Districts repor ted an uptick in the p ace
of increase relati ve to the pre vious repor ting period. Input price pressures w ere generall y greater
than sales price pressures, p articular ly in manufacturing and constr uction. Man y Districts noted
that higher prices for eg gs and other food ingredients w ere imp acting food processor s and restau-
rants. Repor ts of substantial increases in insurance and freight transpor tation costs w ere also
widespread. F irms in multiple Districts noted difficult y passing input costs on to customer s. How-
ever, contacts in most Districts e xpected potential tariffs on inputs would lead them to raise
prices, with isolated repor ts of fir ms raising prices preempti vely.
Highlights b y Federal Reser ve District
Boston
Economic acti vity increased slowl y, boosted b y a surge in home sales. Prices increased modestl y
on average, but contacts percei ved that upw ard pressure on prices could emerge in response to
tariffs. Emplo yment declined slightl y, and w ages increased modestl y. Expectations w ere mostl y
optimistic but mar ked by growing uncer tainty.
New York
Regional economic acti vity was little changed in ear ly 2025. Emplo yment gre w slightl y and w age
growth w as moderate, with labor suppl y and labor demand coming back into balance. Selling price
increases pick ed up to a moderate p ace after some slowing last period. Man y businesses noted
heightened economic uncer tainty and e xpressed concer n about tariffs.
Philadelphia
Business acti vity declined slightl y during the cur rent Beige Book period after a slight increase last
period. Emplo yment continued to grow slightl y; wages and prices gre w modestl y. Contacts noted
that changes in fiscal and trade policies pose a risk of higher inflation. Generall y, sentiment fell,
but fir ms remain o ptimistic about future growth amid economic uncer tainty.
Cleveland
District business acti vity was flat in recent w eeks, although contacts e xpected acti vity to increase
in the months ahead. Consumer spending w as dow n, and some contacts noted declining con-
sumer confidence. Emplo yment le vels remained flat. Contact repor ts sug gest that nonlabor input
costs edged up, while repor ted price increases continued to be modest.2 The Beige Book
Richmond
The regional econom y grew modestl y in recent w eeks. Consumer spending increased modestl y,
down from the moderate rate pre viousl y repor ted. Nonfinancial ser vices fir ms also repor ted
modest growth while manufacturing acti vity was unchanged. Price growth remained moderate, but
firms across sector s expressed concer ns about o verall uncer tainty in the econom y and about tar-
iffs potentiall y leading to future price increases.
Atlanta
The econom y of the Sixth District e xpanded at a modest p ace. Emplo yment w as steady . Wages,
input costs, and prices increased modestl y. Retail sales fell slightl y. Travel and tourism w ere
steady . Home sales declined some what. T ranspor tation acti vity grew modestl y. Loan growth w as
moderate. Manufacturing e xpanded slightl y. Energ y demand increased modestl y.
Chicago
Economic acti vity was little changed. Emplo yment w as up slightl y; consumer and business
spending w ere flat; nonbusiness contacts saw little change in acti vity; and constr uction and real
estate and manufacturing acti vity decreased slightl y. Prices increased modestl y; wages rose mod-
eratel y; and financial conditions w ere unchanged. F arm income in 2025 w as expected to be
similar to 2024.
St. Louis
Economic acti vity and emplo yment ha ve been flat. Prices continued to increase moderatel y but
were abo ve expectations. Contacts noted that the y were holding off in vestment due to polic y
uncer tainty and indicated that tariffs would result in higher prices. The outlook has declined from
slightl y optimistic in our pre vious repor t to neutral.
Minneapolis
Economic acti vity was steady . Emplo yment gre w but labor demand and hiring softened. W age and
price increases w ere moderate. Consumer spending w as flat with impro vements in tra vel and
tourism. Manufacturing e xperienced modest impro vements. Constr uction of nonresidential units
slowed but accelerated modestl y for residential units. Commercial real estate w as mostl y
unchanged, and home sales impro ved. Agricultural conditions w ere flat.
Kansas City
Economic acti vity was unchanged on balance, but consumer spending decreased moderatel y.
Prices rose at a moderate p ace. While higher prices deter red spending , business contacts indi-
cated the y were more lik ely to scale back rather than tak e a hit on margins b y softening pricing .
Emplo yment le vels remained steady , though contacts noted a rise in labor force chur n.National Summar y 3
Dallas
The Ele venth District econom y continued to e xpand moderatel y. Nonfinancial ser vices acti vity grew
while retail sales w ere flat, and manufacturing acti vity was rather volatile. Lending pick ed up
notabl y and commercial real estate acti vity impro ved, though housing demand w as tepid. Emplo y-
ment held steady , and little change w as seen in w age and price growth. Contacts noted shar ply
higher uncer tainty around the outlook.
San F rancisco
Economic acti vity ticked dow n. Emplo yment le vels w ere stable. Price le vels and w ages gre w
slightl y. Retail sales fell modestl y and demand for ser vices w eakened a bit. Manufacturing acti vity
impro ved some what, while conditions in agriculture and residential real estate softened. Commer-
cial real estate and lending acti vity were steady .4 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Boston
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity was mixed yet increased slowl y on balance. Home sales surged as buyer s
repor tedly stopped w aiting for interest rates to decline, but commercial real estate acti vity was
flat. Retailer s experienced modestl y impro ved sales, while restaurants str uggled under sag ging
demand and rising wholesale food prices. Manufacturing sales increased modestl y, while staffing
services demand gre w slightl y. Prices increased moderatel y on a verage as wholesale food prices
spiked, and contacts e xpressed concer ns that tariffs would contribute to more intense pricing
pressures mo ving forw ard. Emplo yment decreased slightl y, and w ages increased modestl y on
average. Emplo yers repor tedly became more selecti ve in hiring , just as the number of job appli-
cants increased. At the same time, wor kers became less lik ely to change jobs. The outlook w as
slightl y optimistic on balance but w as mar ked by a high degree of uncer tainty. Some contacts per-
ceived risks of rising inflation and slowing labor demand, while other s saw upside potential for
residential and commercial real estate acti vity.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as dow n slightl y overall, and w age increases w ere modest. The slight decline in
emplo yment reflected moderate la yoffs of cor porate staff b y one retailer , as headcounts w ere other-
wise stable. W age increases ranged from slight to moderate, depending on the sector and occup a-
tion. Manufacturer s offered mixed w age increases, including one who held back on raising w ages
because of macroeconomic uncer tainty and another who enacted an abo ve-average w age increase
to catch up to mar ket rates. Restaurant contacts noted a decrease in w age pressure as labor
suppl y impro ved. According to staffing ser vices contacts, emplo yers became more selecti ve in
their hiring—for e xample, b y inter viewing more candidates and/ or adding dr ug screenings and
background checks—and ho ped that such measures would boost emplo yee retention and reduce
turnover going forw ard. Labor suppl y increased moderatel y for light industrial, skilled manufac-
turing , engineering , administrati ve ser vices, and accounting roles. Existing emplo yees repor tedly
sought to a void changing jobs because of percei ved economic uncer tainty, and among jobseek ers,
the abilit y to wor k remotel y was an especiall y prized job attribute. The labor mar ket outlook w as
mixed, as some contacts e xpected hiring to hold steady or impro ve mo ving forw ard, and a staffing
contact said that cer tain clients w ere planning to announce la yoffs later this year .
5
Prices
Prices increased moderatel y on a verage despite isolated cost pressures. Wholesale food prices to
restaurants w ere up near ly eight percent from one year ago, dri ven in p art by large increases in
the price of eg gs that w ere tempered b y slight declines in fresh produce prices. How ever, restau-
rants posted onl y modest increases in menu prices in recent months and said that profit margins
narrowed as a result. Manufacturer s’ output prices increased modestl y on a verage, although one
firm enacted a sizable price increase for 2025 that e xceeded its long-r un target for price growth.
Staffing fir ms’ bill and p ay rates w ere stable, but their insurance costs increased significantl y.
Aside from wholesale food prices and insurance rates, input price growth w as described as slight,
but contacts w ere concer ned about emerging cost pressures related to actual and potential
increases in tariffs. As a result, contacts said that the chances the y would ha ve to raise their
prices in 2025 had increased recentl y. Nonetheless, one retailer planned to hold its prices steady
at least through the fall.
Retail and T ourism
Retail sales impro ved modestl y while restaurant sales fell shar ply, leaving consumer spending
roughl y flat. F ollowing a ver y slow fall season, a clothing retailer e xperienced a strong holida y
season and an e ven stronger Januar y, attributing the impro vements in p art to promotions that
brought out price-sensiti ve consumer s and in p art to at ypical w eather p atterns that boosted
demand for cold-w eather gear nationwide. A discount retailer repor ted slightl y higher re venues
from the pre vious quar ter, but sales w ere nonetheless flat from one year ago. A Massachusetts
restaurant industr y contact said that sales in Januar y 2025 w ere the w eakest in year s for an y
single month, e ven accounting for p ast seasonal p atterns. Factors cited for w eak demand included
higher menu prices, poor w eekend w eather , and increasing po pularit y of “Dr y Januar y.” Strong res-
ervations acti vity in advance of V alentine’ s Day sug gested that at least some of the w eakness in
restaurant demand would pro ve temporar y, but on balance, the restaurant outlook became less
optimistic. Retailer s, on the other hand, w ere cautiousl y optimistic, despite signs of nascent w eak-
ness in demand from Canadian consumer s.
Manufacturing and Related Ser vices
Manufacturing sales gre w modestl y from the pre vious quar ter, with results e xceeding e xpectations
for most fir ms. F irms repor ted modest declines in in ventories consistent with plans. Capital
expenditures sta yed in line with targeted le vels for all fir ms. F irms expected modest growth in the
coming months on a verage. Nonetheless, the outlook w as mar ked by a high degree of uncer tainty
related to the potential imp act of tariffs on their ow n input and output prices.6 The Beige Book
Staffing Ser vices
Demand for staffing ser vices increased slightl y among contacts in the F irst District, with greater
emphasis on pro visional (“temporar y-to-hire”) positions and legal roles. Emplo yers repor tedly
became more selecti ve in their hiring beha vior, and jobseek ers became choosier in their job
searches. Contacts w ere generall y optimistic regarding demand for staffing ser vices in the coming
months, despite ha ving some concer ns over how tariffs and inflation might imp act their clients.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate acti vity in the F irst District w as mostl y flat. Multifamil y housing and retail
continued to e xperience solid leasing and in vestment demand, and rents in those sector s
increased modestl y. Industrial rents w ere stable at ver y high le vels amid steady leasing demand
and low vacanc y rates in that sector . The office sector continued to str uggle with mostl y tepid
demand, as vacanc y rates and rents w ere flat, although Pro vidence e xperienced an uptick in
activity. Some contacts e xpected stronger retur n-to-office policies to graduall y boost office leasing
activity in the coming months, but pro posed cuts to NIH funding threatened the District’ s life sci-
ences sector . One contact noted that larger banks w ere star ting to resume lending for select com-
mercial pro perties, which led to small reductions in bor rowing rates. At the same time, the pros-
pect of tariffs introduced considerable uncer tainty into constr uction costs, putting a damper on
lending for multifamil y developments despite strong demand for such loans. Loan maturations on
distressed office pro perties remained a concer n, as forced sales became more common. The out-
look w as slightl y pessimistic on balance but included some cautious o ptimism. The pessimism
stemmed from uncer tainty concer ning inflation and the e xpectation that interest rates would
remain ele vated for some time, while the o ptimism reflected percei ved upside risks to office
leasing and in vestment acti vity.
Residential Real Estate
According to residential real estate contacts across the F irst District, home sales increased
sharply on a year-o ver-year basis in either December 2024 or Januar y 2025 depending on the
market area. Those results represented a strengthening of acti vity since the pre vious repor t that
contacts attributed to the resolution of election-related uncer tainty and the fact that prospecti ve
homebuyer s no longer e xpected imminent declines in interest rates. Home prices continued to
rise at a brisk p ace year-o ver-year but did not accelerate. In ventories increased moderatel y on
average from a year ear lier and b y large margins in some mar kets, but contacts stressed that
inventor y levels remained low , with ver y little ne w constr uction acti vity. Contacts w ere nonethelessFederal Reser ve Bank of Boston 7
optimistic that in ventories w ere on an upw ard trajector y that would facilitate fur ther robust sales
activity for the spring season.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .bostonfed.org/in-the-
region.aspx .8 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
New York
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Second District w as little changed in ear ly 2025. Emplo yment gre w slightl y
and w age growth w as moderate, with labor suppl y and labor demand coming back into balance.
Selling price increases pick ed up to a moderate p ace after some slowing during the last repor ting
period, while input price increases remained moderate. Manufacturing acti vity edged up slightl y.
Consumer spending held steady , and tourism in Ne w York City stayed near pre-p andemic le vels.
Housing mar kets remained solid, and ne w office leases pick ed up modestl y in Ne w York City. The
broad finance sector w eakened modestl y. Man y businesses noted heightened economic uncer-
tainty and e xpressed concer n about tariffs. Looking ahead, businesses w ere notabl y less
optimistic.
Labor Mar kets
On balance, emplo yment in the region continued to grow slightl y. Businesses in leisure and hospi-
tality, personal ser vices, and healthcare and education saw modest increases in headcounts.
However, constr uction fir ms repor ted moderate reductions, and transpor tation, infor mation,
finance, and business ser vices fir ms noted more modest declines.
Demand for wor kers was steady , but emplo yers expressed some hesitanc y in hiring due to uncer-
tainty about the outlook. Though there w ere no mentions of major la yoffs in the District, there w as
some quiet dow nsizing at financial fir ms at year end leading to a slight increase in job hunter s.
Further, a Ne w York City area recr uiter noted that there ha ve been a rising number of jobseek ers
from the healthcare sector , as hospital consolidations ha ve resulted in some reductions in office
staffing . Still, demand for wor kers in financial ser vices remained solid, and some fields that w ere
quiet much of last year , such as sales and mar keting, have seen some pickup. With labor suppl y
and labor demand back into balance, it is generall y not difficult to find qualified wor kers.
Wage growth continued at a moderate p ace. Se veral contacts noted that Ne w York State’ s
minimum w age law w as a factor pushing up w ages for all their wor kers, though some businesses
repor ted holding the line on w ages to onl y cost-of-li ving increases or e ven p ay cuts in some
industries.
9
Prices
Selling price increases pick ed up to a moderate p ace after some slowing during the last repor ting
period. Manufacturing contacts noted a mar ked uptick in input price increases, while ser vice
sector fir ms repor ted that cost increases continued at about the same p ace as in the prior
repor ting period. Prices for a number of food products increased shar ply, including coffee, choco -
late, and eg gs; freight, insurance, and utilities costs also increased significantl y. Tariffs and the
impacts of shifting trade policies on prices w ere a source of significant concer n for businesses
across man y industries. A manufacturing fir m noted that either p aying tariffs or adjusting sourcing
to avoid tariffs would lead to higher selling prices. In general, fir ms expected some pickup in price
increases in the months ahead.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending held steady since the last repor t after a strong holida y sales season despite
exceptionall y harsh winter w eather across much of the District. Auto dealer s in upstate Ne w York
repor ted a modest increase in both ne w and used car sales in ear ly 2025. Still, affordabilit y
remained a concer n, and used car s have remained appealing due to the gap bet ween the price of
new and used car s. Inventor y of ne w and used vehicles remained at health y levels. Despite height-
ened uncer tainty and some concer ns about the imp act of tariffs on global suppl y chains, retailer s
and auto dealer s were optimistic about sales prospects in 2025.
Manufacturing and Distribution
Manufacturing acti vity edged up slightl y, following a small decline in acti vity last period. Ne w
order s and shipments pick ed up. Acti vity among wholesale and distribution-related fir ms w as
largel y unchanged. While suppl y availabilit y was fair ly steady , delivery times lengthened slightl y. A
shipping industr y contact indicated that despite widespread apprehension among impor ters about
the effect of tariffs and shifting trade policies, most are w aiting until the changes are established
before making an y modifications to sourcing or shipping routes. Man y contacts e xpect suppl y avail-
ability to wor sen in the months ahead. One fir m noted that interest rates are limiting in vestments,
and capital spending plans w ere generall y soft. Optimism among manufacturer s and distribution-
related fir ms dro pped noticeabl y.
Services
Activity in the ser vice sector w eakened slightl y. While business ser vices fir ms repor ted steady
activity, businesses in other ser vice industries repor ted slight to modest declines. Ser vice sector
firms anticip ated onl y modest growth in the coming months and w ere less o ptimistic than in the
last repor ting period.10 The Beige Book
Tourism acti vity in Ne w York City was solid. Despite the usual seasonal slowdow n, hotel occup ancy
rates w ere high and just below the le vels from the same time in 2019. Broad way theatres con-
tinued to ha ve high attendance. Even with the seasonal reprie ve in hotel rates, high hotel costs
cut into visitor s’ budgets, constraining spending on dining and other enter tainment.
Real Estate and Constr uction
The housing mar ket remained solid. Demand has continued to outp ace suppl y in the Ne w York City
suburbs and upstate Ne w York, limiting sales and pushing prices up. Exceptionall y low in ventor y
remains a constraint, and on Long Island in ventor y is at the low est le vel in more than t wo
decades. With in ventor y at relati vely normal le vels in Ne w York City, new signed contracts ha ve
continued to rise. How ever, price dynamics in the Cit y have been mixed, with the price of e xisting
units mo ving side ways and the price of ne w development increasing .
The rental mar ket strengthened. Rents continued to rise in Ne w York City, where bidding w ars were
common, and a large share of units w ere rented at an amount o ver the asking rent. In upstate
New York, rents remained stable at a high le vel. With mor tgage rates still relati vely high, man y pro-
specti ve buyer s have continued to rent.
Commercial real estate mar kets w ere mixed. Ne w York City’s office mar ket saw a modest uptick in
new leases, and vacanc y rates fell. F inancial ser vices fir ms accounted for the lion ’s share of ne w
office leases. Nor thern New Jersey’s industrial mar ket continued to w eaken slightl y, with a con-
tinued rise in vacanc y rates and rents declining slightl y as ne w suppl y on the mar ket has offset
rising demand. Increases in industrial demand w as dri ven in large p art by third-p arty logistics fir ms
from Asia as w ell as big box retailer s. Retail mar kets in Ne w York City wor sened slightl y, with a
small uptick in vacanc y rates amid sag ging rents.
Constr uction acti vity declined at a moderate p ace. Despite concer ns about rising materials prices,
constr uction industr y contacts remained o ptimistic about business acti vity in the coming months.
Banking and F inance
Activity in the broad finance sector w eakened modestl y. Small-to -medium-sized banks repor ted
that demand continued to decline for all loan t ypes, including business loans, consumer loans,
and commercial and residential mor tgages, as w ell as refinances. One regional bank repor ted that
rates had not dro pped as much as customer s had e xpected, dampening the demand for loans.
Most banking contacts repor ted that credit standards continued to ease, and delinquenc y rates
continued to impro ve. Deposit rates mo ved low er. Still, finance industr y contacts remained o pti-
mistic about the outlook.Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York11
Community P erspectives
Housing shor tages per sist across much of the District. Although there ha ve been some fa vorable
changes in zoning , legislation, and a vailabilit y of financing , progress in e xpanding the suppl y of
housing has been limited, as communities ha ve mounted resistance to real estate de velopment.
Still, urban neighborhoods and r ural communities alik e are finding some success in con versions
from commercial pro perties, including offices but also churches and schools in more r ural areas,
offering some increase in suppl y in some communities.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .newyorkfed.org/
regional-econom y.12 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Philadelphia
Summar y of Economic Activity
Business acti vity in the Third District declined slightl y after edging up in the prior period. Emplo y-
ment continued to grow some what, although fir ms w ere more reluctant to hire amid economic
uncer tainty. Nonauto retailer s repor ted little or no change in consumer spending on balance but
noted that low-income consumer s are trading dow n as the y continue to be burdened b y high
prices; auto sales increased slightl y. Nonmanufacturing acti vity decreased slightl y after edging up
last period. Manufacturing acti vity increased modestl y on a verage after falling slightl y in
December . Wages and prices continued to rise modestl y, albeit at slightl y lower rates. F irms noted
that changes in fiscal and trade policies pose upside risks to general inflation. F irms expect
modest economic growth o ver the ne xt six months but e xpressed more uncer tainty. Non-
manufacturer s were less o ptimistic than manufacturer s.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment continued to grow slightl y based on our Januar y and F ebruary surveys. Non-
manufacturing fir ms repor ted slight increases in full-time emplo yment on a verage, with a modest
increase for p art-time emplo yment. The emplo yment inde x for manufacturing fir ms also mo ved
higher o ver the t wo-month period. The a verage wor kweek inde x rose for manufacturing fir ms but
fell slightl y and tur ned negati ve for nonmanufacturer s. Notabl y, more than half of our respondents
have repor ted no changes in emplo yment since December .
Overall, our staffing contacts repor ted strong demand and suppl y of labor , and less trouble
retaining wor kers. How ever, two contacts noted that their clients are more reluctant to hire citing
economic uncer tainty. Other contacts repor ted increased use of ar tificial intelligence (AI) to
replace wor kers. For example, banking and hotel industr y contacts noted AI replaced fraud moni-
toring staff and food and be verage wor kers.
Wage inflation eased fur ther on balance, but fir ms continued to repor t modest increases. Across
industries, contacts repor ted less upw ard w age pressures, with w age increases in the range of
one to three percent.
13
On a quar terly basis, fir ms’ expectations of the one-year-ahead change in compensation costs per
worker fell to a trimmed mean of 3.3 percent in the fir st quar ter of 2025, dow n from 3.5 percent
in the four th quar ter (and dow n from 3.9 percent one year ago).
Prices
On balance, fir ms’ prices again rose modestl y during the period. Man y contacts stressed that the
budgets of low er-income consumer s continue to be burdened. One contact repor ted that low-
income households ha ve begun to stockpile shelf-stable items and switch from purchasing beef
and por k to chick en. Nonprofit organizations that suppor t low-income and immigrant po pulations
feared that federal funding changes will imp act existing programs.
Firms repor ted that increases in prices recei ved for their ow n goods and ser vices o ver the p ast
year fell slightl y in the fir st quar ter of 2025 comp ared with the four th quar ter of 2024. The
trimmed mean for repor ted price changes at all fir ms, as indicated b y responses to our quar terly
survey, fell to 1.4 percent from 1. 7 percent. Price increases fell to 0.8 percent among non-
manufacturer s and to 2.1 percent for manufacturer s.
Looking ahead one year , the increases that fir ms anticip ated in the prices for their ow n goods
ticked dow n after increasing in the four th quar ter of 2024. The trimmed mean for all fir ms fell to
2.6 percent in the fir st quar ter of 2025, from 2.8 percent in the pre vious quar ter. The e xpected
rate of growth fell to 2.2 percent for nonmanufacturer s and 3.1 percent for manufacturer s. How-
ever, our contacts noted that changes in fiscal and trade policies ma y push prices higher .
Manufacturing
Overall, after decreasing slightl y in December , manufacturing acti vity recorded a strong increase in
Januar y, before falling to a modest increase in F ebruary. The inde xes for ne w order s and ship -
ments follow ed a similar trend to o verall acti vity.
Manufacturer s’ expectations for growth o ver the ne xt six months increased on a verage for future
activity. How ever, the inde xes for future general acti vity, new order s, shipments, emplo yment, and
capital e xpenditures all rose in Januar y, then fell shar ply in F ebruary. Each inde x remained positi ve
near its nonrecession a verage.
Trade and Ser vices
On balance, fir ms across a broad spectr um of nonmanufacturing industries repor ted a slight
decrease in acti vity. The inde x for general acti vity weakened in Januar y and tur ned negati ve in14 The Beige Book
February. Meanwhile, the inde x for ne w order s turned slightl y positi ve, while the sales/re venues
index sug gested a slight decline.
Retailer s (nonauto) repor ted little to no change in sales during Januar y, following a slight increase
in the four th quar ter of 2024. V isits to stores remain dow n. Our contacts are not sure if this is
attributable to w eather—more snow da ys—or to rising financial constraints. One contact noted
that customer s are buying cheaper items and are using re wards more often.
Auto dealer s repor ted a slight increase in motor vehicle sales after a modest increase in
December . How ever, one contact repor ted a slowdow n in leasing contracts that the y expect to per-
sist. One contact infor med that the prices of car s with inter nal combustion engines continue to
hold, while electric vehicle (EV) prices are falling as dealer s offer incenti ves to meet their EV sales
mandate.
Tourism acti vity increased moderatel y after recording flat to slight growth last period. One contact
noted that the championship r un and subsequent p arade for the Philadelphia Eagles led to a sig-
nificant boost in hotel demand and occup ancy. Another contact noted that business tra vel con-
tinued to reco ver and is e xpected to strengthen fur ther.
The share of nonmanufacturer s expecting growth o ver the ne xt six months fell fur ther, with the
index falling below its nonrecession a verage but remaining positi ve.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Brokers repor ted a slight decline in acti vity in the housing mar ket due to fe wer acti ve buyer s and
seller s during Januar y. One contact repor ted that pending transactions and ne w listings w ere both
down 30 percent in Januar y year o ver year .
Homebuilder s also noted a slight decline. While one contact repor ted strong sales with deli very
dates scheduled throughout 2025, most contacts noted that sales and inquiries are dow n slightl y
comp ared with one month and one year ago. One contact sug gested that affordabilit y issues w ere
more common owing to high interest rates and high home prices; the contact fur ther noted that
incenti ves w ere not spur ring demand as e xpected. Another contact has low ered prices on e xisting
units and designed units with smaller square footage.
In nonresidential mar kets, leasing acti vity and transaction volumes remain suppressed in the
retail, commercial, and industrial segments. The demand for office sp ace remains w eak. One con-
tact repor ted that vacancies in the industrial real estate sector per sist, but there has been more
interest in that sector than there w as one year ago. That said, industrial rents are holding , andFederal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia 15
there are no landlord concessions. One contact in the architect and engineering sector indicated
that business is good, with a steady stream of projects planned for 2025.
Commercial real estate contacts continued to repor t a slight decrease in constr uction acti vity this
period. One contact representing general contractor s noted that 2024 w as the third consecuti ve
year of reduced hour s wor ked. Federal spending cuts could also limit projects in the shor t to
medium ter m.
Credit Conditions
The volume of bank lending (e xcluding credit cards) fell slightl y during the cur rent period (not sea-
sonall y adjusted)—much w eaker than the slight growth and modest growth obser ved during the
comp arable periods in 2024 and 2023, respecti vely.
District banks repor ted a significant decline in commercial and industrial loans and modest dro ps
in mor tgages, auto loans, and other consumer loans. Home equit y lines gre w modestl y, and com-
mercial real estate lending edged up. Credit card volumes fell significantl y as consumer s paid
down balances that had surged during the holida y season.
Banking contacts continued to repor t good asset qualit y despite a small uptick in delinquenc y
rates among residential customer s and in bankr uptcies. Our contacts also noted that fe wer credit
opportunities are being e xtended as banks tighten lending criteria and customer s request less
credit simultaneousl y. Two contacts noted that rollo ver risks e xist in commercial real estate as
maturities become due in the shor t term.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .philadelphiafed.org/
regional-econom y.16 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Cleveland
Summar y of Economic Activity
On balance, business acti vity in the F ourth District w as flat in recent w eeks, although contacts
expected acti vity to increase modestl y in the months ahead. Consumer spending w as dow n, and
some auto dealer s and consumer lender s noted declining consumer confidence related to polic y
uncer tainty and inflation. Moreo ver, demand for manufactured goods generall y softened. Commer-
cial lending acti vity increased slightl y, with some real estate in vestor s moving forw ard on ne w proj-
ects. Also, some business ser vices fir ms saw an uptick in demand dri ven b y consultation
requests amid go vernment polic y changes. Emplo yment le vels remained flat in recent w eeks, and
wage pressures w ere moderate. Nonlabor input costs edged up to a strong p ace of growth, while
repor ted price increases continued to be modest.
Labor Mar kets
Contacts repor ted that emplo yment le vels remained flat o verall in recent w eeks, a trend that has
now sp anned se veral repor ting periods. Among the fir ms that w ere holding staff le vels steady , sev-
eral contacts said that the y were reducing staff in areas of declining demand and hiring in areas of
growth such as AI, while other s were replacing under perfor ming wor kers. Some freight and manu-
facturing contacts repor ted not replacing staff who lea ve, slowing hiring , or la ying off some
workers because of slow er demand or ele vated costs. Still, man y business and financial ser vices
contacts noted that the y were hiring to meet increased demand related to merger s and acquisi-
tions, immigration legal ser vices, and data anal ytics. Contacts generall y expected emplo yment to
increase slightl y in the near ter m.
Wage pressures w ere moderate in recent w eeks, and the share of contacts repor ting increased
pay was one of the highest in the p ast 12 months. Man y firms across industries noted imple-
menting standard annual cost-of-li ving and merit raises after larger-than-nor mal increases o ver the
past fe w year s. Still, some wor kers with specialized skills continued to see stronger w age growth.
Additionall y, some fir ms offered higher star ting w ages for w arehousing , manufacturing , and con-
struction roles to attract qualified candidates and k eep p ace with competitor s.
17
Prices
Contact repor ts sug gest that nonlabor input costs edged up to a strong p ace of growth in recent
weeks after a long period of moderate growth. F irms across industries continued to note rising
costs of healthcare and other insurance. Both restaurateur s and food manufacturer s repor ted still-
higher eg g prices, and multiple contacts noted cost increases for other proteins. Contacts gener-
ally expected costs to grow at a strong p ace in the coming months, a circumstance which se veral
attributed to the imp act of e volving trade polic y.
Repor ted selling price increases remained modest on balance, and the majorit y of contacts con-
tinued to repor t keeping prices stable in recent w eeks. Among fir ms that raised prices, man y said
that the y did so on a nor mal, annual basis. How ever, a fe w contacts repor ted unplanned price
increases to offset higher compensation or materials costs. The majorit y of retailer s and restaura-
teurs repor ted holding prices steady , with one citing competiti ve pressure as a reason for resisting
price increases despite higher costs.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending declined modestl y after a period of moderate growth. Se veral food and hospi-
tality contacts attributed slug gish demand to unusuall y harsh winter w eather . An auto dealer sug-
gested that polic y uncer tainty eroded consumer confidence and decreased demand despite
increased in ventor y and manufacturer incenti ves. Meanwhile, a large retailer repor ted a continuing
divergence bet ween the w eak mid-price retail and strong luxur y retail sector s. On balance,
retailer s expected consumer spending to be flat in the coming months as affordabilit y concer ns
hamper demand.
Manufacturing
Demand for manufactured goods declined slightl y after a brief period of stabilit y, though repor ts
varied b y industr y segment. F irms selling into data center constr uction and adjacent projects,
including chip manufacturing and electricit y generation, continued to repor t strong demand. By
contrast, producer s from multiple industr y segments repor ted flat or softer order s because of
uncer tainty about trade and energ y polic y. One manufacturer of metal products noted an increase
in the number of fir ms seeking domestic sources of components nor mally impor ted from China.
On balance, manufacturer s expected demand to increase modestl y in the coming months.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential constr uction and real estate demand declined modestl y in recent w eeks. One home-
builder continued to repor t that relati vely high interest rates dissuaded some potential buyer s,18 The Beige Book
while another noted that unusuall y harsh winter w eather had put a damper on business acti vity
over the last t wo months. On balance, contacts e xpected a slight decline in demand in the coming
months. One residential builder pointed to interest rates, inflation, and tariffs as factor s keeping
prospecti ve homebuyer s out of the mar ket.
Commercial and industrial constr uction acti vity was flat in recent w eeks. On one hand, t wo
builder s were optimistic about demand because of more bidding o pportunities, and fir ms’ retur n-
to-office plans boosted demand for t wo real estate brok ers. On the other hand, some contacts
repor ted fir ms putting planned in vestments on hold until tariff policies and the direction of interest
rates become clearer . Contacts anticip ated slightl y higher demand in the coming months.
Financial Ser vices
Overall, bank ers repor ted a slight increase in loan demand in recent w eeks, with man y citing
increases in commercial lending , whereas consumer lending remained flat. One lender said that
commercial demand increased as real estate in vestor s star ted mo ving forw ard on ne w projects,
and another added that outlooks impro ved as fir ms anticip ated a more “business-friendl y” admin-
istration. Con versely, some consumer lender s said that loan demand stalled amid a decline in
consumer confidence related to continued inflation for essentials such as groceries. Looking
ahead, bank ers expected loan demand to grow moderatel y, with some citing growing commercial
pipelines, an uptick in merger s and acquisitions, and reduced rates on auto loans.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Professional and business ser vices fir ms repor ted moderate growth in recent w eeks and e xpected
a similar p ace of growth o ver the coming months. One accountant attributed increased demand to
policy changes and natural disaster s. Se veral law fir ms repor ted that demand for their ser vices
remained steady , with one noting that it w as increasingl y providing general business counseling
and cor porate finance ser vices to clients prep aring for anticip ated tariffs. By contrast, freight and
transpor tation contacts repor ted no change in growth after a period of increased acti vity, and the y
expected modest growth in the coming months.
Community Conditions
Demand for food assistance increased o ver the p ast three months, p articular ly for households
with children, according to the majorit y of food bank and p antry respondents in a recent sur vey.
Several respondents had difficult y meeting increased demand and had to limit the amount of food
provided and the frequenc y of visits per famil y. Declining in-kind donations for items such as eg gs,
meat, and produce led some respondents to purchase food to meet increased demand. Near ly allFederal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland 19
organizations e xpected demand for food assistance to rise o ver the ne xt six months because of
elevated prices and the imp act of potential funding cuts on low-income households.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .clevelandfed.org/en/
region/regional-anal ysis.20 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Richmond
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the F ifth District increased at a modest rate, on balance. Consumer spending
slowed from a moderate rate to a modest one as winter w eather adver sely affected retail sales
and leisure tra vel. Nonfinancial ser vice pro viders repor ted modest growth in demand but
expressed uncer tainties about the o verall direction of the econom y. Financial institutions saw a
modest increase in loan volumes. Manufacturing acti vity was flat, and man y firms w ere wor ried
about tariffs affecting their suppl y chains and costs. P ort and tr ucking acti vity was little changed in
recent w eeks. On net, emplo yment le vels w ere unchanged as hiring slow ed and some la yoffs w ere
repor ted. Prices gre w at a moderate year-o ver-year rate, but some fir ms expected future price
growth to increase due to tariffs on their inputs.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment in the F ifth District, on net, w as unchanged in recent w eeks. Some federal emplo yees
were laid off and some pri vate sector business said the y cut jobs in response to a reduction or
cancellation of federal funding . Several other pri vate sector fir ms repor ted slowdow ns in their
hiring . An IT recr uiting agenc y repor ted that their clients had significantl y slow ed dow n their need
for tech talent. A fur niture manufacturer w as not hiring ne w wor kers and planned to allow attrition
to right size their labor force. F inding wor kers with the right skills continued to be an issue in
some cases. F or example, a char tered bus comp any repor ted that due to increased competition
from ne w businesses in their industr y, finding wor kers had become more difficult.
Prices
Prices gre w at a moderate annual rate this c ycle. According to our most recent sur veys, prices
received b y nonmanufacturing fir ms increased at a moderate rate and manufacturing fir ms
repor ted modest price growth. A fe w contacts said that the threat of tariffs has already led to
some increased input costs, and man y more e xpressed concer ns about tariffs leading to
increased input costs and the prices the y charge customer s. Some fir ms, how ever, felt that the y
would not be able to raise their prices and would look to cut costs else where.
21
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity in the F ifth District w as flat this c ycle. Near ly all contacts repor ted
increased uncer tainty due to potential tariffs, but onl y a handful said that the y were directl y
impacted so far . For example, a machine tool producer and an office equipment manufacturer
repor ted increases in ne w order s and attributed it to customer s pulling forw ard their order s due to
being concer ned about tariffs and future prices. A rail car manufacturer repor ted an une xpected
decrease in ne w order s and w as not sure if conditions would impro ve. A fur niture manufacturer
repor ted continued w eakness across their retail di vision and signs of some softening in their com-
mercial business.
Ports and T ranspor tation
Overall cargo volumes in the F ifth District w ere relati vely flat since the last repor ting period. Winter
weather disr uptions along the East Coast caused some isolated shutdow ns and dela ys while por ts
continued to feel the imp act of temporar y shipment di versions to the W est Coast. V essel traffic
was expected to retur n graduall y with the settlement of the Inter national Longshoreman Associa-
tion labor contract. F ifth District por ts related that the y did not see a recent spik e in shipments
responding to potential US impor t tariffs, though dail y volumes ha ve trended upw ards. Despite the
slow star t, por ts described a moderatel y favorable outlook for the spring and the remaining year
with spot rates stabilizing and major capital in vestments underw ay to e xpand cap acity like double-
stack ed rail cap ability, deeper harbor s, two-way vessel traffic, and wharf e xtensions. T rucking con-
ditions w ere little changed at low le vels of volume; how ever, firms expressed “cautious o ptimism”
from their customer s and sales teams about impro vement in the freight econom y in the
coming months.
Retail, Travel, and T ourism
Consumer spending increased modestl y in recent w eeks, which w as a slowdow n from the mod-
erate rate of growth pre viousl y repor ted. Retailer s repor ted positi ve growth but noted sales and
customer traffic w ere impeded b y winter w eather and price sensiti vity of consumer s. A fast casual
restaurant said that the y were less o ptimistic about the year ahead, citing declining consumer sen-
timent, p articular ly among low er income customer s that are central to their business. T ourism and
hospitalit y contacts also repor ted a slowdow n in acti vity due to disr uptions from winter w eather . A
hotelier in South Carolina said that the adver se weather conditions led to low er occup ancy rates
comp ared to the same time last year . A Virginia hotelier added that while w eekend leisure tra vel
was low er, mid-w eek business tra vel had pick ed up and led to an increase in rooms sold across
the state.22 The Beige Book
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate conditions remained the same for most of the district. Buyer s had no
issues qualifying for loans but w ere challenged with limited in ventor y and ele vated mor tgage rates.
Agents in V irgina noted there is an added fear of job loss causing buyer s to hold off on home pur-
chases. Multiple contacts e xpressed their uncer tainty regarding tariffs and the imp act it will ha ve
on lumber and building supplies. Builder s across the district noted w eather e vents and slow regu-
latory permitting process continued to lengthen the e xpected time to complete projects. A Nor th
Carolina agent e xpressed that remote w ester n Nor th Carolina areas affected b y Hur ricane Helene
was str uggling to get homes back on the mar ket as the y struggle with insurance and rep airs.
Commercial real estate acti vity took a slight p ause as comp anies w aited to get a clearer picture
on polic y changes. A South Carolina agent stated, “uncer tainty is not good for business” while a
Maryland agent mentioned “psychographic data is beginning to complicate buyer’ s decision
making .” Two Virginia agents noted office sp ace saw a bit of an uptick as emplo yees w ere slowl y
coming back in-per son. Ne w constr uction and remodel acti vity remained limited as costs
remain high.
Banking and F inance
Financial institutions continued to repor t a modest increase in loan demand with one bank er
describing the demand as slow and steady . This demand w as still being seen within the commer-
cial real estate por tfolios with slightl y less demand in their business loan segments. With respect
to consumer lending , home equit y loan demand increased modestl y while auto and fir st mor t-
gages demand softened. One credit union repor ted that the y were seeing decreased credit qualit y
on ne w applications the y have recei ved from their member s. Deposit le vels remained stable with
competition easing as rates remain le vel in the mar ketplace.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Nonfinancial ser vice pro viders repor ted a modest increase in the demand for their ser vices, but
noted an uncer tainty whether this trend would continue throughout the year . A business consulting
firm mentioned the uncer tainty of tariffs and other changes w ere leading their clients to be more
cautious and could lea ve them with less funding for their businesses. W age rates and labor force
concer ns were still to p of mind with an engineering fir m noting that finding qualified, trained labor
was their primar y impediment to growth. Most respondents w ere holding off hiring or adding staff
until the y have more clarit y on the direction of the o verall econom y.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .richmondfed.org/
research/data_anal ysis.Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond 23
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Atlanta
Summar y of Economic Activity
The econom y of the Sixth District gre w at a modest p ace, on balance, from Januar y through mid-
February. The labor mar ket was relati vely unchanged, and fir ms continued to repor t plans to main-
tain flat headcounts. F irms repor ted modest increases in w ages, input costs, and prices. The
higher cost of li ving remained a to p concer n for communit y organizations, and low-w age job
seekers encountered challenges with job searches. Retail sales declined some what, but tra vel
activity was steady . Housing demand declined slightl y as mor tgage rates tick ed up and afford-
ability declined. Commercial real estate conditions w ere mixed. T ranspor tation acti vity grew mod-
estly. Demand for manufacturing increased slightl y. Banks saw moderate loan growth across por t-
folios. Energ y demand rose modestl y.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as little changed since the pre vious repor t. Most fir ms repor ted flat headcounts and
noted plans to k eep them relati vely stable in the coming months. Labor a vailabilit y remained much
impro ved from recent year s, as fir ms repor ted that the y are generall y able to hire and retain
workers. Man y contacts noted risks to the labor suppl y from potential changes to immigration
policy. While these concer ns were particular ly acute among fir ms that rel y hea vily on immigrant
populations for labor , other s noted concer ns about increased competition for wor kers if immigra-
tion polic y leads to a tighter labor mar ket.
Wage growth w as modest o ver the repor ting period. Man y firms characterized w age growth e xpec-
tations for this year as similar to 2024 w age increases, mostl y in the t wo to four percent range.
Businesses generall y noted positions seeing the most w age pressure tended to be entr y level.
Prices
Sixth District fir ms repor ted modest growth in nonlabor input costs and in prices o ver the repor ting
period. Cost pressures per sisted for insurance and constr uction, and some businesses noted
moderate increases in freight rates. Man y contacts repor ted difficult y setting prices and noted
ambiguit y around costs, largel y as a result of uncer tain inter national trade polic y. Most fir ms said
they expected to p ass through the bulk of an y additional costs to customer s. Some fir ms noted
24
revising contract str uctures to mitigate cost risk, such as b y eliminating guaranteed maximum
pricing . Despite slightl y increasing cost pressures, some consumer-facing fir ms repor ted the need
to be selecti ve and creati ve with price increases, as customer s were more price sensiti ve.
Community P erspectives
Concer ns about the cost of li ving remained to p of mind among communit y contacts. In p articular ,
the lack of affordable housing continued to financiall y challenge man y indi viduals. Job seek ers in
lower-wage occup ations repor ted declining confidence in the labor mar ket and a more challenging
job search e xperience. Contacts repor ted that a percei ved lack of emplo yer response to job appli-
cations also contributed to a growing sense of discouragement among some prospecti ve wor kers.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending declined slightl y since the pre vious repor t. Fur niture retailer s, in p articular ,
noted declining sales after a bump in late 2024. While some app arel retailer s repor ted slow er
sales in recent w eeks, it w as noted as p artially seasonal, and their 2025 outlook w as positi ve.
However, several contacts noted some softness in discretionar y spending , especiall y among low er-
income sho ppers. Some casual dining restaurants described customer s as being selecti ve,
looking for value, and skipping appetizer s or desser ts, and some quick ser vice restaurants and
cafes noted declines in foot traffic and transactions.
Travel and tourism acti vity was stable in recent w eeks. Man y contacts repor ted that demand
remained health y. Leisure tra vel held steady , and group tra vel and con ventions remained strong .
Hotelier s continued to see trends of last-minute leisure bookings. How ever, tourist attractions
noted declines both in the number of visitor s and in a verage spend per visitor .
Constr uction and Real Estate
Overall demand for housing in the District declined slightl y since the pre vious repor t, as mor tgage
rates mo ved higher , and housing affordabilit y diminished fur ther. Though home prices increased
modestl y, on ag gregate, moderating demand and ele vated home in ventories created less upw ard
pressure on housing prices. Suppl y shor tages per sisted in some mar kets, but e xisting home
inventor y levels rose, on net. Homebuilder s saw a modest decline in ne w home sales; some
repor ted instances of sales below initial asking price or use of incenti ves to mo ve inventor y. Con-
tacts cited mor tgage rate volatilit y as the most significant head wind to housing demand.
Commercial real estate (CRE) conditions w ere mixed, though some contacts noted impro ving senti-
ment since the pre vious repor t. Challenges remained in the office sector , and some contacts
noted a strategic pullback in office in vestments. Multifamil y was also hindered b y elevated vacan-Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta 25
cies due to an increase in suppl y, but demand accelerated some what, dri ven b y concessions. Con-
tacts noted that low er CRE pro perty values and rising o perating e xpenses eroded net o per-
ating income.
Transpor tation
Activity in the transpor tation sector gre w modestl y, on balance. Ocean car riers and southeast
ports continued to see robust container volumes. Class I railroads repor ted modest increases in
total traffic, but inter modal freight volumes w ere generall y flat. F reight volumes for shor t-line rail-
roads w ere up slightl y from year-ear lier le vels. W arehousing contacts indicated that demand for
space remained w eak, citing economic uncer tainty and an o verbuilt suppl y. Trucking fir ms noted a
decline in tr uck load volumes, which w as attributed p artially to winter w eather e vents. Citing
increased uncer tainty around trade polic y, some contacts repor ted difficulties in for mulating a full-
year forecast for 2025.
Manufacturing
District manufacturing acti vity expanded slightl y over the repor ting period. Some fir ms noted
strong demand, p articular ly producer s of chemicals, transpor tation equipment, and machiner y. A
manufacturer of p ackaging products repor ted an ongoing softening in demand, mainl y for food
packaging order s. While some contacts e xpected demand to impro ve over the ne xt 12 months,
risks to the outlook included changing policies around immigration and tariffs, along with global
unrest and w eather-related e vents.
Banking and F inance
Sixth District financial institutions saw moderate loan growth across most major lending catego -
ries. Multifamil y lending outp aced other categories. O verall asset qualit y remained stable with low
levels of nonperfor ming loans as a percentage of total loans, and consumer credit worthiness
remained solid. Both deposit balances and bor rowings b y banks increased modestl y, though loan
growth outp aced growth of deposit balances, increasing loan-to -deposit ratios.
Energ y
Oil and gas industr y contacts noted modest demand and e xpected acti vity to be on p ar with or
slightl y greater than last year . Increases w ere expected to be concentrated in liquefied natural gas
(LNG), offshore wind, and inter national oil and gas o pportunities. Contacts described rene wed
interest in LNG projects since the beginning of the year . Regional utilit y comp anies continued to26 The Beige Book
describe increasing pow er demand from e xpansion of data center s and po pulation growth in the
southeaster n U.S.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .atlantafed.org/
econom y-matter s/regional-economics .Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta 27
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Chicago
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Se venth District w as little changed on balance o ver the repor ting period,
though contacts e xpected a modest increase o ver the ne xt year . Emplo yment w as up slightl y; con-
sumer and business spending w ere flat; nonbusiness contacts saw little change in acti vity; and
constr uction and real estate and manufacturing acti vity decreased slightl y. Prices increased mod-
estly; wages rose moderatel y; and financial conditions w ere unchanged. F arm income in 2025 w as
expected to be similar to 2024.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment increased slightl y over the repor ting period and contacts e xpected growth to continue
at that p ace o ver the ne xt 12 months. The labor mar ket remained in good shape o verall, though
there w as some variation in contacts ’ assessments of the hiring en vironment and there w ere
increasing repor ts of a loosening in conditions. Se veral contacts w ere str uggling to fill positions,
including for machinists and technicians. In addition, contacts in agriculture e xpressed concer ns
about potential labor shor tages for li vestock, meatp acking , and fr uit and vegetable o perations
given effor ts to more strictl y enforce immigration laws. In contrast, there w ere man y contacts that
repor ted ha ving little trouble filling positions. One contact in retail said the y had “resumes stack ed
to the ceiling .” A staffing fir m again repor ted low er hiring b y manufacturer s, particular ly from the
auto industr y. In addition, contacts at some machiner y and food manufacturing fir ms repor ted la y-
offs, and other manufacturing contacts noted that the y were able to hire more easil y after recent
layoffs at nearb y factories. A fe w contacts w ere hesitant to hire because of uncer tainty about how
federal go vernment polic y changes could affect the econom y. Wages and benefits costs w ere up
moderatel y overall, with contacts attributing increases to annual cost-of-li ving adjustments and
health care plan rene wals.
Prices
Prices rose modestl y overall in Januar y and ear ly February and contacts e xpected a similar rate of
increase o ver the ne xt 12 months. Producer prices mo ved up slightl y. Nonlabor input costs
increased, with repor ts of higher prices for raw materials, energ y, and shipping . Contacts also
noted increased costs for insurance. Consumer prices again rose modestl y overall. One retail
28
industr y anal yst said the y expect consumer prices to reflect an y increases in tariffs on consumer
goods about three to six months after implementation.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending w as flat o ver the repor ting period, though contacts noted more w eek-to -week
volatilit y than usual. Nonauto retail sales increased slightl y. Sales w ere up for bulk items at w are-
house stores, for luxur y items, and at fitness center s. Spending on household durable goods soft-
ened, how ever, and a fur niture retailer noted low er tak e-up of promotional offerings. Leisure and
hospitalit y spending increased, led b y restaurants, though the p ace of growth slow ed some in F eb-
ruary. While light vehicle sales w ere dow n modestl y, the result w as better than e xpected gi ven
stormy and frigid w eather across the District.
Business Spending
Business spending w as flat in Januar y and ear ly February. Capital e xpenditures fell slightl y, though
expectations for spending o ver the coming year w ere up. Demand for tr uck transpor tation edged
up and freight rates increased a bit. Retail in ventories decreased slightl y from some what low
levels. Stocks of both ne w and used vehicles w ere low , in part because of strong demand at the
end of 2024. Manufacturing in ventories w ere slightl y elevated. Repor ts of materials shor tages
remained scarce, though one contact said castings from foundries w ere difficult to get.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction and real estate acti vity declined slightl y over the repor ting period. Residential con-
struction w as flat o verall, with contacts highlighting declines in the Chicagoland mar ket and a
slowdow n in growth in the Indianapolis metro area. Residential real estate contacts noted a
modest decline in sales and a slight increase in home prices. Rental occup ancy was up, and rents
continued to grow , but at a slow er pace. Nonresidential constr uction w as unchanged, though some
contacts repor ted strong interest in site studies for industrial projects. High costs for labor and
materials continued to pose challenges to builder s. In the commercial real estate sector , activity
was up, selling prices decreased slightl y, and rents and vacanc y rates rose slightl y.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing demand declined slightl y overall in Januar y and ear ly February. Steel order s were
flat, as higher sales to oil and gas customer s were offset b y lower sales to the constr uction and
automoti ve sector s. Fabricated metals demand declined slightl y, in part due to fe wer order s from
the automoti ve and agricultural industries. Machiner y sales edged dow n, with contacts also
repor ting declines in demand from the automoti ve industr y. Auto production decreased slightl y,Federal Reser ve Bank of Chicago 29
while hea vy truck production w as up slightl y. Man y manufacturing contacts said that higher tariffs
had the potential to raise costs and disr upt suppl y chains.
Banking and F inance
Financial conditions w ere little changed in Januar y and ear ly February. Bond and equit y values rose
slightl y, while volatilit y remained flat on net. Business loan demand increased modestl y, though a
banking contact noted acti vity was low er than usual for this time of year , particular ly for acquisition
financing . Business loan qualit y decreased slightl y overall, with one contact noting a deterioration
in asset qualit y for auto supplier s, who w ere facing low er sales and tighter profit margins. Busi-
ness loan rates rose modestl y and ter ms remained flat across the board. Consumer loan demand
decreased slightl y, though one contact highlighted an increase in demand for HELOC loans. Con-
sumer loan qualit y, rates, and ter ms w ere steady .
Agriculture
Farm income for District cro p producer s in 2025 w as expected to be similar to 2024, though li ve-
stock producer s could fare better . Contacts noted higher-than-nor mal uncer tainty given potential
for federal polic y shifts, especiall y regarding trade. Cor n, soybean, and wheat prices increased
during the repor ting period, leading man y farmers to sell stored cro ps at higher prices than w ere
available during har vest. Major shipping challenges that far mers confronted in late 2024 w ere
largel y resolved, though there w ere still some train dela ys to Me xico. While input costs w ere stable
for most products, prices for some fer tilizer s rose. Contacts noted an acceleration in the use of
precision far ming technologies, which can low er input costs and impro ve yields. Cattle, hog , and
cheese prices rose, while milk prices declined. Eg g prices hit record le vels as a vian influenza con-
tinued to reduce the number of la ying hens. Contacts repor ted signs of greater financial stress
among far m bor rowers as delinquencies edged up but said that most problems could be resolved
with modest loan restr ucturing . Financing for far m operations w as seen as readil y available.
Community Conditions
Communit y, nonprofit, and other nonbusiness contacts repor ted no change in economic conditions
over the repor ting period, though man y expressed ele vated uncer tainty about the economic out-
look related to recent and potential federal polic y changes. State go vernment officials said with-
holding re venues on per sonal income taxes w ere consistent with a stable labor mar ket, while
other tax re venues w ere mixed. Communit y contacts repor ted strong concer n about the imp act of
the evolving federal polic y landscape on social ser vice organizations, as most lack the cap acity to
absorb an y disr uption in funding while maintaining ser vices. Nonprofit and other communit y organi-
zations stressed that demand for housing , childcare, healthcare, food, and other necessities
remains high as families na vigate per sistentl y elevated grocer y and housing prices.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://chicagofed.org/cfsec .30 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
St. Louis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity across the Eighth District has been flat since our pre vious repor t. Emplo yment
was unchanged and contacts noted increased retention. W ages continued to increase at a mod-
erate p ace. Prices continued to increase moderatel y; how ever, price increases ha ve been slightl y
above expectations. Throughout the District, businesses repor ted that increased labor and non-
labor costs w ere negati vely imp acting their profits. Contacts across multiple industries e xpressed
uncer tainty about the imp act of polic y changes and w ere holding off on in vestment until fur ther
clarity. They also indicated that tariffs would result in higher prices. The outlook has declined from
slightl y optimistic in our pre vious repor t to neutral.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Contacts repor ted that the labor
market continued to be tight. Staffing agencies repor ted that the labor demand pipeline w as
stronger now than one year ago. Businesses repor ted fe wer job-ho ppers and increased emplo yee
retention. In Louisville, wor kers were “sticking and sta ying” according to emplo yers. Contacts w ere
concer ned about a future reduction in a vailable wor kers due to immigration policies. One constr uc-
tion contractor in Little Rock repor ted the y had already e xperienced a decline in a vailable wor kers
due to a recent depor tation, and another constr uction fir m in K entuck y repor ted a rise in emplo yee
absenteeism.
Wages continued to increase at a moderate p ace. Contacts repor ted that w age growth had stabi-
lized bet ween three percent and four percent in 2024 and w ere expecting w ages to increase at a
slightl y slow er pace in 2025. A manufacturing contact noted that w age pressure continued to be
significant. Leisure and hospitalit y contacts repor ted that the y had to increase w ages to remain
competiti ve and because of higher minimum w ages.
Prices
Prices ha ve increased moderatel y since our pre vious repor t, but increases ha ve been slightl y
above expectations. Sur vey respondents across the District repor ted that prices increased b y
about 2. 75 percent during 2024 and e xpect inflation to accelerate in 2025. The majorit y of con-
31
tacts repor ted that the y had some abilit y to increase prices charged to customer s over the ne xt
three to six months. Contacts across the District repor ted higher labor and non-labor costs. Manu-
facturer s repor ted price increases from supplier s. While this is the t ypical time of year for some
product price increases, contacts noted that tariffs and the threat of tariffs w ere leading some
supplier s, such as lumber , to adjust prices preempti vely. Constr uction contacts noted that material
costs continued to be a challenge, with some increases of 15 percent to 20 percent in the fir st
quarter of 2025. A tourism contact noted an uptick in negati ve feedback regarding price increases
and used discounts and promotions to retain business. Auto sales contacts repor ted that prices
had fallen comp ared with last quar ter and that the y expect prices to continue to fall o ver the
coming quar ter.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending has declined slightl y since our pre vious repor t. District auto dealer s repor ted
that ne w and used vehicle sales had been significantl y lower than e xpected despite low er-than-
expected prices. The y attributed this to cold w eather . Retail sales ha ve been mixed. A Little Rock
retailer repor ted continued strong demand as the y increased mar ket share, whereas a St. Louis
retailer repor ted fe wer customer s and smaller order s. A food ser vice distributor repor ted con-
sumer s were buying less, buying less often, and trading dow n. Leisure and hospitalit y sales w ere
mixed. Se veral St. Louis contacts noted that sales had fallen below e xpectations due to w eather
conditions.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity has increased slightl y relati ve to our pre vious repor t. A consumer goods
plant in K entuck y repor ted their o perations w ent from r unning 24 hour s for 5 da ys to 24 hour s for
7 days per w eek. Manufacturer s in Ar kansas noted that the industr y was flat and the mar ket was
soft despite their e xpectations that things would pick up ear ly in the year . A St. Louis manufacturer
noted that sales had fallen below e xpectations, attributing low er shipments in the fir st week of the
period to snowstor ms, and that the rebound in the remainder of the quar ter would not be enough
to catch up completel y. Contacts across the District noted price increases from supplier s and con-
cerns about tariffs fur ther increasing input costs that would negati vely imp act their competiti ve-
ness in the mar ket. A St. Louis manufacturer noted that, while the y were seeing fa vorable busi-
ness indicator s and demand, the y continued to str uggle to hire qualified emplo yees.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Activity in the nonfinancial ser vices sector has declined slightl y since our pre vious repor t. Trans-
portation and logistics contacts noted a slight decline in acti vity due to low er demand; how ever,
they expected conditions to impro ve in the second quar ter. A contact in the healthcare sector32 The Beige Book
noted that demand had been stable for the p ast three months; how ever, they expected a decline
in revenue soon due to changes in federal healthcare polic y. A dental ser vice organization repor ted
recent strong acti vity. A legal ser vices business repor ted continued high demand for their ser-
vices, whereas another business repor ted low er demand and an uptick in late p ayments and
failed/declined p ayments.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity has remained flat since our pre vious repor t. While low er seasonal
activity was expected, contacts w ere expecting slightl y stronger acti vity during these months than
what has materialized, noting that high rates w ere holding back consumer s. Expectations for the
spring w ere optimistic, with a real estate agent in St. Louis noting that the y were already seeing
residential sales pick up dramaticall y in F ebruary and that agents w ere expecting a big influx of
listings.
Commercial real estate has impro ved slightl y. Multifamil y demand remained solid; how ever, inves-
tors remain in a holding p attern due to cold w eather and polic y uncer tainty. Retail pro perty
demand has been steady , continuing its recent upw ard trajector y. Some contacts repor ted a slight
uptick in office sp ace demand as businesses who w ent exclusi vely remote begin to mak e their w ay
back into ph ysical sp ace. Constr uction has been slightl y slow er than e xpected: Constr uction
costs, higher interest rates, and insurance costs are ha ving a large imp act on underwriting .
Banking and F inance
Banking acti vity has remained steady , with some increased o ptimism across contacts due to
expected regulator y changes and net interest margin impro vement. Loan demand has remained
flat, despite higher e xpectations; ne vertheless, contacts e xpect loan demand to pick up slightl y.
Commercial lending pipelines look ed positi ve for se veral contacts, who noted o ptimism from their
clients. Bank ers noted that credit card delinquencies w ere on the rise and that p ast-dues and loan
defaults w ere expected to continue to rise throughout 2025 as customer s continue to spend more
than their ear nings and are reaching credit limits.
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Agriculture conditions ha ve deteriorated since our pre vious repor t and remain historicall y weak. A
contact in Memphis noted that the cur rent agriculture mar ket was in a wor se spot than the same
time last year , with low cash flows due to high input costs and low commodit y prices. Contacts
noted that tariffs, polic y uncer tainty, and lack of clarit y regarding F arm Bill safet y nets w ere nega-
tively imp acting the sector . Some far mers also repor ted ha ving no e xpectation of profits in the
2025 cro p year , and other s have gone out of business. Bank ers expressed concer n about thisFederal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis 33
sector , noting that the y must be cautious; man y have tightened their credit standards for agricul-
ture lending . Farmers in Nor thwest Tennessee repor ted the y would ha ve to clean far ms before
planting could tak e place this year due to major flooding in the area.34 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Minneapolis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Ninth District w as steady since the pre vious repor t. Emplo yment gre w
slightl y, but hiring and labor demand softened. Price increases and w age growth w ere moderate.
Consumer spending w as flat with slight impro vements in tra vel and tourism. Residential constr uc-
tion gre w modestl y, and nonresidential constr uction slow ed. Commercial real estate w as mostl y
flat, but sales of residential units gre w moderatel y. Manufacturing e xperienced modest impro ve-
ments and agricultural conditions w ere unchanged.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment gre w slightl y since the last repor t. Labor demand w as positi ve, but the rate of growth
continued to decline some what. Sur veys show ed more emplo yers were not hiring; those looking
for wor kers were most often hiring to fill recent tur nover. How ever, only a ver y small fraction of
firms w ere cutting wor kers. Some emplo yers were also cutting total staff hour s in the face of
slower business, rather than eliminating positions. F or those hiring , labor a vailabilit y continued to
impro ve. A Nor th Dak ota manufacturing pro vider said it w as seeing “a mar ked increase in qualified
applicants for our o pen positions. ” But a number of contacts complained of skill gaps. A Minne-
apolis constr uction fir m repor ted that it “can get unskilled labor with relati ve ease, but the y are
unreliable. . . . Skilled labor is hard to find and k eep.”
Wage growth w as moderate o verall but continued to soften some what. A number of contacts
repor ted that w age increases w ere being held back b y other cost increases. After a big w age
increase last year , a Wisconsin transpor tation fir m said it “will ha ve to k eep the status quo for
now” due to cost increases else where. A Minnesota constr uction fir m said the costs for steel and
insurance w ere keeping a lid on w age increases. “Emplo yees e xpect better p ay. I’m not sa ying the y
don’t deser ve it. Just that w e can ’t afford [it]. ”
Prices
Prices increased moderatel y, which w as a faster p ace of growth than the pre vious repor t. In a
Januar y survey of District fir ms, 30 percent said the y increased prices charged to customer s from
a month ear lier, comp ared with 60 percent who repor ted no change. A larger share repor ted
35
increases in input prices. Businesses continued to repor t significant pressures in insurance costs.
Several food production and food ser vice contacts repor ted passing on increased ingredient costs
to customer s. The wholesale prices component of a regional manufacturing inde x increased in
Januar y to its highest le vel in more than 18 months. Retail fuel prices increased modestl y since
the last repor t in most of the District e xcept for Montana, where the y increased faster .
Worker Experience
Workforce de velopment professionals in Minnesota repor ted that it w as taking longer for job
seekers to find a job comp ared with a year ago. Infor mation technolog y specialists and wor kers
with administrati ve backgrounds w ere w aiting an a verage of three months to get hired, while cer ti-
fied nur sing assistants and other health care suppor t workers waited less than a month. A health
care contact said that there w ere “roughl y the same number of o penings and amount of chur n in
the mar ket” than in recent year s. Searches for nonprofit C-suite positions that used to get around
thirty applications “recentl y ballooned into the hundreds, ” according to a District recr uiter. “Most
are extremel y qualified with decades of e xperience in go vernment or non-profit. ”
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending fell modestl y. A majorit y of sur vey respondents in accommodation, food ser-
vices, recreation, and retail repor ted that recent re venue declined ear ly in the year comp ared with
last year . They also did not e xpect impro vements in the near future. How ever, the winter tourism
sector reco vered some what from last year’ s warmer-w eather debacle. Some areas saw impro ved
snowfall, and per sistentl y cold w eather allow ed ski resor ts to manufacture necessar y snow . A
motel ow ner in Michigan ’s Upper P eninsula noted that better snow le vels this year “made for a sig-
nificant increase in business. ” Januar y hotel occup ancy rates declined slightl y; how ever, revenue
per average room w as modestl y higher . Vehicle sales w ere flat o verall at one large dealer in the
wester n por tion of the District, with ne w-vehicle sales falling slightl y for the fir st time since
September .
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction fell modestl y since the last repor t. A larger share of sur vey respondents repor ted
slower acti vity year o ver year than those who repor ted an increase. Industr y data also sug gested
that constr uction star ts in ear ly 2025 w ere slow er than last year . A Minnesota glass manufacturer
repor ted that constr uction acti vity and related order s had been soft, resulting in some la yoffs until
an expected increase in spring wor k. A Minneapolis–St. P aul constr uction fir m said it w as “not
seeing bid in vites at the rate I ha ve seen in pre vious year s.” The head of a trade group in the Dis-
trict said, “W e’re seeing a ner vousness around tariffs and [its] imp act on the industr y.” There w ere36 The Beige Book
some positi ve indicator s; data center de velopment remained acti ve and residential per mitting in
larger mar kets w as moderatel y stronger than last year .
Commercial real estate w as flat o verall. Office vacanc y rates remained ver y high in the central
business districts of Minneapolis and St. P aul. Industrial vacanc y rates ha ve tick ed slightl y higher
but remained comp aratively health y. Retail vacanc y stayed tight amid a dear th of ne w constr uc-
tion. Residential real estate w as higher ; Januar y home sales rose in t wo-thirds of regional mar kets
year o ver year .
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity in the District increased modestl y since the pre vious repor t. Near ly half of
manufacturer s responding to a monthl y business conditions sur vey repor ted an increase in order s
in Januar y from a month ear lier. An inde x of regional manufacturing conditions found acti vity
increased in Minnesota and Nor th Dak ota in Januar y relati ve to the pre vious month, while acti vity
in South Dak ota w as roughl y unchanged. How ever, metal fabrication contacts repor ted continued
below-a verage demand and difficult y with metals prices. Some contacts e xpressed concer n about
the potential effects of ne w tariffs.
Agriculture Energ y and Natural Resources
District agricultural conditions w ere steady at w eak le vels. Some contacts e xpressed concer n
about the possibilit y of widespread drought conditions per sisting into the growing season. A con-
tact repor ted that tur key producer s in the region w ere “in a good place” with respect to the imp act
of H5N1 a vian influenza due to in vestments in bio securit y. District oil and gas e xploration acti vity
was roughl y steady since the pre vious repor t. Preliminar y estimates sug gested that production at
District iron ore mines declined slightl y.
Minority- and W omen-Owned Business Enter prises
Activity among minorit y- and women-ow ned business enter prises (MWBE) impro ved but remained
lower on balance, with more contacts repor ting low er sales comp ared with those repor ting higher
sales. More than half of contacts said the y had made capital e xpenditures. Profits margins con-
tracted for the majorit y of businesses. Job o penings trended dow nward from low le vels among this
subset of businesses, but headcount remained steady . Prices for nonlabor inputs w ere low er on
balance, while changes in a verage compensation w ere higher for the majorit y.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .minneapolisfed.org/
region-and-communit y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis 37
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Kansas City
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity was unchanged on balance across the T enth District. How ever, consumer
spending decreased moderatel y across se veral spending categories. Prices rose at a moderate
rate. While higher prices deter red spending , business contacts indicated the y were more lik ely to
scale back production rather than tak e a hit on margins b y softening pricing . Near ly all business
contacts e xpected recent trade polic y shifts will push their costs higher . Contacts in residential
real estate constr uction highlighted discussions of escalation clauses during negotiations in
recent w eeks, as builder s and in vestor s sought protections from anticip ated materials cost growth
in lumber and metals, which the y attributed to changes in trade polic y. Emplo yment le vels
remained steady o verall, though contacts noted a rise in labor force chur n. Most contacts main-
tained a fa vorable outlook for hiring plans and planned capital e xpenditures but repor ts of dela ying
plans or considerations of scaling plans back w ere common in recent w eeks. The outlook among
communit y service organizations w as repor tedly much less fa vorable.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels remained steady in the T enth District, though contacts noted a rise in the real-
location of wor kers. Se veral comp anies highlighted establishment closures with job losses that
were offset b y planned hiring at other locations. Other contacts repor ted the y hired recentl y dis-
placed wor kers from other businesses or sector s. Smaller fir ms indicated relati vely more difficult y
in recr uiting or retaining wor kers as the y struggled to compete with larger fir ms on w ages and non-
wage benefits such as training programs. Most contacts across a broad set of sector s continued
to repor t positi ve expectations for emplo yment growth o ver the ne xt six months. How ever, man y
businesses indicated recentl y they dela yed their hiring plans to “w ait and see” how things de velop
going forw ard, and se veral repor ts of “scenario planning” to forgo hiring or reduce headcount
arose in recent w eeks.
Prices
The p ace of price growth rose o ver the last month, with prices rising moderatel y. Input prices for
manufacturing fir ms exhibited a notable uptick, while ser vice inputs continued growing moderatel y.
Most businesses e xpressed difficult y in p assing higher costs to their customer s, indicating poten-
tial demand destr uction as a primar y concer n. Yet, business contacts indicated the y were much
38
more lik ely to scale back rather than tak e a hit on margins b y softening pricing . Looking forw ard,
most contacts anticip ate higher business costs, with insurance e xpenses, materials costs, and
transpor tation being the categories e xpected to rise the most. The majorit y of contacts also antici-
pated higher business costs in the coming year due to recent tariff announcements. In p articular ,
contacts in agricultural manufacturing and real estate de velopers expressed concer ns over rising
metal and lumber prices.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending decreased moderatel y across most categories. The largest pullback in
spending w as repor ted among retail businesses and in the leisure and hospitalit y sector , but
spending on durable goods and at restaurants also softened. Contacts indicated consumer s
“pushed back against recent price increases, ” resulting in low er sales volumes and re venues.
Despite recent declines in spending , contacts ’ expectations about sales growth for the ne xt six
months w ere generall y positi ve, albeit less strong than repor ted in recent months.
Community Conditions
Service organizations in volved in wor kforce training , small business suppor t, and pro viding child-
care broadl y repor ted substantial amounts of uncer tainty about their long-ter m funding . Most con-
tacts sug gested the y were able to manage recent liquidit y challenges to suppor t their acti vities for
the shor t-term, ranging from a w eek to a couple months. How ever, man y organizations repor ted
they are scenario planning in the face of uncer tainty about funding , with plans ranging from signifi-
cant cuts to their ser vices and headcount to plans for closure. F or example, a childcare pro vider
associated with head star t repor ted ha ving a vailable liquidit y that will pro vide for one w eek of p ay-
roll but, without additional funds, will soon la y off staff and cease pro vision of near ly 1,000 child-
care slots.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity
Overall business acti vity across the District remained unchanged o ver the last month. Manufac-
turing acti vity continued to contract modestl y, but that contraction w as offset b y a slight rise in
professional ser vices acti vity. On a verage, contacts in manufacturing sector s anticip ated slight
headwinds for demand in the coming year from changes in trade polic y, but a small share of fir ms
expected demand to rise. In contrast to the mix of vie ws on the outlook for demand, near ly all con-
tacts e xpected recent trade polic y shifts will push their costs higher or significantl y higher . Most
business contacts repor ted a limited e xposure to go vernment contracts, but recent disr uptions in
federal funding ha ve resulted in p ayment dela ys for some District manufacturing fir ms. Capital out-
lays were slightl y below scheduled e xpenditures in recent w eeks as se veral contacts repor ted
delaying, though not de viating from, planned equipment in vestments. The outlook for capitalFederal Reser ve Bank of Kansas Cit y39
expenditures remained positi ve, yet e xpectations w ere softer than repor ted a couple of
months ago.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Development and constr uction acti vity in commercial real estate pick ed up modestl y outside of the
office segments of the sector . Completions of retail facilities and hotel upgrades and modifica-
tions also accelerated in recent w eeks. De velopers indicated the number of contractor bids for
projects rose, and contractor s repor ted subcontractor s and wor kers were more a vailable to sup -
port new wor k. Contacts in residential real estate constr uction noted escalation clauses w ere
much more commonl y part of negotiations in recent w eeks as builder s and in vestor s each sought
protections from anticip ated materials cost growth in lumber and metals, which the y attributed to
changes in trade polic y. Similar ly, lender s repor ted the y became more attenti ve to risks associated
with potential increases in materials costs during their underwriting process.
Community and Regional Banking
Loan demand w as mostl y unchanged at District banks, although se veral bank ers noted demand
for residential mor tgage loans continued to w ane. Credit standards w ere unchanged across
lending categories and loan qualit y remained relati vely stable. Respondents indicated real estate
taxes and insurance e xpenses increased significantl y over the last year . Thus far , these additional
expenses ha ve had onl y a modest imp act on o verall bor rower rep ayment cap acity. Bank ers noted
high inflation, repricing risk for loans maturing in a higher rate en vironment and imp acts from tar-
iffs as the most prominent potential dow nside risk factor s that could affect loan qualit y over the
next six months. Con versely, contacts highlighted o verall economic e xpansion and low er interest
rates as potential factor s that could impro ve loan qualit y over the same period. Deposit le vels
remained stable, while respondents noted a continued shift to cer tificate of deposit accounts.
Energ y
Tenth District oil and gas acti vity was flat o ver the last month, but sentiment remains o ptimistic.
The number of acti ve oil rigs in the District w as mostl y unchanged as oil prices remain rangebound
above contacts ’ break even price but below the price needed to substantiall y increase drilling . The
number of acti ve gas rigs tick ed dow n slightl y in recent w eeks, despite higher spot prices dri ven b y
strong natural gas demand from cold winter w eather and related pow er demand. Contacts are o pti-
mistic heading into 2025 as the y are de veloping promising ne w pla ys in Oklahoma’ s Anadar ko
Basin and Wyoming’ s Niobrara Basin. Coal production in Wyoming is up slightl y from last month
but remains below 2024 le vels despite price increases last year .40 The Beige Book
Agriculture
Conditions in the T enth District agricultural econom y impro ved slightl y but remained relati vely
weak. Cro p prices increased moderatel y in Januar y, but profit o pportunities w ere still nar row.
Strong cattle prices continued to suppor t profits among producer s, how ever, low cattle in ventories
have been a challenge for beef processor s. Contacts in se veral industries cited recent de velop-
ments related to trade polic y as a k ey concer n, noting the potential for price volatilit y and uncer-
tainty about the stabilit y of cur rent trade relationships. Those concer ns about trade polic y weighed
on repor ted sentiment o verall, but contacts noted the planned ad hoc assistance associated with
the American Relief Act will pro vide broad suppor t to the far m sector that could mitigate financial
stress for some producer s.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .KansasCit yFed.org/
research/regional-research .Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas Cit y41
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Dallas
Summar y of Economic Activity
The Ele venth District econom y continued to e xpand moderatel y over the repor ting period. Non-
financial ser vices acti vity grew while retail sales w ere flat, and manufacturing acti vity was rather
volatile. Lending pick ed up notabl y and commercial real estate acti vity impro ved slightl y, though
housing demand w as tepid. Oilfield acti vity edged up. Emplo yment held steady , and little change
was seen in w age and price growth. Contacts noted shar ply higher uncer tainty around the outlook,
with a w ait-and-see stance echoed widel y. Reduced labor suppl y as a result of stricter immigration
policy, increased costs from tariffs, and decreased go vernment spending w ere cited as head winds
for economic acti vity, while potential deregulation and cor porate tax cuts w ere seen as tailwinds.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as fair ly flat o ver the repor ting period, though there w ere scattered repor ts of hiring
for skilled positions, including in the energ y sector . A couple of manufacturer s said the y expect
forthcoming la yoffs as a p art of cost containment. A tech contact said that emplo yment in the
industr y is e xpected to grow more this year than the modest p ace e xperienced last year , driven b y
emerging technologies lik e AI.
Some contacts noted the labor mar ket has loosened, with a low number of o pen positions and
many comp anies hiring for replacement onl y or implementing a hiring freeze. How ever, chronic
worker shor tages continued for healthcare professionals. There w as concer n over labor a vailabilit y
in industries highl y reliant on immigrant labor , including constr uction, manufacturing , energ y, and
hospitalit y. Some contacts noted an increased usage of automation and AI in some instances, in
an attempt to offset labor shor tages. Other s plan to increase wor ker utilization and cross training .
Wage growth abated slightl y overall.
Prices
Prices continued to increase at a moderate p ace o ver the p ast six w eeks, though a pickup in
growth w as seen in manufacturing raw material prices and in retail selling prices. Se veral contacts
noted rising costs for insurance and rent, while low er fuel costs ha ve eased some price pressure
for transpor tation fir ms. Healthcare costs are e xpected to increase more this year than last year ,
42
according to contacts. Numerous business leader s expressed heightened concer n over inflation,
largel y stemming from e xpected p ass through of increased tariffs.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity grew notabl y in Januar y then declined in F ebruary. Recent production w eak-
ness sp anned both durable and nondurable goods. Demand w as similar ly volatile o ver the
repor ting period, with growth seen in most t ypes of durable goods while a shar p decline w as seen
in food manufacturing . Gulf Coast refineries said volumes of processed cr ude oil pushed to post-
pandemic highs as refining cap acity has e xpanded. How ever, refineries and petrochemical pro -
ducer s noted tariffs remained an outlook concer n—a sentiment echoed b y manufacturing contacts
more broadl y. Respondents said the back-and-for th tariff talk has been stressful and that the
heightened uncer tainty is highl y disr uptive.
Retail Sales
Retail sales w ere fair ly flat o ver the repor ting period. Rising growth in sales of nondurable con-
sumer products w as offset b y declines in durables lik e autos and building materials. Auto dealer s
said affordabilit y remains the primar y challenge for sales, as consumer s contend with inflationar y
pressures on vehicles in combination with lingering high interest rates. O verall retail outlooks w ere
largel y unchanged, and contacts sa y it is too soon to know the imp acts of the Administration ’s
many initiati ves. Auto dealer s in p articular voiced concer n over adver se imp acts from trade and
immigration polic y changes.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Nonfinancial ser vices acti vity continued to grow moderatel y in Januar y and F ebruary. Revenue
growth w as led b y professional and business ser vices. Staffing fir ms said demand has risen, for
direct hires as w ell as temporar y wor kers. Transpor tation ser vices fir ms repor ted increased cargo
volumes, with one contact citing shipping ahead of potential tariffs as a dri ver. Airlines repor t con-
tinued strength in demand. Growth abated in leisure and hospitalit y after e xhibiting strength in
fourth quar ter 2024. O verall, outlooks w ere fair ly stable though there w ere pock ets of increased
optimism. A transpor tation contact e xpects impor t volumes to decline this year due to tariffs.
Uncer tainty spik ed, and some contacts sa y it is imp acting their abilit y to o perate with confidence
and tak e risks.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Housing demand w as tepid during the repor ting period. Home sales w ere seasonall y slow , and
high mor tgage rates continued to negati vely imp act acti vity. Incenti ves on ne w homes remainedFederal Reser ve Bank of Dallas 43
widespread, e xceeding nor mal le vels. Contacts said the high cost of incenti ves, p articular ly mor t-
gage buydow ns, w ere squeezing margins. Outlooks w ere w eak, w eighed dow n by elevated mor t-
gage rates and concer ns regarding the potential adver se imp act of immigration and trade polic y
changes on labor suppl y and constr uction costs.
Commercial real estate acti vity impro ved slightl y. Apartment demand w as stable, but rents w ere
flat to dow n and the constr uction pipeline is e xpected to recede this year . Office absor ption pick ed
up in some mar kets though vacanc y rates remained ele vated. Industrial demand w as solid but has
moderated from its recent highs.
Financial Ser vices
Loan volume continued increasing at a rapid p ace in F ebruary while loan demand accelerated fur-
ther. Credit tightening continued, while loan pricing declined. Loan nonperfor mance rose across all
loan t ypes, while growth in general business acti vity slow ed. Bank ers’ outlooks remained o pti-
mistic but ha ve moderated. The y cited net interest margin, liquidit y, and c ybersecurit y as to p out-
look concer ns. Contacts e xpect impro vement in loan demand and business acti vity over the ne xt
six months, but also a notable uptick in loan nonperfor mance.
Energ y
Oilfield acti vity pick ed up slightl y over the repor ting period. Contacts e xpect slightl y fewer wells
drilled this year but an increase in o verall production due to rising w ell producti vity. They repor ted
that capital spending plans for 2025 are largel y unchanged from last year . Tariffs constitute the
largest price risk to the oilfield, though contacts noted that the imp act would lik ely be insufficient
to affect capital in vestment plans. A couple of contacts credited significant e xpansions in T exas’
batter y storage cap acity for the impro ved perfor mance of the state’ s pow er grid during Januar y’s
winter stor m comp ared with p ast stor ms.
Agriculture
Drought conditions w ere largel y contained to the southw est parts of the District, while most other
areas had adequate soil moisture. Most cro p prices remained at largel y sub-profitable le vels,
though grain prices mo ved up o ver the repor ting period. Cor n prices rose to a value that is profit-
able for most T exas far mers, assuming the w eather coo perates. O verall, most contacts e xpect
favorable growing conditions this spring . Cattle prices rose fur ther to record highs, dri ven b y solid
demand and ebbing suppl y. Egg prices ha ve increased shar ply as the outbreak of a vian influenza
continues to imp act eg g farms across the U.S.44 The Beige Book
Community P erspectives
Nonprofit ser vice pro viders repor ted a sustained high le vel of demand, especiall y for rent assis-
tance and household staples. W orkforce de velopment agencies noted w ages in low er-skilled roles
are not k eeping up with inflation, causing financial strain for man y households and increasing
demand for childcare assistance be yond the a vailable le vel, resulting in growing w aitlists. Some
nonprofit organizations repor ted cutting budgets, beginning la yoffs, and making strategic pi vots to
sustain o perations amidst federal funding disr uptions. Funding cuts ha ve had a direct imp act on
newly resettled refugees, as their 90 da ys of suppor t services ha ve been affected, including assis-
tance with housing , food, healthcare and job placement. Social ser vice organizations also
obser ved a steep decline in ser vice utilization o ver the p ast month from foreign-bor n clients, some
of whom are undocumented, and said man y are skipping wor k and missing healthcare appoint-
ments or e ven school out of fear of depor tation.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .dallasfed.org/
research/te xas.Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas 45
Federal Reser ve Bank of
San F rancisco
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the T welfth District tick ed dow n during the Januar y to mid-F ebruary repor ting
period. Emplo yment le vels w ere generall y stable, and labor a vailabilit y continued to impro ve.
Wages gre w slightl y in recent w eeks, and prices rose slightl y overall. Retail sales fell modestl y,
and demand for consumer and business ser vices w eakened a bit. Manufacturing acti vity impro ved
some what, while conditions in the agriculture and resource-related sector s weakened slightl y. Con-
ditions in the residential real estate sector softened slightl y on net. Lending acti vity varied across
business lines but w as largel y unchanged on balance. O verall conditions of communit y organiza-
tions and small businesses w eakened. Wildfire reco very effor ts were repor tedly boosted b y
increased donations and impro ved coordination among indi viduals and institutions. Contacts ’ eco-
nomic outlook wor sened some what relati ve to the prior repor ting period.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels w ere generall y stable o ver the repor ting period. While most emplo yers kept
head counts steady , some fir ms in the infor mation technolog y, enter tainment, and aerosp ace
industries repor ted la yoffs. At the same time, hiring gre w in subsector s that e xperienced solid
demand and in vestment, such as business consulting and ar tificial intelligence solutions. Labor
producti vity impro ved o verall, repor tedly due to better job matching and enhanced use of tech-
nolog y. Emplo yers across sector s continued to repor t lower staff tur nover and impro ved a vailabilit y
and qualit y of job applicants. P ositions w ere generall y easier to fill e xcept for cer tain ser vice-
related jobs such as housek eeping and building maintenance. Some contacts cited concer ns
about filling these positions going forw ard.
Wages gre w slightl y in recent w eeks, in line with the prior repor ting period and with historical a ver-
ages. Ample labor suppl y reduced mar ket wage pressures across industries. How ever, minimum
wage laws and union contract negotiations continued to put upw ard pressure on w ages for some
positions in the ser vice sector , especiall y in Califor nia.
46
Prices
Prices rose slightl y overall after being generall y flat in the pre vious repor ting period. Manufacturing
and constr uction fir ms repor ted modest price increases in recent w eeks, while contacts in agricul-
ture, business ser vices, and retail trade noted largel y stable final goods prices. Costs of insur-
ance, electrical supplies, and building materials, such as wood products and various metals,
ticked up. Contacts e xpected higher input costs going forw ard, including those for fer tilizer s,
lumber , metals, and electrical components, as a result of recent trade polic y developments. Due
to perceptions of limited pow er to raise prices to mitigate rising costs, producer s significantl y
expanded in ventories of input goods at cur rent prices and sought ne w vendor s both domesticall y
and abroad.
Community Conditions
Demand for suppor t services remained ele vated, while o verall conditions of communit y organiza-
tions and small businesses w eakened. Indi viduals across the District sought assistance with food,
utilities, health care, and housing . Some wor kforce de velopment programs e xpanded training for
specific job roles that pro vide more stable long-ter m emplo yment. Nonprofit organizations across
the District repor ted being imp acted b y disr uptions in federal go vernment funding , with some orga-
nizations shifting budget allocations from public ser vice pro vision to inter nal operations. Contacts
in the Los Angeles area noted increased donations and impro ved coordination among indi viduals
and institutions to suppor t wildfire reco very effor ts. Small businesses o verall remained challenged
by high o perating costs, and some w ere acquired b y larger comp anies.
Retail T rade and Ser vices
Retail sales fell modestl y in recent w eeks, repor tedly at a p ace that e xceeded t ypical post-holida y
seasonal trends. Consumer spending on essential goods remained solid, while spending on big-
ticket items and home impro vement products generall y weakened. Low snow volumes in p arts of
the District hur t demand for outdoor products and winter equipment. Some contacts highlighted
that higher-income households across the District continued to spend at a brisk p ace and that
their demand for luxur y items remained robust.
Demand for consumer and business ser vices w eakened a bit. Repor ts indicated that man y busi-
nesses began the ne w year with a focus on cost efficienc y and o perational fle xibilit y, largel y driven
by budget constraints and ele vated economic uncer tainty. This strateg y repor tedly reduced
demand for janitorial, securit y, and catering ser vices. Business and group tra vel volumes fell
notabl y, with one hospitalit y contact in Souther n Califor nia repor ting a number of business trip
cancellations from groups imp acted b y recent changes to federal go vernment funding . Demand forFederal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco 47
consulting ser vices and health-care ser vices w as unchanged at solid le vels. Restaurant sales and
demand for leisure tra vel strengthened some what in recent w eeks.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity impro ved some what. Repor ts indicated stronger demand and order pipe-
lines for capital equipment, office and home fur niture, as w ell as foot wear and app arel. Production
of commercial aircraft and related third-p arty components pick ed up in recent w eeks following
repor ted production qualit y impro vements and the conclusion of associated labor strik es. Se veral
manufacturer s expressed concer ns regarding the imp act of announced tariff rate increases on
demand, production costs, and a vailabilit y of inputs. A manufacturer in the P acific Nor thwest
increased in ventor y levels, as did its supplier s of critical components, as a hedge against future
suppl y chain disr uptions.
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
Conditions in the agriculture and resource-related sector s weakened slightl y, as in the prior
repor ting period. Domestic produce sales w ere solid, but o verall e xports of agricultural products
were dow n, particular ly sales to Asian mar kets. Yields remained high for per manent cro ps such as
apples, though some contacts repor ted that w eather-related issues reduced produce suppl y
levels. Producer s and grow ers continued to in vest in automation to address labor shor tfalls. Some
contacts obser ved w eaker financial conditions in the industr y, citing e xamples of late contract p ay-
ments and requests for loan modifications. Producer s across the District e xpressed uncer tainty
about the imp act of recent changes to immigration and trade policies on labor a vailabilit y, inter na-
tional demand, input costs, and final retail prices.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Conditions in the residential real estate sector softened slightl y on net. Demand for single-famil y
homes remained solid in some regions, such as Souther n Califor nia, but repor tedly cooled in
other s such as Arizona and Oregon. In ventories remained limited. Demand rose for multifamil y
rental units, p articular ly at the low er end of the mar ket, and vacancies w ere easy to fill. Rents
rose some what despite recentl y completed units increasing local suppl y in some areas. Contacts
in the Los Angeles area attributed the increased demand for rental units and higher asking rents
to the recent wildfires. Contacts obser ved fe wer new single- and multifamil y constr uction projects,
citing higher constr uction costs and economic uncer tainty.
Commercial real estate conditions w ere largel y similar to those in the prior repor ting period. Office
space demand increased slightl y but remained subdued o verall. Rents for retail sp ace rose at a
pace in line with inflation. Commercial projects continued to be held back, with contacts citing48 The Beige Book
higher constr uction and financing costs. How ever, work on public and infrastr ucture projects con-
tinued. Contacts repor ted that businesses p aid attention to the possibilit y of fur ther increases in
constr uction materials costs and labor a vailabilit y issues.
Financial Institutions
Lending acti vity varied across business lines but w as largel y unchanged on balance. Banking con-
tacts highlighted a p ause in most ne w bor rowing and in vestment decisions among their business
clients as the y awaited clarit y regarding possible fiscal and regulator y polic y changes. Demand for
consumer loans, including mor tgages, remained subdued due to ele vated interest rates. Repor ts
indicated that competition for deposits among financial institutions began to nor malize of late,
allowing some institutions to offer low er deposit rates without notable changes to their deposit
flows. Credit qualit y remained repor tedly health y overall.Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco 49
www.federalreser ve.go v
0325