               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
               W e d n e s d a y  
               April 16, 2008 
  
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
   
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
  
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
April 2008 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
 
 
APRIL 2008 
 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  SUMMARY ……..…………..…………………………………………….………....i 
First District - Boston ………..………………………………………..…….……...I-1 Second District - New York ….……………………………………………………II-1 Third District - Philadelphia ….……………………………………………......…III-1 Fourth District - Cleveland ….……………………………………...…………….IV-1 Fifth District - Richmond ….……………………………………...…...…………..V-1 Sixth District - Atlanta ….……………………………………..…...……………..VI-1 Seventh District - Chicago ….………………………………………...………….VII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis ….…………………………………..…...….………..VIII-1 Ninth District - Minneapolis ….…………………………………...……………...IX-1 
Tenth District - Kansas City ….………………………………………...…...……..X-1 
Eleventh District - Dallas ….…………………………………………….………..XI-1 Twelfth District  - San Francisco ….…………………………...……………...…XII-1 
 i
SUMMARY* 
 
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicate that economic conditions 
have weakened since the last report. Nine Di stricts noted slowing in the pace of economic 
activity, while the remaining three—Boston, Cleveland, and Richm ond—described activity 
as mixed or steady.  
Consumer spending was characterized as so ftening across most of the country, with 
some Districts reporting year-over- year declines in retail and/or  auto sales.  In contrast, 
tourism was generally describe d as strong, with a number of  Districts noting particular 
strength in foreign visitors.  Reports on nonfinancial services varied by District: demand for 
transportation services was generally characte rized as weak, while business and health 
services continued to expand; other service industries were said to be mixed.  Trends in 
manufacturing also varied across Districts.  Reports on real estate and construction were 
generally anemic for the residential sector; activity in the commercial sector has slowed.  
Financial institutions in many Districts indicated some deceleration in consumer loan 
demand, tightening in lending standards, and dete rioration in asset qua lity.  Most Districts 
reported improved conditions in the agricultur al sector and robust activity in the energy 
industry.   
Labor markets were mostly described as weakening since the last report, though a few 
Districts reported ongoing shortages of skille d workers and some Districts noted wage 
pressures.  Increases in input costs were widespread, accompanied by somewhat smaller rises in selling prices.  
                                                
 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and based on information collected on or before April 7, 
2008.  This document summarizes comm ents received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal 
Reserve and is not a commentary on th e views of Federal Reserve officials. 
 ii
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
Consumer spending weakened in most, but not all, Districts since the last report.  In 
particular, automobile sales were generally repo rted to be flat or declining.  Vehicle sales 
were described as unchanged or falling in the Philadelphia, Cleveland,  Atlanta, and Dallas 
Districts and were characterized as weak in the Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San 
Francisco Districts.  However, Kansas City  reported that auto sales rebounded in March, 
though they remained lower than a year earlier.  Non-au to retailers reported  that sales were 
sluggish or declining in ten Di stricts.  Elsewhere, Boston not ed mixed sales trends, and New 
York reported a modest pickup since the last re port.  Chicago, San Francisco, and, to a lesser 
extent, Philadelphia note d relative strength in demand for luxury goods.   
Retail inventories were generally reported to be steady or rising.  Automobile 
inventories were said to be accumulating in th e Philadelphia and Atlant a Districts.  Among 
non-auto retailers, despite weakness in sales,  only a few reported any notable inventory 
accumulation; Atlanta cited some increase in  inventories, while the Richmond and San 
Francisco Districts noted that some inventory accumulation has prompted retailers to cancel 
orders.   
Despite the general weakness in consumer spending, tourism was generally described 
as robust, with that strength, in a number of in stances, attributed to international visitors.  
The Boston, New York, Atlanta, Minneapolis, a nd Kansas City Districts reported strong 
tourism activity, while the Richmond and Chica go Districts described th at sector as mixed, 
with pockets of strength.  San Francisco indica ted mixed but generally weak tourism activity.  
Reports from Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis specifically cite d foreign visitors as 
a source of strength.  
 iii
Nonfinancial Services  
Activity in the service sector was mixed ac ross Districts and across industries since 
the last report.  Looking at the service s ector in broad terms, Boston, Richmond, and 
Minneapolis reported some revenue growth; New York and St. Louis noted some softening; 
and San Francisco saw some deceleration.  A number of Districts reported weakness in 
transportation services: New York, Philadelphia,  Cleveland, Atlanta,  and Dallas described 
shipping and freight activity as sluggish or weakening, with New Yo rk attributing the 
softening to declining import volume at the port.  Richmond ports also noted weakening in imports but robust export activity.  There were scattered reports  of continued expansion in 
some other service industries, such as busine ss services (Boston, Philadelphia, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis) and health care (Chicago, San Francisco).   
Manufacturing
 
Manufacturing activity was varied, with some Districts reporting a slight increase in 
activity, some indicating weaker  activity, and several noting th at activity was mixed or had 
held steady. Chicago, Boston, and Richmond reported that activity was rising, but not 
substantially, while New York, Kansas City, Philadelphia and Dallas all reported that activity had weakened. St. Louis and Cleveland said th at activity had held steady, while Atlanta, 
Minneapolis and San Francisco saw activity as mixed. 
Demand was reported as strong for aerospace, aircraft, an d defense goods, as well as 
for steel and food. Automakers increased produc tion modestly in the Cleveland and Chicago 
Districts, but vehicle production declined in the Atla nta district. The Philadelphia District 
found that that demand for metals and machiner y had increased.  Many Di stricts cited strong 
exports generally.  Most Distri cts saw a continued slide in the demand for goods related to 
 iv
residential construction. Excess capacity led to production declines in the high-tech industry 
in the Dallas District, and Chicago reported w eak demand for heavy equipment. Uncertainty 
about economic conditions is leading to a varied, but generally subdued, outlook for 
manufacturers.  
Real Estate and Construction  
Housing markets and home construction re mained sluggish throughout most of the 
nation, though there were few signs of any quick ening in the pace of deterioration.  Ongoing 
weakness in housing markets, in general, was repor ted in almost all Dist ricts.  Sales activity 
was generally reported to be declining in th e Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas and San Francisco Districts, while Kansas City and Chicago 
noted slack demand and excess inventories.  On  the other hand, the Cleveland District saw 
some pickup in activity, while Richmond and Atlanta reported some pockets of 
improvement; Boston, Atlanta, and Chicago cite d some recent pickup in traffic or buyer 
inquiries.  New residential cons truction was reported to have re mained at depressed levels, 
and none of the Districts reported any pickup since the last report.    
Declines or downward pressures in selling pr ices were specifically reported in the 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atla nta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
and San Francisco Districts.  In particular, Ne w York and San Francisco noted some incipient 
price declines in areas that had previously shown resilience—respectively, New York City 
and the Pacific Northwest, as well as Utah.  On the other hand, the Cl eveland District noted 
some stabilization in home prices.   
Commercial real estate markets were genera lly reported to be steady or softening in 
most areas.  Weaker conditions in the rental market were reported in  eight Districts: New 
 v
York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco.  
On the other hand, the leasing market was fou nd to be steady in Boston, Kansas City and 
Dallas.  Reports on commercial development were mixed with activity having weakened in 
the Philadelphia, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts, but having increased in the Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts.   St. L ouis characterized commer cial construction as 
strong.  However, sales of co mmercial properties were genera lly indicated to be sluggish, 
while prices were said to be under dow nward pressure.  The Boston, Philadelphia, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Fr ancisco Districts all reported weakness in 
commercial real estate sales and prices.   
Banking and Finance
 
Banks reported mixed trends in  lending activity, with fairly  widespread slowing in the 
consumer segment but some stabi lization, at low levels, in residential mortgage activity.   
Overall lending activity was re ported to have incr eased in the Philadelphia, Richmond and 
St. Louis Districts, but to have declined in  the New York, Chicago, Kansas City and San 
Francisco Districts.  Dallas described lending activity as steady but soft.  Lending activity for 
new home mortgages, though ge nerally characterized as sl uggish, was reported to have 
stabilized in the New York, Cl eveland, Chicago, and San Francisc o Districts.  Consumer loan 
demand, however, weakened in a number of Districts: New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and 
Kansas City.   
Credit quality was reported to  have deteriorated, on balan ce, since the last report.  
Increased delinquency rates were  noted by New York, Philade lphia, and Cleveland, while 
Kansas City reported that loan quality remained lower than a year ago.  Widespread 
tightening in credit standards was reported, especially on resi dential and commercial real 
 vi
estate loans.  In general, banks were reporte d to be tightening credit standards in the New 
York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas C ity, Dallas and San Fran cisco Districts. In 
addition, Boston noted that standards rema in tight on commercial mortgages, while 
Philadelphia indicated that banks are limiting lending in this category.  Richmond indicated 
tighter standards on residential mortgages.     
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
 
Agricultural reports were generally upbeat , with most respo ndents citing improved 
growing conditions and favorable  pricing.  Although drought conditions continued to persist 
in some areas of the Atlanta and Richmond Distri cts, soil moisture wa s adequate for spring 
planting, in part, due to increases  in precipitation in March and ear ly April.  Reports from the 
Chicago, Kansas City, and St. Louis Districts indicated th at cool temperatures, dry 
conditions, or flooding toward th e end of March damaged some  winter crops and delayed 
field preparations for spring plantings. Farmer s in the Chicago, Kansas City, Minneapolis, 
and St. Louis Districts all reported plans to shift production away from  corn toward soybeans 
in 2008, in part, because of favorable soybean pr ices and elevated corn production costs.  
Some farms in the San Francisco District expressed concern over prolonged drought 
conditions and pending cuts in water delive ries.  Dairy and livestock producers in the 
Chicago, Dallas, Kansas City, and San Francisc o Districts expressed concern that increased 
feed costs had reduced margins.   
Districts reporting on energy c ontinued to see robust levels  of activity and steady to 
increasing prices.  In the Dalla s District, drilling remained strong and natural gas production 
has continued to increase.  In the Minneapolis District, expansion of the mining industry was 
 vii
underway, while oil and gas exploration remained r obust.  In general, contacts contended that 
increased demand for energy was expected to continue to boost ac tivity and prices.  
Labor Markets  
Despite some variation across Districts, employment levels appeared to be little 
changed, on balance, from recent months.  So me weakening in the job market was reported 
in the New York, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis District s.  Cleveland reported 
flat employment levels, while Richmond indica ted mixed trends. Boston and Kansas City 
indicated modest increases in employment, with  some deceleration indicated in the latter.  
Firms in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Minneap olis Districts reported layoffs, reductions in 
work hours, or hiring freezes in response to cu rrent or expected slowing in economic activity. 
Despite the general softening in their ma rkets overall, Atlanta and Chicago noted 
scattered shortages of skilled workers in various  service industries. Dallas reported relatively 
tight labor market conditions overall and cited shortages of managers and engineers, as well 
as farm workers.  Staffing and temp agencies reported mixed trends in labor demand: New 
York, Richmond, and Chicago reported some softening, whereas Cleveland and Dallas note 
some pickup.  In the financial services industry, some weakening in employment trends was reported in the New York, Chicago and St. L ouis Districts, and Sa n Francisco noted job 
losses in firms servicing th e real estate industry.   
Prices
 
Business contacts across all Districts continue d to report increases in input costs and 
output prices.  In particular, pr ice increases were consistently  reported for food products, fuel 
and energy products, and many raw ma terials.  More specificall y, increases in the price of 
chemicals, metals, plastics and other petrol eum-based products were commonly cited.  Most 
 viii
manufacturers have or are planni ng to increase prices in response to rising input costs, while 
the response of service firms has been more mixe d, in part due to differences in competitive 
pressures.  On balance, input costs have risen more rapidly than output prices, putting 
pressure on margins for many firms.  Most Dist ricts reported little change in retail price 
inflation, though Richmond and San Fr ancisco noted some moderation.  
Most business contacts repor ted that wages were uncha nged or were increasing 
moderately in all Districts.  Business contacts in the Atlant a, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, 
Philadelphia, and San Francisco Districts indicated that ther e has been some upward wage 
pressure for skilled labor in some sectors that continue to expe rience shortages.   
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Reports from business contacts in the First District  continue to be mixed, with most expressing 
concern about the near-term outlook.  Retail responde nts are seeing activity slow, although some remain 
ahead of year-earlier sales levels; tourism is fairly robust in the region. Contacted manufacturers mostly 
report revenue growth and say they are uneasy with high costs and a slowing U.S. economy; they are raising their prices where possible.  Real estate markets remain soft.   
Retail and Tourism 
Retail respondents in the First District cite mixed r esults for the late winter months, with the early 
Easter holiday adding uncertainty about sales trends.  A few contacts note that while same-store sales are 
up overall, they are experiencing a slowdown in the rate of growth.  Despite the possibility of a worsening economy, one respondent credits a new business plan  for her optimism about spring sales.  Another 
contact says that although business is down, they are encouraged by double-digit growth in customer 
count.  Sales of housing-related pr oducts (kitchen, bath, flooring, bedding, lumber) remain soft.   
Inventory levels and employment  are generally stable. Capital spending is mixed, with the 
majority of retailers not planning to cut back.  One retailer said, “you can start a negative trend by pulling 
back, and we don’t want to do that.”  A majority of First District respondents cite varying degrees of price 
pressure, with several specifically mentioning risi ng commodities prices as well as fuel-related costs.  
Selling prices are mostly steady, with mod est increases passed along where possible.  
Tourism and travel in the First District is st rong, with particular emphasis on international 
tourism.  Due to the favorable exchange rate and pent up demand, there has been a large increase in 
international travelers, particularly from the UK, Ireland, Germany, and Japan.  However, there is concern 
about the impact on domestic travel of the unsettle d economy, weak consumer confidence, high fuel 
costs, and the rising price of food. Business and conferen ce travel is expected to remain strong in the near 
term.   New England hotels and resorts do not seem to be scaling back on capital spending plans as new 
properties come online and many existing properties expand throughout the District.   
Overall, First District retailers are cautious ye t hopeful in their outlook.  One contact notes that 
“the recession probably started in December for retailers,” yet most respondents say that if the economy is 
in a recession, they expect it to be shallow and anticipat e that sales will start to pick up by the end of the 
year.  One retailer said that “it’s just a question of  the consumer getting through the next few months.” 
Manufacturing 
Most manufacturers and related services providers hea dquartered in the First District report that first 
quarter sales were up from a year ago, but they do not view the trends as robust or sustainable.  Many contacts report an uneven start to 2008, with sales of some items or during some months hitting soft patches.  A few office and IT equipment firms sa y their business customers are holding off on placing 
 
I - 2 
orders. Suppliers to the home constr uction industry indicate that their sales remain in the doldrums.  In 
contrast to the general picture, demand for aircraft  components and biopharmaceuticals continues to grow 
strongly, and contacts generally report that  overseas sales remain relatively strong.  
Many manufacturers continue to voice concerns about high or rising materials costs, especially 
metals, plastics and other petroleum derivatives, chem icals, vegetable oils, and grains.  Some also 
mention elevated fuel and transportation costs. Most of the affected respondents have raised prices since 
the beginning of the year, usually in the range of 4 percent to 8 percent, and some envision further price 
hikes.  Manufacturers generally report that customers are not resisting paying higher prices.  However, 
some firms are experiencing margin pressures because they sell into sectors accustomed to long-term 
pricing contracts or with cheaper supply alternatives. 
Most contacted manufacturers are holding their U.S. headcounts steady or making gradual 
cutbacks as they implement efficiencies.  Biotech firms are continuing to add U.S. jobs, however.  
Average pay increases generally are in the range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent.  More than one-half of the 
manufacturing respondents are planning to increase U.S. capital spending in 2008.  Projects include capacity expansions and product or ser vice enhancements.  Regardless of their investment plans, contacts 
say that access to capital is not a binding constraint on their spending.  
Almost all firms mention that they are asses sing how the weakness in the U.S. economy will 
affect their business for the remainder of the year.  They particularly express concerns about deterioration in consumer spending and th e financial services industry. 
Selected Business Services 
First District consultants report first quarter reve nue growth ranging from 5 percent to 25 percent 
over a year ago.  Demand for consulting services from the airlin e and media and entertainment industries 
is robust; however, financial services continues to weaken and demand from the telecom and technology industries has softened.   
The majority of contacted firms are increasing prices modestly, while the remainder are not 
changing bill rates, citing competitive pressures.  Se veral respondents note increased travel costs and one 
reports a number of their foreign vendors are increasi ng Euro prices.  Headcounts at the majority of 
responding New England firms are growing, but at a s lightly slower rate than revenues.  One contact 
recently scaled back hiring plans.  Most respondent s are increasing wages 5 percent on average in 2008.  
While all New England business services res pondents express concern about the economy, the 
majority are cautiously optimistic, expecting steady revenue growth in the first half of 2008.   
Commercial Real Estate 
 The conditions and trends in the commercial market are little changed on balance since last 
report.  Credit remains very tight; for example, life insurance lenders continue to ration credit, raising 
 
I - 3 
their interest rates by 50 basis points in recent week s and pushing loan-to-value ratios down to 50 percent.  
Conservative underwriting and credit rationing are said to reflect expectations of declining commercial 
real estate property values in the coming two to three quarters, as well as shortfalls in capital reserves due 
to lower-than-expected loan prepayment rates.  In th e greater Boston area there have been very few sales 
transactions and little evidence that sellers are offering significant price discounts yet.  As last time, a 
mutual bank in Boston with a modest commercial portf olio continues to experience very high demand for 
loans, including loans for retail acquisitions as well as new construction of apartment buildings, office 
space, and retail outlets.  Some of this demand is coming from larger banks look ing to fund large deals 
without putting up as much of their own capital.   
The leasing market is holding steady in most part s of the region.  The vacancy rate for prime 
downtown Boston office space is estimated to be 10 per cent. The vacancy rate edged up from 8 percent to 
9 percent in downtown Providence, and remained stable in Portland.  Asking rents continue to rise in 
Boston, but contacts warn that contracted rents may be below asking rates.  Rents are flat or slightly down 
in the rest of the region.  The outlook is mixed, but  biased toward the negative side.  As last time, the 
main concerns are that leasing fundamentals w ill deteriorate—some contacts mention an impending 
recession—and that credit will remain scarce.    
Residential Real Estate 
Residential real estate markets in New England continue to show declining sales and prices in 
early 2008.  Home sales decreased 24 percent year-over-year in January in Rhode Island, 20 percent in February in Maine, and 23 percent in February  in Massachusetts, while Massachusetts condo sales 
declined almost 35 percent year-over-year.  Connec ticut and New Hampshire saw home sales declines of 
27 and 24 percent, respectively, year-to-date compared to the same period last year .  
Median home prices in Massachusetts decreased about 5 percent year-over-year in February 
while median condo prices decreased almost 7 percen t; Connecticut and New Hampshire’s price declines 
were similar.  Rhode Island home prices dropped 13 percent in January, while Maine home prices 
decreased 2 percent in February from a year earlier. 
Several contacts say that lack of consumer confidence continues to be the main factor keeping a 
damper on the market, as many potential buyers wa it to see if prices will decline further.  However, 
contacts in Massachusetts report a recent increase in traffic, especially at open houses.   
 II-1 
 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has shown further signs of weakening since the last report.  
Manufacturers report that business activity tailed off s ubstantially in February and early March and has 
been flat since.  Import volume at the Port of New York is also reported to have slowed noticeably.  
Contacts outside the manufacturing sector generally i ndicate continued softening in business activity and 
little change in employment levels.  More broadly, a major employment agency indicates some slowing 
in hiring activity since the last report.  Retailers indicate a moderate pickup in business in March, after a disappointing February; sales are said to be on or close to plan.   
Tourism activity in New York City has held stea dy since the last report.  Housing markets are 
reported to have softened further, including Manhatta n’s previously resilient co-op and condo market.  
Office markets across the New York City area showed so me signs of slackening in the first quarter, with 
vacancy rates edging up and asking rents decelerating. Finally, bankers report further weakening in loan 
demand, more pronounced tightening in credit standards, and widespread increases in delinquency rates 
across the board.  
Consumer Spending  
Retailers report that sales picked up somewhat in March and were back on or close to plan, 
following a disappointingly weak February.  As in recent months, sales were relatively strong in New 
York City.  Overall, sales are reported to be little cha nged from a year earlier, and inventories are said to 
be at or near desired levels.  Retail selling prices are reported to have remained steady since the last 
report, but one contact foresees some significant increases in acquisition costs on the horizon.   
Consumer surveys point to further erosion in confidence: Based on the Conference Board’s 
survey of Middle Atlantic residents, consumer c onfidence declined for the sixth consecutive month in 
March, falling to its lowest level in nearly 12 years.   Similarly, Siena College’s survey of New York 
 II-2 
 
State residents shows sharp declines in consumer confidence across all metro areas in the first quarter; 
over the past year, the steepest declines, by far, have  been in the New York C ity and Albany metro areas. 
Tourism activity in New York City has been steady since the last report, with the level of activity 
still fairly high.  While Manhattan’s hotel occupancy rate was up 3 percentage points from a year earlier 
in February, room rates edged down in the month to a level 9 percent higher than a year earlier, 
compared with double-digit percentage gains throughout 2007.  Broadway theaters report that attendance was up 3 percent from a year earlier in March—about the same as in February—but that revenues were up less than 2 percent, reflecting a slight d ecline in the average effective ticket price. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Housing markets in the District have continued to cool off. Manhattan’s co-op and condo market 
showed clear signs of cooling in the first quarter, acco rding to a major appraisal firm: unit sales fell 30 to 
40 percent from a year earlier, while the number of listings rose, although inventories remained fairly 
tight at the high end of the market.  The average reported transaction price did increase, but this was 
attributed to relatively brisk sales at the high end of the market (largely newly-built luxury units).  
Noticeable declines in sales are also reported in Brooklyn, Queens and Long Island.  Northern New Jersey’s housing market is reported to have stabilized, but at low levels.  An industry contact notes that 
buyer traffic is light, and that many prospective buyers ar e hesitant, waiting for prices to decline further.  
The number of listings has increased, and, in contrast with Manhattan, the high end of the market has been accumulating inventory at a more  rapid pace than the rest of the market. The “active-adult” segment 
is noted to be particularly slack, reflecting above-average inventories and particularly weak demand. Prices for new homes are estimated to be down as much  as 20 percent from a year ago, while prices for 
existing homes are seen to be off 15 percent from th eir peak levels.  Finally, New York State Realtors 
indicate further marked declines in the single-family  market in February: the median selling price is 
reported to be down nearly 12 percent from a year earlier, while unit sales are reported to be down 19 
 II-3 
 
percent, with some of the sharpest drops in the New York metro area. 
Commercial real estate markets have also slack ened.  Vacancy rates ro se moderately throughout 
the New York City metropolitan area, led by somewh at large increases in Central New Jersey and 
Westchester County.  Asking rents on Class A properties rose moderately in Manhattan and Fairfield 
County, though at a slower pace than in 2007; rent s were flat to down slightly in Long Island, 
Westchester and northern, as well as central, New Jersey.   
Other Business Activity 
A major New York City employment agency, specializing in office jobs, reports that hiring 
activity weakened in March and improved only modestly in early April.  On the supply side, this contact 
reports seeing somewhat more job candidates recently let go from the financial sector than in February, but indicates that there are still relatively few such a pplicants.  Large Wall Street firms are reported to be 
hiring only sporadically, and legal firms have become more patient in hiring; some hedge funds continue 
to hire, while others have pulled back.   
New York State manufacturers report that business activity weakened noticeab ly in February and 
early March, before leveling off in early April.  Contacts also report further acceleration in prices paid but only modest increases in selling prices.  Over all, manufacturers anticipate little change in their 
employment levels over the next year.  A major shipping terminal at the Port of New York reports that import volume has slowed noticeably in early 2008: after 6-7 percent gains in 2007, the volume of incoming containers is running flat in early 2008, compared with a year earlier.  In general, non-
manufacturing firms in the District report continued weakening in general business activity and little 
change in employment levels; these firms also con tinue to rein in capital spending plans somewhat.  
Financial Developments  
Bankers report weakened demand across all loan categories except residential mortgages, where 
demand remained unchanged.  The decrease in demand was most widespread in the consumer loan 
 II-4 
 
category, where close to half of the bankers surveyed report lower demand, while just one in six report 
higher demand.  Bankers do report an increase in refinancing activity, on net.  Respondents indicate widespread tightening of credit standards across all categories.  No bankers reported eased standards for any type of loan.  Reports on the spreads of loan ra tes over cost of funds were split across the consumer 
and commercial loan groups.  Bankers reported narrowing spreads for consumer loans and residential mortgages.  For commercial mortgages and commercial & industrial loans, bankers indicated no change in spreads.  Respondents indicate increased delinquency rates in all loan categories; overall, reported increases are now more widespread than at a ny time in at least 13 years of this survey. 
III - 1 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Business activity in the Third District, on ba lance, appeared to soften further in March, 
although some sectors made slight gains. Manufacturers reported declines in new orders and 
shipments, overall. Retailers generally reported sluggish sales, with many posting year-over-year 
decreases. Auto sales continued to fall. Bank lending has continued to increase moderately. 
Residential real estate sales and construction remained well below the pace of a year ago. 
Commercial construction activity remained slow. Service-sector firms gave mixed reports; some 
have had modest growth, but others have experien ced declining business. Re ports of increases in 
input costs and output prices were  about as prevalent in March as  they were in February. Wage 
increases were reported to be moderate. 
The outlook among Third District businesses varies. Manufacturers’ forecasts have 
improved somewhat since the last Beige Book. On balance, they expect increases in shipments 
and orders during the next six months. However, retailers have generally  made further downward 
revisions to their 2008 forecasts, and some are uncer tain that sales will turn up before the year 
comes to a close. Auto dealers expect sales in 2008 to be below those of 2007. Bankers anticipate slow expansion in ove rall lending but expect further de terioration in credit quality. 
Residential real estate ag ents expect sales to continue to be slow through the re st of the year. 
Contacts in commercial real estate anticipate slow er leasing activity and fewer building sales this 
year compared with last year.  
 
Manufacturing 
Third District manufacturers reported falling shipments and new orders, on balance, in 
March compared with February. Around one-four th of the manufacture rs surveyed noted 
decreases, and around one-fifth noted increases.  Manufacturers also re ported a drop in order 
backlogs, on balance.  Increas ed demand for their products was reported by producers of metals, 
metal products, and machinery. Decreased demand was noted by producers of apparel, furniture, 
and industrial materials. Regional manufacturers’  assessments of current business conditions 
varied greatly, with some reporting “quite good” business, while others reported “low demand.”  
One contact noted that the trend in new orders was “very spotty,”  and another said the “spectrum 
of client confidence ranges from optimism to gloom.” 
III - 2 
The outlook in the Third District manufacturi ng sector has turned positive, on balance, 
since the last Beige Book. One-third of the manu facturers polled in March expect new orders and 
shipments to turn up during the next six mont hs, and one-fourth expect further declines.  
However, capital spending plans at area manufactu ring firms remain weak, with no increases in 
spending planned, on balance. 
 
Retail 
Retailers in the Third District generally reported continued slu ggishness in sales in 
March, and many stores have posted year-to-ye ar decreases in recent weeks. Most store 
executives said consumer confidence has dropped significantly. Sales have slipped for nearly all 
lines of merchandise and for all types of stores. Stores oriented toward middle- and lower-income shoppers appear to be experiencing a grea ter weakness in sales than those serving upper-
income shoppers. An executive at a large mid-price retailer said, “our cons umer has pulled out of 
the market.” 
The outlook among retailers in th e District is not positive. Th e early response to spring 
merchandise, according to a department store chain, “is not looking good.” Several store officials said they have made further downward revisions to their sales forecasts for the year, and most 
are limiting inventories. Many of the retail execu tives contacted for this report also expressed 
concern about growing difficulties in financing their operations, noting recent reductions in the availability of both short-term credit and long-term financing. 
Auto dealers in the region generally repor ted a continuing downward sales trend in 
March. Inventories have increased with the sa les slowdown, but dealers have been limiting 
restocking. Dealers in the region ha ve reduced their forecasts for the year, and the consensus is 
that sales are unlikely to improve muc h, if at all, from the current rate. 
 Finance 
Total outstanding loans at Third District ba nks rose moderately in March across major 
credit categories. Banks and other financial inst itutions making home mortgage loans reported a 
slight pickup in originations, on balance, in Ma rch compared with Februa ry. A majority of the 
new loans are conforming mortgages that have been sold to the national mortgage agencies, 
although, according to one contact, “gold-plated” jumbo mortgages are being made and retained, 
III - 3 
albeit at higher rates and lower loan-to-value ratios than heretofore. Bankers said they are 
actively seeking to expand commercial loan portfo lios but are being more selective in evaluating 
potential borrowers, and they are limiting commercial real estate lending. Banks in the District 
are expanding personal lending. Most  bank contacts indicated that asset quality ove rall continued 
to weaken, although most of those surveyed for th is report said increases in delinquencies and 
chargeoffs have been moderate. Looking ahead, ba nkers generally foresee slow growth in overall 
lending during the rest of the year, and they expect  some further deteriora tion in credit quality 
before loan performance measures begin to improve. 
Banks and other financial institu tions continued to report frict ions in secondary markets. 
According to one contact, “liquidity is scarce an d trading is difficult” as most institutions are 
focused on rebuilding capital. In response to retrenchment in secondary markets, some banks in 
the District have stepped up promotiona l efforts to gather retail deposits.  
 
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate activ ity in the first quarter was well below the pace of the same 
period last year. A contact in dicated that housing demand has been “weak, with jumbo and 
subprime mortgages gone.” Residentia l real estate agents said that  inventories have increased, as 
have average days on the market. Prices for both new and existing homes remained under 
downward pressure. Real estate ag ents said that some sellers of  existing homes have pulled them 
off the market rather than accept large reductions from asking prices , and a builder indicated that 
his “asking prices couldn’t get low enough” to clear out inventor y. Contacts saw a few signs of 
rising interest in home buying in March, with some increased traffic both in person and on 
websites, but they have yet to see any increase in sa les. In general, residential real estate contacts 
do not expect market conditions to improve this year. 
Commercial real estate firm s indicated that many proposed projects have been put on 
hold in response to reductions in available financing and pullbacks by prospective tenants. Rents 
have remained stable, but bu ilding prices have come under some downward pressure as 
investors’ interest in commercial real estate  has ebbed. Contacts antic ipate slower sales, 
construction, and leasing activity this year than la st year, but they expect rental rates to remain 
fairly stable. 
 
III - 4 
Services 
Service-sector firms gave mixed reports  on business conditions in March. Business 
services firms, other than those associated with  real estate and constr uction, generally reported 
modest growth. Firms serving the real estate and cons truction industry, such as engineering and 
design firms, reported slowing business. Transpor tation companies also indicated that business 
has slowed recently. Employment agencies and te mporary help firms reported that demand for 
workers grew steadily in the firs t quarter, but they expect a sl owdown in hiring through midyear. 
Most of the service-sector firm s contacted for this report expect current trends in business to 
continue through midyear, with slow growth for firms currently making gains but further 
declines for those firms w hose business has been falling. 
 
Prices and Wages 
Reports of increases in input costs and output prices from Th ird District business contacts 
were about as common in March as they were in February. Firms in the region noted increases in 
the prices of food products, chemicals, industria l materials, metals, and electrical equipment. 
They also reported rising costs for energy, and so me noted that further in creases are expected.  
Most of the firms reporting on employment cost s in March indicated that wage increases 
remained moderate, although some noted that wage offers for some hard to fill positions have 
been raised by substantial amounts. However, an  increasing number of firms appear to be 
implementing hiring freezes in response to current or expected slowing in business activity. 
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Economic activity in the Fourth Distri ct held steady since mid-February.   In general, 
factory output was unchanged, though shipments by steel producers and serv ice centers were on 
the rise.  Production at auto assembly plants increased slightly.  The housing industry remains 
weak with little expectation of improvement in th e near future.  Commerci al building contractors 
reported steady to increasing business a nd a rise in the number of inquiries.   Sales by District 
retailers were flat to declini ng.  Bankers cited a slight improvement in consumer lending and a 
small drop in business loans.  While there has been  some tightening in credit standards, credit is 
widely available to qualified applicants.   Energy production was stable to increasing.  And the 
demand for freight transport services was soft.    
Employment levels and wages were largel y unchanged Districtwide.  However, energy 
companies reported strong employment growth and some wage pressure.  Staffing firms cited a 
slight increase in the number  of job openings, persons seeking jobs, and placements.  Demand 
was greatest in health care and professional business services.  A significant rise  in commodity-
based input prices was reported by manufacturers, commercial contractors, and restaurateurs.  
Manufacturing.  For the most part, output by District  factories has not changed during 
the past six weeks.  Reports of decreased producti on were attributed to declines in residential 
construction or seasonal adjustments.  On a year-over-year basis, reports were evenly split 
between production slowdowns and increases, with only one comp any experiencing a significant 
decline.  Outlook by manufacturers is best described as cautious, with a few contacts noting a 
softening in demand.   Steel shipments were on the rise fo r both producers and steel service 
centers.  Expectations call for demand to remain at  current levels or to increase during the second 
quarter.  The strongest end mark ets for steel include energy and capital goods.  District auto 
production increased slightly in February.  Outp ut by domestic nameplates increased while their 
foreign counterparts showed a small decline.  In terms of year-over-year comparisons, auto 
production was up slightly.   
Several contacts noted an increase in expor ts.  Capital spending remains on plan, with 
most producers saying that 2008 expenditures will be at or above 2007 le vels.  Three contacts 
told us they plan to increase spending substa ntially on capacity expansi on projects.  Access to 
IV - 2  
credit has not been an issue for manufacturers.  However, a few mentioned that their accounts 
receivable have been impacted by customers wh o were negatively affected by tightening credit 
standards.  Almost all manufactur ers reported strong price increase s for raw materials, especially 
metals and thermoplastics.  However, less than a third had raised their prices in response, and 
only a few contacts plan to raise pric es in the near future.  On bala nce, there was little change in 
employment levels, and limited hiring is expected in the near future.  Wage pressures are not an 
issue though many respondents expressed conc ern about rising health-care costs.  
Real Estate.   Residential contractors reported new home sales we re flat to up slightly 
during the past six weeks.  Almost all contacts affirmed that traffic has picked up, but they are unable to translate it into sales.  Looking forward, home build ers believe 2008 sales will be 
similar to those in 2007, with a slight pickup antic ipated toward the end of the year.  Since our 
last report, new home prices have been relativ ely stable though some discounting is still taking 
place.  Material prices have held steady, while overall building costs are down slightly due to 
competitive pricing by subcontractors.   
Commercial contractors reporte d that business has been steady to increasing slightly 
since our last report and on a year-o ver-year basis.  Inquiries have picked up and backlogs are at 
acceptable levels.  Credit was available to all ou r contacts.  Expectations call for construction 
activity to remain at current levels or to stre ngthen.  Most contractors have experienced some 
increase in the cost of materials, with the price of steel rising sharply.  Workforce levels remain 
largely unchanged.  Pricing for subcontractor services is competitive.
   
Consumer Spending.  District retailers reported flat to declining sales in February when 
compared to the previous month.  Expectations  are for some weakness in sales to continue 
throughout the second quarter.  Auto dealers reported sales of new and used vehicles were unchanged to declining.  However, most dealers anticipate an upturn in sales during the coming 
weeks.
  Except for agricultural products, vendor prices  were relatively stable.  Restaurateurs 
reported passing through their increa sed costs to customers.  Employ ment levels were adjusted to 
meet seasonal demands or for staffing new stor es.  Although capital spending remains on plan, 
half of our contacts told us that they intend to reduce future expenditures.   
IV - 3  
Banking.   Most bankers reported demand for busin ess loans was steady or declining 
since our last report.  Those showing increased lo an volume attribute it to greater utilization of 
existing lines.  Overall loan demand by consumers was steady to increasing slightly; however, 
bankers noted that requests for home equity loans were on the decline.  The residential mortgage 
market remains sluggish with most activity limited to refinancing.  A majority of bankers told us 
that they are tightening credit standards to sc reen out riskier borrowe rs, but that credit is 
available to qualified businesses and consumers.  A small increase in delinquencies was also 
reported.  Almost all respondents experienced growth in core deposits, while a majority saw an 
easing in margin pressure.  On balance, there has been a small decline in employment levels 
across community and national banks.  Wage pre ssure is not an issue though several contacts 
expressed concern about ri sing health care costs.  
Energy.  Oil, gas, and coal production has been st eady to increasing slig htly over the past 
six weeks.  Looking forward, a major ity of our contacts to ld us they expect to  see a rise in the 
demand for energy.  Reports indicate that spot and contract prices ha ve increased across the 
board.  In general, equipment a nd material costs were stable.  Capital expenditures remained on 
plan, with most respondents anticipating a pic kup during the next few months.  Nearly all 
producers increased their workforce size.  However, many of them told us that it is becoming 
increasingly difficult to attract qualified worker s, which is contributi ng to upward pressure on 
wages.    
Transportation.  Business was soft during the past six weeks with freight volumes 
running below available capacity.  In general, transportation  executives expect current market 
conditions will continue into the near future.  Several contacts noted difficulty in balancing 
downward pressure on freight prices  against rising fuel costs.  However, there has been some 
easing of customer resistance to increases in fuel surcharges.  A fe w respondents reported 
significant declines in capital expenditures with  future spending dependent on the level of 
business activity.  For the most part, hiring wa s limited to driver turnover.  Some upward 
pressure on wages was linked to compan ies trying to retain drivers.    
V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview.  Economic activity in the Fifth District continued to advance at a sluggish pace in 
late February and March, though there were a few signs of improvement.  Retailers said that 
consumers continued to rein in their spending. Home sales activity remained weak in most markets and assessments of commercial real estate conditions in the District were generally downbeat.  In addition, commercial lending activity continued to slump, though residential lenders noted that demand for home mortgages edged higher.  Other sectors fared better in recent weeks, however. Activity at Fifth District factories and ports picked  up since our last report, spurred by strong overseas 
demand for U.S. goods.  Additionally, revenue growth at services firms was steady and reports on 
tourist activity were mostly upbeat.  There was also brighter news from District farms as overall 
conditions improved and spring planting activity proceeded on schedule.  On the employment front, hiring activity was mixed.  Service providers added workers, while manufacturers and retailers continued to trim payrolls.  Readings on prices also varied as retail and services price growth moderated somewhat, while raw material costs were up sharply. 
 Retail.  District merchants reported that retail sales activity dwindled further in recent weeks.  
The manager of a sporting goods store in West Virginia said sales were “significantly slower” over the 
past six weeks, while a contact at a department store in the Washington, D.C., area noted that shoppers 
were "only spending when they had to."  Sales of big-ticket items such as furniture and automobiles were especially weak.  A contact in Charleston, W.Va., told us his automobile dealership had the worst March in company history.  In response, some retailers adjusted inventory and staffing levels.  An executive at a large building supply chain said spring inventories were lower than normal and that summer hiring plans had been curtailed.  Measures of retail price growth eased a bit, though we heard more widespread concerns about rising transportation costs.  
 Services.  District service providers reported moderate revenue growth since our last report.  
Contacts at engineering and telecommunications firm s noted a pickup in revenues, while contacts at 
architectural and web design firms reported steady dema nd.  In contrast, activity at financial services 
firms was sluggish as clients remained uncertain about  general economic prospects.  Hiring at services 
firms edged up in recent weeks, while price growth cooled. 
Manufacturing.  District manufacturers said that production activity firmed a bit in March.  
Producers noted healthy increases in shipments and new orders which they attributed to strong overseas demand.  An electrical equipment manufacturer in Maryland told us that his European 
V-2  
business had gained momentum and that shipments to Asia remained strong.  On the other hand, 
contacts said tentative U.S. consumers continued to limit domestic demand.  “Unabated” price growth remained a challenge for producers.  Contacts reported that raw material prices grew more quickly in recent weeks behind sharp increases in energy costs.  District manufacturers also indicated that their margins were being compressed further due to a growing inability to pass along price increases. 
 Ports.   Export activity at District ports continued to “boom” in March as attractively-priced 
U.S. goods drove growth in exports.  Contacts said that increased grain exports also bolstered activity 
in recent weeks.  Nonetheless, port officials noted that weakening domestic demand contributed to 
softness in import volumes, especially automobiles and household goods.  Additionally, contacts voiced some concerns over potential supply chain disruptions due to rising fuel costs. 
 Finance.  Feedback from residential lenders was more encouraging in recent weeks.  Contacts 
in Richmond, Va., and Charleston, S.C., noted a pickup in overall lending activity as an increase in 
mortgage originations more than offset a slowdown in refinancing activity.  Reports on interest rates suggested only small changes.  Contacts in Greenville and Charleston, S.C., said mortgage rates edged lower in March, but lenders in Richmond, Va., and Raleigh, N.C., told us rates were “roughly the same.”  In addition, contacts noted that credit standa rds continued to tighten—lenders said they were 
enforcing stricter income ratios and requiring larger down payments over the last six weeks.  On the commercial side, contacts described lending activity as “lukewarm.”  Demand for commercial loans was relatively steady since our last report, though activity was “still below average” according to a lender operating in Virginia and the Carolinas.  Contacts also noted downward pressure on interest rates in recent weeks as competition for quality applicants intensified.  Feedback on credit standards varied.  A Charleston, W.Va., banker said his institution was requiring more equity for transactions, while a Baltimore, Md., contact reported no major changes in credit standards over the previous 
month.  
 Real Estate.  Fifth District housing markets remained generally sluggish in recent weeks, 
though there were some pockets of improvement.  A Realtor in Richmond, Va., told us sales were 
“basically flat” in March, while an agent in Charlotte, N.C., said sales were down thirty-five percent from the previous month.  Similarly, a contact in Washington, D.C., noted very few “signs of life” in his market, but speculated that the “worst was over” in terms of the housing slump.  On the flip side, a Realtor in Greenville, S.C., reported “excellent” sales over the last six weeks and an agent in Fredericksburg, Va., noted a jump in prospective buyers.  A contact in Richmond, Va., said that a majority of his recent sales had been on homes under $350,000, though a Realtor in Greensboro, N.C., 
V-3  
told us that some properties in the million dollar range were “starting to move.”  Home prices across 
the District continued to soften a bit since our last report and construction activity was limited.    
 Assessments of commercial real estate conditions were a bit weaker in recent weeks as 
additional softness in the northern half of the District overshadowed somewhat positive reports from the Carolinas.  The pace of leasing activity was steady in Raleigh and Charlotte, N.C., while an agent in Richmond Va., remarked that clients were “starting to pull in their horns.”  Similarly, a Washington, D.C., contact told us that his area “hasn’t seen the normal spring pickup.”  Reports on vacancy rates were also mixed.  Realtors in Baltimore, Md., and Charleston, W.Va., reported little to no change, the 
Columbia, S.C., and Charlotte, N.C., markets saw rates edge lower, while contacts in northern Virginia 
and Richmond, Va., noted an uptick in vacancies.  Rental rates were flat across the District, though agents in Richmond, Va., and Washington, D.C., said landlords were offering incentives to retain clients.  Reports of new construction activity remained “sparse” as lenders continued to heavily scrutinize proposals.  Agents in Columbia, S.C., and Richmond, Va., noted an increase in the number of deals falling through, while a Charlotte, N.C., contact said, “finding a developer who can close is the trick right now.” 
 Tourism.  Reports on tourist activity varied in late February and March.  Managers at 
mountain resorts in Virginia and West Virginia said their ski seasons had improved notably compared 
to last year, and that their resorts’ reservations were “booked to capacity” for the Easter weekend.  Contacts along the coast, however, told us that it was “not their best Easter,” which they attributed to the holiday occurring earlier than normal.   
 Temporary Employment.  Fifth District temporary employment agents continued to report 
somewhat weaker demand for workers over the past six weeks.  Contacts said that requests for 
warehouse and distribution center workers had fallen off sharply, though demand for temporary 
employees with computer and administrative skills remained strong.  Looking forward, contacts 
expected demand for workers to pull back further in the months ahead as clients revised hiring plans amid the ongoing economic uncertainty. 
 Agriculture.   Reports from District farms were more upbeat in recent weeks.  Although 
drought conditions persisted in a number of areas, contacts told us that soil moisture was adequate for 
field preparation and planting in most parts of the District.  An agricultural analyst in North Carolina 
said that farmers had started planting potatoes and cabbage and were preparing their fields for additional spring plantings.  In addition, contacts in Maryland and Virginia reported that small grain crops were in good to excellent condition. 
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
 Summary.  Sixth District business contacts indicated that overall economic 
activity weakened in March and early April.  Several retailer and auto dealer contacts 
noted that sales were moderately lower than a year ago.  However, most tourism industry 
contacts reported that spending remained pos itive on balance.  Residential real estate 
activity continued to be weak, with ma ny areas noting high inventories and price 
declines.  Commercial development was also below year-ago levels in most areas.  
Manufacturing varied by industry, with energy, defense, and aerospace production 
remaining steady, while automobile and c onstruction-related pr oduction declined.  
Banking industry contacts continued to re port tight lending st andards throughout the 
region.  On balance, labor markets weaken ed, with contacts in several industries 
reporting a pull-back in hiring and an increase in layoffs.  Contacts continued to note 
concern over rising food, energy and raw mate rials prices.  Drought conditions eased 
somewhat in March and early April. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Most District merchants continued to report 
weak sales during March and early April compared with a year ago.  Inventories were 
described as mixed, with nearly half of our contacts reporting that levels were even with a 
year ago and many others citi ng rising inventories.  Reta ilers’ outlook was less positive 
than in the previous report, with more merchants expecting slower sales over the next several months. 
District vehicle sales con tinued to weaken.  Dealers reported disappointing sale 
volumes in March, despite added incentives for slow-selling trucks and SUVs.  Sluggish 
consumer demand for new vehicles has resulted in inventory accumulation for both domestic and foreign brands.   
Reports on hospitality and tourism indicat ed continuing strength through March.  
New Orleans contacts noted continuing im provement in the city’s tourism and 
convention activity.  Gaming revenues from the Mississippi Gulf Coast resorts also 
strengthened.  Reports from Florida were also largely positive, with many destinations there benefiting from an increase in interna tional visitors, especially from Europe.   
Real Estate.  Homebuilders and Realtors reporte d that new and existing home 
sales remained well below year-ago levels in  March.  Several homebuilders noted that 
VI-2 
traffic had picked up somewhat, although sale s had not.  Most Realtors reported that 
buying interest remained very weak.  Home prices continued to trend lower in most parts 
of the District, while inventories remained at high levels.  Overall, District housing markets are expected to remain subdued in th e near term.  Most c ontacts suggested that 
the spring selling season will be pivotal to the year’s performance. 
Reports from District c ontractors indicated that commercial development had 
weakened.  Nearly half of our contacts repo rted that commercial construction declined 
significantly during the first quarter of 2008 compared with  a year ago.  Meanwhile, 
order backlogs continued to shrink throughout much of the District.  Contacts noted a 
sharp increase in material prices, while labor costs growth held fairly steady.  
Expectations for commercial development for th e remainder of the year have weakened.   
Manufacturing and Transportation.  Reports from manufacturing contacts 
continued to be mixed.  Energy, defense, and aerospace industries reported steady 
growth.  However, industries related to residential housing conti nued to report production 
cutbacks and declines in new orders.  Auto mobile production also declined.  Reports 
continued to indicate that the lower value of the dollar had resulted in expanded export 
activity.  Demand for domestic freight servi ces continued to be weak, and high diesel 
prices were reportedly loweri ng the profitability of many tr ucking companies that have 
not been able to pass on higher fuel costs to  their customers.  Regional rail shipments 
through mid-March indicated weakness in auto s and housing-related goods, but gains in 
deliveries of agricu ltural goods, chemicals, and metals.   
Banking and Finance.  Contacts in the banking industry continued to report tight 
credit conditions across the Dist rict.  Mortgage loan applica tions continued to be closely 
scrutinized, and consumer and business loans are also facing tighter standards.  Small business borrowers are reportedly being adversel y affected as a result.  New business and 
consumer loan demand softened, although util ization rates for existing lines of credit 
increased.   
Employment and Prices.  District employment activity  was generally subdued in 
March.  Several businesses indicated they were trimming their hiring plans, and several reported leaving vacancies unfilled.  Some we re also cutting back on hours and cutting 
part-time employment.  According to contac ts, construction-relate d businesses continued 
VI-3 
to lay-off staff, or substantially trimmed their seasonal hiring plans.  Stronger hiring 
reports came from the coastal regions where post-Katrina rebuildi ng efforts were still 
getting underway.  Shortages of skilled worker s continued to be noted by some contacts, 
particularly in the healthcar e industry.  Several contacts al so reported that they were 
hesitant to part with skilled employees de spite weaker economic activity because they 
wanted to have a quality workforce in place when conditions improved.   
Increases in food and energy-related prices were noted across th e District at both 
the wholesale and retail levels.  Raw materials prices, especially metals, were also accelerating according to several contacts.  The ability of businesses to pass on these 
higher material costs to their customers varied. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources.  District farm areas received more rain 
during March and early April,  providing temporary relief to  drought-stricken areas.  
Current market conditions for poultry and cotton are favorable as higher prices have boosted the near-term outlook.  Higher citrus  production and inventor ies in Florida and 
Brazil partly contributed to softening prices for those goods.  Refinery utilization was weaker because of seasonal factor s tied to routine maintenance. 
 
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO 
Summary . Economic activity in the Seventh District  expanded in March, but at an even 
more sluggish pace than in the previous reporting period.  Consumer and business spending 
softened.  Labor market conditions weakened in  general, although they continued to vary by 
industry and location.  Residen tial and nonresidential constructi on slowed, as did manufacturing 
outside of export-oriented businesses and the steel industry.  Consumer  lending declined, but 
business lending remained strong.  There were more  reports of difficulty in obtaining credit, and 
these were not limited to the real estate market.  Cost pressures from ri sing material and energy 
prices increased from the previous  period, while wage pressures remain ed low.  Corn prices set new 
records, while soybean prices declined from recent highs.  
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending in the Distri ct was sluggish in March. Higher 
energy prices and poor weather contributed to w eaker retail sales overall, despite reports of 
continued strength in the demand for luxury items.  A Michigan contact noted that tourism and 
business travel were slow in March, with a negative effect on retail ac tivity as a result.  However, an 
Illinois contact reported that hote l business remained strong, in pa rt due to foreign demand from 
business travelers and the favorable exchange rate. Sales of automobiles varied across the District, 
but, overall, remained weak in Ma rch.  Tighter auto loan standard s were reported to be having an 
effect on vehicle demand.  Deal ers reported only a limited impact  on inventory levels from the 
ongoing American Axle strike.  Activity in serv ice departments and sales of auto parts were 
sustaining business for many dealers.   
Business spending. The pace of business spending was down slightly from the previous 
reporting period.  A heavy machiner y manufacturer reported further investment in research and 
development and in capacity.  In contrast, cont acts in the automotive and financial services 
industries reported reducing capital expenditures.  Overall, employme nt conditions in the District 
weakened, with Michigan continuing to lag behind the other District states.  Information technology, sales, and health care remained br ight spots for hiring, while the manufacturing, 
construction, automotive and financial services i ndustries continued to repor t weak labor demand.  
The demand for skilled and professional workers remained strong, and shortages of such workers continued to be reported.  Staffing firms’ billable hours were stable and their job advertising activity 
was strong.  However, these firms have recently e xperienced some slowing in new placements, and 
 
 VII-2
one contact noted that small to mid-size client s were delaying annual commitments in light of 
concerns over near-term economic prospects.   
Construction/real estate . The pace of construction in the Di strict slowed from the previous 
reporting period.  Existing projects were moving forward, but new pr ojects were being delayed or 
cancelled.  Residential development and construction continued to fa ll, although the rate of decline 
slowed in some District states.  Excess inventory continued to be  reported in some areas of the 
District in both homes and condominiums.  Hous ing demand remained weak, apart from some gains 
in high-end and custom-built homes.  However, inqui ries were reported to have increased in March, 
particularly among first-time home b uyers.  Several contacts reported that lower prices for existing 
single-family homes were pressuring margins on new and spec homes, as builders found they 
needed to reduce prices in order to move invent ory. Residential rents were stable. Nonresidential 
development and construction grew slowly in Marc h, reflecting infrastructure projects such as 
roads, hospitals, and churches as well as restau rants, gas stations, and hotels.  Office and retail 
construction growth remained steady for most of th e District; however, contacts in some District 
states reported excess capacity in these sectors and indicated that vacancy rates were rising.   
Manufacturing . Manufacturing activity continued to gr ow in the District, but at a weaker 
pace in March. Demand for most forms of heavy equipment declined, but demand for aircraft and 
energy extraction and mining equipment continued to be robust.  Manufacturers in several 
industries again reported strength in exports. Domestic steel production continued its strong growth, 
aided by advantageous terms of trade.  Soft dema nd continued to affect ma nufacturers with close 
ties to residential housin g. For example, one contact in the building materials industry reported 
plans to implement work force reductions and was delaying plans for adding capacity.  Automakers 
reported that sales in the early part of the year  were slightly above e xpectations, but expressed 
concern that higher gasoline prices would reduc e demand going forward.  Several contacts noted 
that the American Axle strike wa s beginning to adversely impact thei r business.  A contact reported 
that layoffs in the automotive industry were sligh tly lower than expected in March; however, an 
auto supplier reported plans to move  from two shifts to one at an Illinois plant in the near future. 
Banking/finance . Credit market conditions in the Distri ct were variable in March, but were 
little changed overall from the previous reporting period.  Consum er loan demand continued to 
decline.  Lenders tightened standards on loans to  households with continue d concerns about loan 
quality.  Home equity loans were steady, while home  equity lines of credit declined.  Mortgage 
refinancing activity increased substantially.  Howe ver, mortgage originations remained low and 
 
 VII-3
standards continued to tighten, with contacts reporting that lending was concentrated among low-
risk borrowers and conforming mortgage produc ts.  Business loan demand remained strong, 
particularly for commercial and industrial loans.  However, st andards continued to tighten, and 
concerns about the commercial real estate sector lim ited the availability of credit to this market.  A 
contact in this industry reported continued unwillingness on the part of  traditional lenders to finance 
new projects.  In addition, contac ts in retailing reported financing difficulties, because banks were 
tightening standards on exis ting lines of credit.   
Prices/costs . Costs rose for a variety of inputs fr om the previous reporting period, including 
energy-related products and raw mate rials such as metals and cement.   Several contacts reported 
that rising diesel fuel prices were leading some small trucking firms to go out of business and others 
to reduce activity as fuel surcharg es were insufficient to cover cost s.  A contact in the construction 
industry reported that wallboard prices had declined to the de gree that they no longer covered 
production costs.  Many contacts cite d the rising price of steel as a significant factor in their costs.  
Wage pressures were limited outside of the skilled labor positions that continue to experience 
shortages.  A staffing firm reported some recent softening in pay rates for temporary services 
employment.  In contrast, a construction contact cited union wage contracts and a manufacturing 
contact indicated health care as factors boosting their respective labor costs. 
Agriculture . During March and early April, corn prices climbed to ne w highs (in nominal 
terms) while soybean prices retreated from r ecent highs.  Contacts repor ted that these price 
developments may result in a smaller decline in  corn planting and a more modest increase in 
soybean acres this spring than had been anticipated. For both corn and soybeans, substantially higher input costs, including prem iums for crop insurance, have in creased breakeven prices for the 
current growing season. Furthermore, farmers found it more difficult to engage in forward contracts, as grain elevators faced margin calls  due to higher futures prices. Winter snows and 
recent cool weather and precipitation delayed field preparations for planting in much of the District, though applications of fertilizer th is past fall should partially compen sate for the delay. Lower milk, 
hog, and cattle prices combined with higher feed costs reduced margins for dairy and livestock 
producers. Hog operations seemed to be hit hardest.  There were some reports that depleted cash 
reserves were creating a demand for loans, but th at lenders were not willing to meet this demand. 
 
 
 
 VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
Economic activity in the Eighth District ha s slowed slightly since our previous 
report.  Although manufacturing activity has remained roughly flat, contacts’ reports 
indicate continued softening in the services sector.  Retail sales in February and early 
March declined compared with the same m onths in 2007.  Auto sales remained largely 
unchanged over the same period.  Home sales and residential construction continued to 
weaken throughout the District, but commercial real estate conditions remained 
favorable.  Overall lending activity at a samp le of small and mid-sized banks increased 
slightly during the first quarter of 2008. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity has remained steady since our previous report.  There was 
roughly the same number of announcements of plans to open plants and expand 
operations in the near future as announcemen ts of plans to close plants and reduce 
operations.  Firms in chemical manufacturing and motor vehicle parts manufacturing 
reported plans to open new facilities in the Di strict and hire workers.  A contact in 
apparel manufacturing reported plans to hire a dditional workers.  In contrast, contacts in 
furniture manufacturing reported plans to lay off workers.  A firm in motor vehicle 
manufacturing idled production.  Firm s in wood product manufacturing and 
transportation equipment manufacturing announced  that they will close plants in the 
District. 
The District's services sector has continue d to soften since our previous report.  
On the positive side, contacts in business s upport services and transportation services 
 VIII-2 
announced plans to expand facilities and hire additional workers.  However, a larger 
number of firms reported plans to close facilities and lay off workers.  Contacts in 
financial services reported plans to close facilities and lay off a large number of workers; job losses were also reported in educational services and publishing.  In addition, general and big box retailers reported sales decreases in February and early March of 2008 compared with the same period in 2007.  Auto  sales in February and early March were 
roughly the same compared with a year a go, although smaller dealers experienced some 
decreases.  
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales continued to decline throughout the Eighth District.  Compared with 
the same period in 2007, February 2008 year-to-date home sales were down 17 percent in 
Memphis, 13 percent in St. Louis, 16 percent in Little Rock, and 14 percent in Louisville.  
Residential construction also continued to decline throughout the District.  February 2008 
year-to-date single-family housing permits fell in nearly all District metro areas 
compared with the same period in 2007.  Pe rmits declined 56 percent in Memphis, 32 
percent in St. Louis, 20 percent in Little Rock, and 15 percent in Louisville. 
Commercial real estate construction is active throughout the District.  However, 
some contacts noted that commercial leasing may be slowing.  A contact in northeast 
Arkansas reported that light commercial construction in general is holding steady and is quite active in some locations.  A contact in south central Kentucky reported that the 
commercial market in the Bowling Green  area continues to grow.  Commercial 
contracting contacts in Memphis reported th at their business outlook is positive for the 
next twelve months.  A contact reported that  commercial real estate leasing in central 
 VIII-3 
Arkansas has become sluggish.  A contact in Louisville reported that commercial and 
industrial construction continues at a strong pace, although there have been delays on 
several large projects. 
Banking and Finance 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of  small and mid-sized District banks 
increased 0.5 percent during the first quarter of 2008.  Real estate lending, which makes 
up 74.3 percent of total loans, increased 0.4 percent.  Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 16.7 percent of total loans, incr eased 0.4 percent.  Loans to individuals, 
accounting for 4.9 percent of total loans, in creased 1.5 percent.  All other loans, 
approximately 4.1 percent of total loans, incr eased 2.1 percent.  Over this period, total 
deposits at these banks fell 2.9 percent. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Total winter wheat acreage in 2008 incr eased by 23 percent from 2007, and most 
of each District state's crop was reported to be in fair or better condition in March.  
However, flooding in many areas of the Distri ct toward the end of March caused some 
winter wheat loss, and damage continues to be assessed in some areas.  Farmers in the 
District reported that they expect to plant 10 percent fewer acres of corn in 2008 than in 
2007.  Similarly, they expect to plant 22 pe rcent fewer acres of sorghum, 30 percent 
fewer acres of cotton, and 3 percent fewer acres of tobacco than last year.  In contrast, 
they anticipate planting 15 percent more acres of soybeans than last year and 1 percent 
more acres of rice.   
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
Overall activity in the Ninth District economy appears to have slowed slightly since the 
last report. Decreased activity was noted in residential construction and real estate, and 
consumer spending was soft. Mixed activity was noted in manufacturing and commercial 
real estate, while commercial construction a nd energy were steady. Growth was noted in 
services, tourism, mining and agriculture.  Overall, employment markets softened 
somewhat since the last report, while wage  increases were moderate. Significant price 
increases were noted for food, fuel and steel. 
 Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Overall consumer spending was soft. A major Minneapolis-based reta iler reported same-
store sales in February were up 0.5 percent (e ssentially unchanged) compared with a year 
earlier. Recent traffic and sales at a Minneapolis  area mall were consistent with last year. 
Some retailers reported plans to close stores. A chain of do llar stores recently announced 
plans to close locations in Minnesota and South Dakota; profit margins were squeezed 
due to increases in the cost of food and fuel . A buffet restaurant chain based in Minnesota 
announced plans to close 51 restaurants, wh ile a leather goods reta iler also based in 
Minnesota announced plans to close more than ha lf of its mall stores. In contrast, a North 
Dakota mall manager noted that first quarter sales were strong. February traffic at a 
Montana mall was up 7 percent, and sales were on par with a year ago. 
A representative of an auto dealers asso ciation noted that sales levels were 
favorable in many parts of South Dakota. A Minn esota auto dealer repo rted solid sales of 
imports during March compared with last year and said dom estic sales were holding their 
own; however, sales of SUVs and trucks were down. A domestic auto dealer in 
Minnesota reported that recent sales were slow.  
 Tourism activity increased. Convention busin ess in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area 
was up from a year ago, while recent hotel occu pancy was flat; officials noted an increase 
in Canadian and other foreign visitors due in  part to favorable exchange rates. Buoyed by 
an early Easter holiday, a Minnesota ski resort reported strong ski activity and lodging 
levels during March compared with a year ago. 
Services 
Reports from the professional business services sector were generally positive. Several accountants reported a slight uptick in busine ss compared with last  year. Contacts from 
IX-2 
the information technology area reported a weak February bu t a pickup in March. Several 
marketing firms reported flat activity in  March. Firms supporting manufacturers said 
activity was level. However, firms servici ng the financial sector reported a slowdown.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction continued at a steady pace. A commercial builder in Minnesota 
and Wisconsin said retail and office construction was steady, but light industrial and 
infrastructure construction was slow. An execu tive of a commercial builders association 
in South Dakota said constr uction activity there was stil l strong. A St. Paul suburb 
recently approved plans for a 575,000-square-foot  corporate campus. Bidding began on a 
$28 million National Guard training center in De vils Lake, N.D. Meanwhile, residential 
construction was slow. March new home perm its were down more than 40 percent in 
value in Sioux Falls, S.D., from the previous year. February year-to-date residential permits were down in Fargo, N.D., and Rochester, Minn.  Commercial real estate wa s mixed. A commercial real es tate firm in Minneapolis-
St. Paul reported higher office vacancy and lo wer absorption in the first quarter of 2008; 
the same report showed vacancy was higher for industrial properties and flat for retail, while absorption for both fell. A number of office properties in downtown Minneapolis 
have recently been placed on the market, including one package totaling more than 2 
million square feet. A commercial real estate developer in Fargo characterized the market 
there as growing steadily. Residential real  estate was weak. Pending sales in the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul area were down 15 per cent at the end of Ma rch from year-earlier 
levels; prices were down significantly. A Realtor in Sioux Falls said sales there were down slightly in the early part of the y ear, but he expects a healthy selling season.  
Manufacturing Overall manufacturing activity was mixed sin ce the last report. A March survey of 
purchasing managers by Creighton Universi ty (Omaha, Neb.) indicated decreased 
activity in Minnesota and increased ma nufacturing activity in the Dakotas. A 
representative of a wood products company with plants in western Wisconsin and the 
Upper Peninsula of Michigan reported very  poor demand.  A wind tu rbine maker plans to 
build a facility in Montana.   
IX-3 
Energy and Mining 
Activity in the energy sector remained at soli d levels since the last report, while mining 
increased. Robust oil and gas exploration a nd production continued in  the District. Wind 
power continued to expand. However, biofuel output decreased as a plant shut down because of higher soybean costs. Expansion of the mining industry is under way as 
exploration and permitting activity continued across the District.   
Agriculture 
Agricultural conditions were favorable across most of the District. Primarily due to 
increased relative prices and i nput costs, farmers plan to plant more soybeans and wheat 
and less corn this year. Ample mo isture conditions were evident in the eastern part of the 
District, while dry conditions prevailed in the west. Meanwhile, cattle, dairy and poultry 
producers were concerned about rising feed costs. Employment, Wages and Prices Employment markets softened somewhat since the last report. In Minnesota a 
thermoplastic products facility will close, affecting 350 jobs, and a newspaper recently 
announced plans to cut more than 10 per cent of its positions. A telecommunications 
company plans to reduce payroll in the Dist rict due to decreases in demand for local 
phone service. The number of active unemployment insurance claims in Minnesota was 
up 8 percent in mid-March compared with a ye ar ago. In contrast, a software services 
company plans to move to South Dakota this  spring, which could eventually create 200 
jobs. A new research facility recently bega n staffing up to 100 positions in Montana.  
Overall wage increases were moderate. A ccording to respondents to a recent St. 
Cloud (Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, 37 percent expect employee compensation 
to increase over the next six months, down from 46 percent in last year's survey. A 
county board in Minnesota recently agreed to raise most workers’ pay 3 percent annually 
over the next three years.  
Significant price increases were noted fo r food, fuel and steel. A bakery in the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul area recently  raised prices 10 percent on many products in part due to 
increases in the costs of flour and eggs. Ga soline prices in Minnesota were 60 cents per 
gallon higher in late March than a year earlie r. Recent price increases were reported for 
steel and copper products.  
 
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
Economic growth in the Tenth District continued to slow, with gains largely limited to 
energy- and agriculture-focused re gions.  Consumer spending was flat on net since February and 
manufacturing activity slowed furthe r.  Residential real estate activity remained weak, with some 
exceptions in energy-producing re gions.  Commercial real estate  activity also slowed, with 
reports of recent municipal bond problems potentia lly reducing the scope of planned projects.  
High commodity prices continued to bolster the energy and agricu ltural sectors.  Labor markets 
slowed, but continued to show gr owth.  Reports of wage pressures continued to be lower than 
last year, but price pressures were reported at many stages of production. 
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending remained flat overall since February.  
Retailers’ reports were balanced between grow th and contraction on the month, but generally 
pointed to lower sales than a year  ago.   Mall traffic was reported  to be down and slower sales 
were partly attributed to higher gasoline prices.  Retailers exp ected business activity to recover 
somewhat in the coming months but felt inventory levels would rise further.  While still down 
from last year, auto dealers re ported a rebound in March sales, partly driven by incentives.  
Travel and tourism activity remained solid wi th higher average room rates reported in many 
areas.  Restaurants reported higher sales compared to last month though the average check amount was unchanged.  
Manufacturing.  Manufacturing activity continued to slow in March, but modest 
expansion was expected in coming months.  Dist rict plants reported lo wer production levels and 
a substantial decrease in new or ders. A capital goods producer reporte d that firms appeared to be 
“hunkering down” to avoid exposure in a volatile marketplace.  Employment expectations 
dropped further as well.  On a positive note, export ers’ expectations for orders rose in response 
to the weaker dollar.  However, one exporter repo rted shipping backlogs due to a lack of ocean-
going shipping containers and tight railroad transportation to ports. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity was flat from the last report 
 
 X-2  
and commercial real estate activity was stable in March.  Inventories remained high and sales 
were below last year’s level, but were expect ed to improve seasonally. A major Colorado Realtor 
reported that activity in the “move-up” market re mained weak, while overall activity was flat.  
Home prices continued to edge down in most areas, with the exception of some agricultural and 
energy intensive areas.  Commercial  real estate sales dipped compar ed to the previous period, but 
construction was up from both mont h- and year-ago levels.  Comm ercial vacancy rates in the 
District remained stable; however, commercial realtors anticipated rising absorption rates.  Rents 
continue to move higher when leases terminate.  Developers noted economic uncertainty and 
stricter underwriting standards have lengthened the approval pr ocess for new projects.  The 
recent difficulties in municipal bond markets were  also reportedly raising the costs for public 
projects and causing some proj ects to be scaled back. 
Banking.  Bankers reported tighter credit standards and slightly weaker loan demand than 
in the previous survey but were somewhat less pessimistic about future  loan quality.  Demand 
declined modestly for consumer installment lo ans but remained essentially unchanged in other 
categories.   A little less than half of responde nts reported a tightening of credit standards for 
commercial real estate loans, about  the same fraction as in the prev ious survey.   There were also 
some reports of tightened standards for commercial and industrial loans,  consumer installment 
loans, and residential real estate  loans.   About the same fracti on of banks as in the previous 
survey reported that overall loan quality was down from a year ago.  However, a somewhat 
smaller fraction of respondents e xpected loan quality to decline over the next six months.  For 
the first time in several surveys, bank deposits  improved moderately, le d by gains in interest-
bearing checking accounts and m oney market deposit accounts. 
Energy.  District energy activity showed continued growth in March.  Respondents 
reported increased drilling activity from the la st survey.  Oklahoma and Colorado showed the 
strongest growth in the number of active drilling rigs during the period.  Firms again reported 
that drilling was being constrained by the lack  of qualified labor, but the companies did not 
 
 X-3  
expect to raise wages in order to attract workers.  Credit cond itions remained favorable in the 
industry, and contacts continued to expect further growth in activity. 
Agriculture.    Agricultural conditions remained fa vorable since the last survey period.  
The winter wheat crop was reported in good conditi on, except in extremely dry areas of Kansas 
and Oklahoma.  District contacts reported a sh ift in crop mix that re duces corn acreage and 
increases soybean plantings.  The switch was attr ibuted to relatively high soybean prices and 
higher corn production costs, as  well as typical rotations for soil management and crop 
productivity.  Livestock producers c ontinued to lose money due to higher feed costs.  A number 
of mid-sized feedlots we re reported to be at risk for fa ilure.  Funds availability for the 
agricultural sector remained healthy and loan demand and ca pital spending was robust.  
Farmland values continued to rise at a brisk pace. 
Wages and Prices.  Price pressures intensif ied in March but wage pressures were steady. 
District factories reporte d paying higher prices for raw material s, noting increases in metal prices 
and agricultural commodity prices in particul ar.  Manufacturers report ed more finished goods 
price increases than in previous surveys and e xpected additional increases in coming months.  
However, some factories experienced difficultie s passing higher costs on to customers, given 
weakened demand in some industries.  Builders reported that high fuel costs were raising the cost 
of wood products and roofing mate rials.  Restaurants reported higher food costs and planned to 
raise menu prices in the future.  Yet retail pr ice reports showed no substantial change.  The 
number of firms reporting wage pressures and di fficulty hiring workers was little changed over 
the month, but still below last year. District hiring announcements continued to outpace layoff 
announcements and on net employment  in the region likely grew.  
 
 XI-1
 
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS 
The Eleventh District economic expansion softened  further in March and early April. Numerous 
contacts who do business nationally say growth in Texas is outperforming the rest of the country. Factory 
production declined, and there were a few reports of temporary and permanent plant closings. Service sector 
growth was mixed and generally weaker than reporte d in the last Beige Book. Retail sales were below 
expectations. Construction and real estate markets con tinued to soften. Financial-service firms are cautious 
about lending, but competition remained  stiff for deposits and quality loans. Energy activity was still strong. 
Agricultural conditions improved.  
Business leaders expressed concern that negativ e reports about the economy will affect future 
activity. A high level of uncertainty has led some fi rms to pare down investme nt and be cautious about 
staffing levels. Several manufacturing and service firms reported a deterioration in receivables. 
Prices.  A continuation of upward cost pressures preva ils in the markets for many inputs, including 
fuel, packaging, shipping and raw materials, such as copper, aluminum, steel and liner board. Contacts said declines in the value of the dollar c ontributed to increases in the cost of imported goods and raw materials. 
Competitive pressures have forced most manufacturers to absorb some or all of the cost increases, but many 
service firms are able to raise fares, fees and prices.  
Domestic demand for crude oil has been the weakest  since 2003, but West Texas Intermediate Crude 
oil prices moved between $100 and $110 per barrel during the period. Gasoline prices are up about 25 cents over the past six weeks, and diesel prices are up 57 cents. Natural gas prices moved from $8 to near $10 per 
million Btu. High oil prices and some unplanned outages pushed ethylene and propylene prices up sharply. 
Downstream plastics producers also increased prices.   
High inventories are pushing down selling prices for materials supplying residential construction, 
such as brick, stone and glass. Oversupply of semiconductor memory chips has put downward pressure on 
the prices of products and equipment that utilize these chips.   
 
 XI-2
 
Labor Market. There were more reports of layoffs in manufacturing, but the overall labor market 
remained tight. There is still a shortage of skilled workers, particularly higher skilled positions, such as mid-
level executives and experienced engineers. Some contacts say tighter enforcement of immigration laws has 
led to scattered farm labor shortages, not ably for harvesting vegetables and fruit.  
Manufacturing . Demand for materials to supply resi dential construction remained soft—
significantly below a year ago—and weaker than expect ed. Inventory levels are high, and manufacturers are 
cutting back on production and staff levels. Sales of  materials to supply commercial construction have 
softened some. Demand for paper w as slower than normal. Food producer s said sales have been better than 
expected. Transportation manufacturers supplying the defense industry reported continued strong demand, 
but other sales have slowed.  
Excess inventory in the high-tech industry has led manufacturers to reduce production. Sales of 
equipment are down significantly over the past month a nd are expected to be weak through 2008. A large 
inventory of memory chips is pushing down prices. Contact s say there is a great deal of uncertainty, and they 
are unclear how much the slow down in orders is th e result of inventory reductions or weakening demand. 
Soft domestic demand and rising energy prices dampened petrochemical and plastic production. 
Refineries cut production in response to the highest ga soline inventories in 15 years. Gasoline demand is 
running 1.5 percent below levels of a year ago.  
Retail Sales.  Retail sales were weaker than expected, but national retailers said Texas sales are 
outperforming the rest of the country. Firms that offe r credit noted an increase in delinquencies. Auto sales 
remained steady overall, with the strongest sales volumes for fuel-efficient cars. Rebates have softened prices 
somewhat, according to dealers, who say that financing is  readily available to first-time buyers, even though 
some lenders have stopped making auto loans. 
Services. Orders for temporary staffing services improved from the last report and were better than a 
year ago. Activity was strongest for positions in the service sector, particularly in IT and engineering, but 
activity to support manufacturing was sluggish. Temporar y staffing firms say fees have been rising. 
 
 XI-3
 
 Legal firms reported an increase in bankruptcy and litigation work. Demand for legal services to 
support transactions fell some but remained strong to th e oil and gas industry. Real estate-related activity has 
dried up. There was little change in demand for accounting services.  
Shipping activity weakened, and firms are less optimistic about the outlook for the next few months. 
Import volumes continued to fall and are not being co mpletely offset by exports. Airlines say domestic 
demand has been slightly muted by concerns about the economy, but advance bookings are holding up well. 
Carriers are cutting capacity as a precautionary measure. Fuel costs are putting upward pressure on fares.   
Construction and Real Estate.  Sales of new and existing homes continued to edge down and were 
below expectations. Contacts attributed lower dema nd to eroding consumer sentiment and the absence of 
subprime lending. Builders have cut back construction,  resulting in a drop in the number of unsold finished 
homes. Apartment demand remained solid but slightly under expectations.  
Commercial activity was mixed. Demand for industr ial space is waning, and contacts said warehouse 
inventory has increased, particularly at intermodal facilities. Demand for offi ce space was stronger than 
expected, but sales and investment dropped significantl y. The decline of the commercial mortgage-backed 
securities market has led to difficulty completing transac tions, according to industry leaders, who say there is 
no competition among lenders and little debt liquidity in the market.   
Financial Services. Lending remained soft, and some respondents said uncertainty has led potential 
investment funds to wait on the sidelines. Financial ser vice firms said loans are being evaluated with greater 
scrutiny to be sure they are well-collateralized. There is much more caution with real estate and mortgage 
loans. There is aggressive competition for deposits and a shift towards longer-maturity deposits that are more 
expensive for banks. Net interest margins are being s queezed, particularly for small-to-midsize financial 
institutions, and many respondents say they cannot take deposit rates much lower.  
Energy.  Drilling remained strong, with domestic activity increasing to the highest number of rigs 
working in the current expansion. Natural gas production w as reported to be 8 percent higher than a year ago.  
 
 XI-4
 
Agriculture.  Planting conditions have improved, although some parts of the District remain 
unusually dry. High crop prices are offsetting high fuel, fertilizer and production costs. Supplemental feeding 
of livestock continues in most areas, and feed costs are high.  
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District appe ars to have been largely flat on net during 
the survey period of March through the beginning of April.  Upward pressures on labor costs 
continued to moderate in some sectors, while  upward price pressures were subdued for most 
products but remained strong for food and energy-int ensive items.  Retail sales weakened further 
and demand growth for services continued to slow.  Manufacturing activity was mixed across 
sectors but appeared to hold steady on net, while agricultural producers saw solid growth in 
sales.  Demand for residential real estate  remained exceptionally weak, and demand for 
commercial real estate softened a bit in some ar eas.  Banking contacts re ported that loan demand 
was largely unchanged or fell slightly on net and credit standards tightened further. 
Wages and Prices 
 Price inflation was modest overall, but upward pressures remained strong for food and 
energy products.  Final prices we re stable or down for most re tail items, and prices fell further 
for selected building materials, especially wood products.  By contrast, high prices for energy-
related inputs and some raw materials, such as  steel and resin, created upward pressures on final 
prices for transportation services and assorted  categories of manufactur ed and agricultural 
products.  Prices for various agricultural co mmodities and food continued to rise rapidly. 
 Wage pressures were modest in general, with contacts noting only small increases in 
overall labor costs.  Upward wage pressures mode rated further in sectors that have seen reduced 
labor demand in recent months, such as constructi on, retail, finance, and r eal estate.  However, 
wage increases remained rapid for engineers and other highly skilled technical workers in 
selected manufacturing industries, such as aero space, and in computer and software services.   
XII - 2 
Retail Trade and Services  
 Retail sales continued to soften.  The pace of sales slowed at department stores and for a 
variety of smaller retail chains, ca using inventories to rise furthe r above desired levels and some 
retailers to cancel orders fo r new goods.  Discount chains repo rtedly performed better than 
traditional department stores, although one contact pointed to a surprising degree of strength for 
luxury goods.  The volume of gasoline sales wa s reported to be down significantly compared 
with 12 months earlier.  Sales of new automobiles and light trucks were very slow for both imported and domestic makes, and demand for us ed vehicles weakened significantly, with one 
report pointing to a “collapse” in March. 
 Demand growth for service providers eased overall.  Growth continued at a moderate 
pace for providers of health-care services.  However,  for providers of real estate services, such as 
title insurance, activity remained at very low leve ls and contacts reported  significant contractions 
in employment.  Demand for advertising has been  on a downward trend, and contacts in software 
services reported that sales slowed as busin esses scaled back their spending on information 
technology equipment.  Travel and tourism activ ity rebounded a bit in Hawaii, with gains in 
visitor counts and spending evident relative to 12 months earlier.  By contrast, in Southern 
California, hotel bookings for the spring and summ er have been running significantly below their 
levels from last year, and in Nevada casino revenu es recently recorded th eir slowest growth rate 
in four years. 
Manufacturing 
 District manufacturing activity was mixed across sectors but appeared to hold steady on 
net during the survey period of March through the beginning of Ap ril.  Production activity and 
new orders remained strong for makers of comm ercial aircraft and aerospace products used for 
XII - 3 
national defense.  Semiconductor manufacturer s reported moderate growth in revenues 
accompanied by balanced inventories and high rates of capacity utilization, with solid growth in 
unit sales propelled in part by robust overseas demand.  Demand growth for food manufacturers 
reportedly ranged from moderate to strong.  By contrast, lumber  mills continued to curtail 
production and shed jobs in the Pacific Northwes t, and demand remained weak for District 
apparel makers.  
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand and sales grew further for agricultura l products.  Solid growth in domestic and 
overseas sales pushed revenues higher for a variety of tree and row crops and also for livestock, 
although these gains were partly offset by cost increases arising from higher prices for grain, 
fertilizer, and petroleum-based i nputs in general.  Contacts in  Southern California reported 
concern over pending cuts in water deliveries caused by a prolonged drought in the Colorado 
River Basin, which may cu rtail spring plantings. 
Real Estate and Construction 
 
 Conditions in District housing markets re mained exceptionally weak during the survey 
period, while demand for nonresidential real estate  eased a bit further.  Demand for new and 
existing homes was very weak, and contacts re ported rising foreclosur e rates in parts of 
California, Nevada, and Arizona.  Prices continued to fall noticeably in the weakest areas, and 
they have flattened or begun to fall in other areas  that had shown resilience well into 2007, such 
as Utah and parts of the Pacific Northwest.  On the nonresidential side , activity slowed a bit 
further.  Contacts reported reduced demand and lower prices for commercial properties in the 
San Francisco Bay Area, further increases in commercial vacancy rates in Las Vegas, and 
sluggish nonresidential construction activity in the San Diego area. 
XII - 4 
Financial Institutions 
 Reports from District banki ng contacts suggest that lending activity was largely flat or 
fell slightly relative to the previous survey period.  Reports  on commercial and industrial lending 
were mixed, with little change reported in some  areas and declines repor ted in others, suggesting 
a slight decline on net.  Refinancing activity fo r home mortgages picked up a bit further, but 
demand for new mortgages remained at very lo w levels.  Lending standards remained quite 
restrictive for residential mortga ges and construction loans and they tightened a bit further for 
consumer and business borrowers in general. 