For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T.         
Wednesday  
March 3, 2010   
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on  ____________________  
Current Economic 
Conditions  
By Federal Reserve District  
March 2010   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS  
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT  
 
MARCH  2010  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
 
SUMMARY... …………………………………… ..……..i  
First District – Boston………………………… ...…..…I -1 
Second District – New York………………… ...……...II -1 
Third District – Philadelphia…………………… ...…..III-1 
Fourth District – Cleveland……………… ...…… .…...IV -1 
Fifth District – Richmond…………………… ...…… ....V-1 
Sixth District – Atlanta…………………… ...…… .…..VI-1 
Seventh District – Chicago………………… ...….…...VII -1 
Eight District – St. Louis……………………… .....…VIII -1 
Ninth District – Minnea polis……………… ……… .….IX -1 
Tenth District – Kansas City…………………………. ...X-1 
Eleventh District – Dallas……………………………...XI -1 
Twelfth District – San Francisco……………………...XI I-1 
 
 i 
SUMMARY* 
 Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic conditions 
continued to expand since the last report , although severe snowstorms in early February held 
back activity in several Districts .  Nine Districts reported that economi c activity improved, but in 
most cases the increases were modest .  Overall conditions were described as mixed in the Atlanta 
and St. Louis Districts, though St. Louis noted further signs of improvement in some areas.  
Richmond r eported that economic activity slackened or remained soft across most sectors, due 
importantly  to especially severe February weather  in that region . 
Consumer spending improved slightly in many Districts since the last survey, but severe 
snowstorms in early Feb ruary limited activity in some Districts .  Tourist activity was reported as 
increased or mixed, with some  improvement in hotel occupancies.  The demand for services was 
generally positive  across Districts, most notably for health -care and information techn ology 
firms.   Of the five Districts reporting on transportation, three characterized activity as improved 
over the previous survey.   Manufacturing activity strengthened in most regions , particularly in 
the high -tech equipment, auto mobile , and metal ind ustries .  Residential real estate markets 
improved in a number  of Districts, although several Districts noted that act ivity softened or 
remained weak partly due to  extreme  winter weather.  Most Districts characterized commercial 
real estate and constru ction activity as weak or having declined further, but some Districts  noted 
slight stabilization and a few signs of modest improvement.   Loan demand remained weak , and 
lending standards remained tight across the country.   Harsh weather continued to negativ ely 
                                                
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and based on information collected on or before February 22, 
2010.  This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal 
Reserve and is not a commentary on th e views of Federal Reserve officials.  
 
 ii 
affect agricultural activity , although some District s reported favorable  crop conditions .  Districts 
reporting on energy activity said it continued to strengthen , particularly drilling for natural gas .   
 Price pressures were mostly limited, with the e xception of some  increases in raw 
materials prices.  Even with input costs rising, s elling prices remained stable due to competitive 
pressures and limited pricing power.  Although some Districts reported an uptick in hiring  or a 
slowdown in layoffs , labor markets generally  remained  soft throughout the nation, which 
resulted in minimal wage pressures.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
 Consumer spending showed signs of improvement in many Districts  since the last report 
but was hampered in several regions  by severe weather conditions in early February.  Retail sales 
improved in the Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, and New York said 
sales were well above year -ago levels in January and met expectations  in February despite 
inclement weather .  Philadelphia also reported that sales were moving up slowly until 
snowstorms hit in February.  Boston and Clevela nd characterized sales as mixed  but slightly 
higher  overall  than year ago levels.  Sales were lower than expected in the Atlanta and Kansas 
City Di stricts and were down from year -ago levels in the St. Louis District.  Several Districts 
reported that sales were strongest for lower -priced items, while sales of luxury and big ticket 
items remained sluggish.  However, San Francisco noted scattered  reports  of increased  
discretionary spending, and Cleveland said some retailers noted a broader, if still slight, increase 
in demand across a variety of products.  Inventories were being managed carefully and held at 
fairly low levels in most Districts, bu t Chicago said rising sales were leading retailers to begin 
rebuilding inventories from low levels.  
 iii 
 Auto sales were generally reported as flat or down, with a few Districts again noting that 
some of the sluggishness was likely due to poor weather  conditio ns.  New York, Cleveland, and 
San Francisco all noted some softening in new auto sales, though New York cited  brisk sales of 
used vehicles.  Chicago and Kansas City also reported declining auto sales, while Dallas noted 
some seasonal softness and Atlanta s aid sales remained weak .  Some Districts reported modest 
improv ement in auto credit conditions.  Cleveland noted that many consumers remain reliant on 
manufacturers’ incentives , and auto dealers  in the Chicago District blamed part of their recent 
sales dec line on reduced factory incentives . 
 Districts reporting on tourism said that activity was either rising or mixed since the last 
survey period.  Ski resorts in the Richmond and Kansas City Districts reported at least modest 
rebounds in activity from year -ago levels, while Minneapolis characterized  skier visits to a 
Montana resort as flat.  New York said hotel occupancies in Manhattan were up considerably 
from a year ago in January and Broadway theatre activity was robust before falling off due to 
weather in  February.  Atlanta also reported rising tourism activity related to several successful 
major  sporting events and a well -attended Mardi Gras in New Orleans.  San Francisco noted 
increases in visitors to Hawaii and Las Vegas and said hotel occupancies stabi lized  in some other 
areas . 
Nonfinancial Services  
Nonfinancial services activity was reported as steady or improved by the majority of 
Districts .  Boston, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported generally solid demand in 
health -care services, although Minneapolis noted continued weakness  in elective procedures .   
New York indicated  that a growing number of service firms planned to increase  capital spending 
in the months ahead, but investment expectations diminished among high -tech companies in  the 
 iv 
Kansas City  District .  Richmond reported that service revenues fell due to the record 
snowstorms, but a few contacts saw a slight pick up in demand, particularly  architectural firms, 
hospitals, and financial service professionals.   
In transportation services , Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City reported an improvement 
in activity since the last survey , while Dallas  said activity  was mixed  and St. Louis noted large 
job cuts in the industry .  Regional rail loadings were above year -ago levels in the Atlanta 
District, especially  for autos, chemicals, metals, and some construction -related equipment.  
Intermodal firms in the Dallas District repo rted no change in cargo volumes, with a rise in 
exports being offset by a decline in imports.  Although shipping volumes increased, Cleveland 
noted  that margins remain ed depressed due to over-capacity issues, limiting investment in new 
trucks .   
Manufactur ing  
Manufacturing activity increased further in most Districts, although Minneapolis, Dallas, 
and San Francisco characterized overall activity as flat or mixed .  Philadelphia reported 
widespread production increases across most  industries, and manufacturers in the Cleveland 
District reported a general rise in capacity utilization.  Many Districts reported strong production 
in metals , and the Boston, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted strength in  high-tech 
equipment, parti cularly semiconductors.  Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas noted solid 
improvemen ts in auto -related manufacturing.  A consumer goods company in the Boston  District  
said European  sales were at healthier levels.  C ontacts in the  Chicago  District  reported strong 
growth in Asian exports  but remained concerned about China’s underlying economic strength .  
Dallas reported that exports for natural -gas based products  remain ed strong, but weak  demand 
for refined products has trimmed  margins and cut capacity u tilization  further .  Construction -
 v 
related activity remained weak in the Chicago and Dallas Districts, and new orders for  
commercial  aircraft and parts  were sluggish  in the San Francisco  District .  Philadelphia and 
Richmond noted productions delays due to the winte r snowstorms in February, but some 
factories were able to make up the losses with longer work hours and extended shifts.  Several 
manufacturers  in the Philadelphia District said production gains could be limited due to 
continued tightening in credit market s and adverse developments in taxes and regulations.   Plant 
managers in  a few Districts reported that a large number of customers  were simply  restocking  
inventories, leading to  concerns about the sustainability of the increase .  However, contacts  in 
most Districts  remained optimistic for future months, with several  reports of planned increases in 
capital spending .   
Real Estate and Construction  
Residential real estate markets improved  in a number of Districts, remained weak or 
softened further in th e New York, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts , was little changed in the San 
Francisco District, and characterized as mixed in the St. Louis District .  Richmond  also reported 
overall housing activity as mixed, but one  contact noted that absent the harsh weather, market 
conditions might have improved.  Adverse weather conditions also hampered home sales and 
construct ion in the  New York, Philadelphia, and Atlanta Districts.  Most Districts attributed 
stronger home sales to the home -buyer tax credit, with several contacts apprehensive about 
future sales once the credit expires on April 30.   Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kans as City, and 
Dallas reported that s ales were strongest for low -priced and starter homes, while  Dallas cited 
financing difficulties for high -end homes.   Home construction was down or stagnant in most 
Districts, with the exception of  the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas  Districts .  Atlanta said 
the most pronounced weakness  was among Georgia homebuilders, and San Francisco attributed 
 vi 
weak construction activity to elevated home inventory levels.  Home prices mostly remained flat 
or declined slightly , but si gns of improvement were noted in the Boston and San Francisco 
Districts.  A real estate agent in  a relatively upscale area of  the New York District said  prices 
have continued to drift downward  but that short sales were relatively rare  and most transactions 
were  still above the mortgag e balance .  
Commercial real estate conditions remained weak or declined further in most Districts, 
although  some  Districts noted  slight  stabilization or modest signs of improvement.  Commercial 
real estate activity weakened  in the Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Districts, though Dallas noted  that leasing fell at a slower rate and San Francisco cited  
increased leasing in some segments.  Boston and Philadelphia said conditions remain weak, but 
both noted some improvement in sales of commercial space.  New York reported softer activity 
in the New York City area but some steadying  in vacancies and rents  elsewhere, while St. Louis 
said activity remained weak throughout the District.  Several Districts also noted  that many 
tenants were pushing for, and in some cases receiving, concessions on rents.  All Districts 
reporting on commercial construction said that activity remained weak or slow, except for some 
moderate boost from federal stimulus projects and other public constr uction.  Credit for 
commercial development and transactions was still very difficult to obtain  in several Districts , 
though San Francisco noted a slight improvement in financing availability.  
Banking and Finance  
 
 Loan demand remained weak  across the country .  New York, Cleveland, and Kansas City 
reported decreased d emand for most types of loans.  Other Districts said loan d emand was 
unchanged but soft.  Richmond and Chicago noted that the weak economic outlook was holding 
back loan demand,  and San Francisco said caution about hiring and spending plans was keeping 
 vii 
businesses from seeking credit.  However, Philadelphia and Richmond reported banks were 
receiving more inquiries from businesses about loans, and Dallas said contacts were hopeful that 
loan demand would pick up by the end of the year.  
 Most Districts indicated that banks remained cautious about lending.  New York, St. 
Louis, and Kansas City reported  somewhat  tighter credit standards on commercial real estate 
loans, and New York  noted  tighter standards for commercial and industrial loans.  In other 
Districts, credit standards were little changed but remained tight.  Atlanta reported that banks had 
ample liquidity but were reluctant to reduce cash reserves.  Chicago said a leveli ng in asset 
quality was causing large banks to become more interested in lending to prime borrowers, but 
strained balance sheets were holding back lending by mid -size banks.  In  the Dallas  District , 
smaller banks reported that regulatory requirements were limiting their ability to expand real 
estate lending.   Loan quality remained a concern but showed signs of stabilizing in some 
Districts.  New York , Dallas,  and San Francisco cited  further declines in loan quality.  In 
addition, banks in  the Philadelphia  and Kansas City  Districts  were reported to be slightly less 
pessimistic about future loan quality than in the previous survey.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
Harsh winter weather continued to dampen  overall  agricultural activity, although crop 
conditions  were  still generally favorable  in most Districts .  Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas 
reported  that livestock were stressed by severe weather and  that producers provided  
supplemental feed due to poor grazing conditions.  Atlanta commented that cold temperatures 
caused minor freeze damage to vegetable and citrus crops.  Despite below -average temperatures, 
Kansas City reported the winter wheat crop w as in generally good condition.  Dallas  and San 
Francisco said that heavy ra ins and snowfall improved soil moisture for this year’s crop 
 viii 
production, though  some contacts  were concerned that spring planting could be delayed if fields 
remain too wet.  Crop prices edged down following the bumper fall harvest, but Chicago noted 
that h igh-quality grain was selling at a premium, due i n part to strong export demand.  Hog and 
cattle prices strengthe ned and dairy prices were flat.  Kansas City noted stronger farm incomes 
from crop production, while agricultural lenders in the Minneapolis Di strict expected farm 
income and spending to decrease.  
Energy activity generally strengthened since the last survey period.  Kansas City and 
Dallas reported increased drilling activity, especially for natural gas , and Cleveland noted 
increased natural gas -related investment .  However, producers in the  Kansas City District  were 
concerned that a boost in supply from shale gas production could lower natural gas prices later in 
the year .  Minneapolis reported  that oil exploration expanded in February , while oil production 
was stable in the Atlanta and San Francisco  Districts.  Coal production in the Cleveland and 
Kansas City  Districts  remained below year -ago levels.  Minneapolis reported brisk activity in 
metal mining and continued  energy construction.  
Employmen t, Wages, and Prices  
The pace of layoffs slowed in most Districts , but hiring plans  still remained generally 
soft.  New York cited a slowdown in layoffs at a securities firm and  noted a pickup in hiring in 
what was still characterized as an exceptionally weak legal industry.  Staffing firms in the Boston 
District also saw a strengthening in demand , particularly from the financial and manufacturing 
sectors.  Several manufac turing and construction firms in the Cleveland District began recalling 
workers, and temporary staffing accelerated in the Richmond, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts.  
However, Chicago said demand for permanent workers was low, and  a manufacturing contact  in 
the Richmond District  held back employment due to productivity improvements.   Layoffs were 
 ix 
also reported at several retail and manufacturing firms in the Dallas District, and Minneapolis 
said companies in the medical insurance and fi nancial services indus tries reduced employment .  
Wage pressures were minimal, but Boston and Cleveland noted a lift in salary freezes  and 
Richmond said wages rose at service and retail businesses . 
The majority of Districts reported limited price pressures, although  several note d rising  
input costs  due to higher  commodities prices.   Boston, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas noted  an 
increase in me tals prices, particularly steel, and  Chicago  and Kansas City  said the upward 
pressure on  some  raw materials  prices was likely to continue .  Lumber prices rose in the 
Cleveland and Richmond Districts  due in large part  to weather -related supply issues.   On the 
other hand, San Francisco reported commodity prices were  stable or down, with declines in 
natural gas, copper, and aluminum  prices .  Some contacts in the Boston District said customers 
sought  fewer price concessions  from vendors in order  to better ensure reliable deliveries.   But 
nearly all Districts reported limited pricing power, with many firms unable to increase selling 
prices due  to competitive pressure.   Retail prices were stable in most Districts, although San 
Francisco noted heavy discounting.  Districts generally expected stable prices  overall  heading 
forward.  
  
 
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON  
Economic conditions continue to show  improv ement  in the First District . Respondents in the 
manufacturing, software and IT services, staffing, and residential real estate sectors indicate that demand 
continues to strengthen, with several manufacturing contacts citing better -than-anticipated i ncreases . 
Commercial real estate markets remain very weak , but respondents say they may  be stabilizing . 
Recession -imposed h iring and pay freezes are being removed and  prices are large ly steady.   
Retail  
Contacted retailers in the First District report mixed sales results for the early months of 2010 . 
Year -over-year s ame-store sales vary from negative mid single -digits to positive low double -digits . 
Respondents reporting growth attribute it in pa rt to consumers who continue to seek value -priced 
products, while contacts with softer sales attribute them  in part to recent inclement weather . All retail 
respondent s are cautious in their outlook.  
Contacts continue to manage inventory levels  carefully , with several retailers reporting decrease s 
from a  year earlier . Capital spending remains cautious ; a few contacts are considering favorable 
expansion opportunities  and others report plan s for store remodels or IT spending . First District retailers 
tell of  increasing headcount in line with new store openings  as well as  opportunistic hiring of talent . 
Wages remain mostly steady, although one respondent reports restoring bonuses and merit increases . 
Vendor and s elling prices are said to be stable .  
Manufactur ing and Related Services  
Most man ufactur ing and related services contacts headquartered in the First District report that 
demand continued to strengthen in early 2010, in some cases by more than they had anticipated just a few 
months earlier . Manufacturers  of semiconductors and related equipment report sharp snap -backs in 
orders, resulting in dramatic increases in backlogs, as well as some component shortages and production 
bottlenecks . An IT equipment maker indicates that demand continues to be strong in t he first quarter, 
resulting in an ample backlog . A food processing firm also says  that it is scrambling to meet customer 
demands for higher volumes and faster deliveries, while at  another consumer goods company , European 
sales in particular are ―racing bac k up‖ to healthier levels . Biopharmaceutical makers continue to report 
solid growth in sales . Some other respondents note that their customers remain cautious, but that sales are 
at least stabilizing after a period of considerable declines.  
 According to m ost responding manufacturers, input costs are largely holding steady . Metals 
prices are t he main exception , with some rising and others decreas ing. Most contacts are holding selling 
prices unchanged, except for a fe w that implemented increases of 2 percent  to 3 percent at the beginning 
of the year . Some respondents note that they or their customers are applying less pressure on vendors to 
make price concessions as a consequence of a growing emphasis on ensuring reliable deliveries.  
Most contacts plan to hol d domestic headcounts relatively steady or increase them somewhat in 
coming months . Only a few firms are planning staffing reductions in 2010 . Net hiring is concentrated on 
scientific, engineering, and other technical occupations . Manufacturers that had im plemented pay cuts 
have now mostly restored wages and salaries to their previous levels . Almost all respondents that had 
 
I - 2 
suspended 401(k) plan matches have resumed making matches or expect to do so shortly . 2010 merit pay 
increases are expected to be in th e range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent at most contacted companies.  
Most manufacturing respondents are planning to increase capital spending in 2010 . Many 
mention that they will be expanding their capacity to perform R&D or produce new products.  
Manufacturers  and related services providers describe themselves as either hopeful or optimistic 
about business conditions over the coming six to 12 months . However, contacts in the semiconductor 
industry express some concern that sales trends could weaken in the secon d half of 2010, given the 
unexpectedly vigorous pace of recovery in recent months.  
Software and Information Technology Services  
First District contacts in the software and information technology sectors largely report increased 
activity —ranging from slight  upticks to significant growth —through the end of Q4 2009 and into Q1 
2010; however, a few respondents caution that business conditions remain fragile and unpredictable. 
Contacts generally report increased demand across the board , including the financial, medical, and 
government sectors, although some corporate clients remain hesitant to spend money . One contact also 
notes that pricing pressure from competitors remains aggressive. While some firms have reduced 
headcount in recent months, others continue to add personnel; however, salary freezes from 2009 have 
been lifted, with anticipated merit increases generally in the 3 -percent to 5 -percent range . The outlook 
among New England software and IT contacts is more positive than in prior months, with 2010 large ly 
expected to be a growth year . Despite these improved expectations, the possibility of a double -dip 
recession or a slow recovery remains a major concern .  
Staffing Services  
The majority of New England staffing contacts report that business continues to s trengthen, 
although a few have experienced stagnant or volatile activity over the past three months . Yearly revenues 
for 2009 were generally 10 percent to 30 percent below 2008 revenues; however revenues continue to rise 
over-the-quarter. Labor demand has generally increased across industries, with notable improvements in 
the financial and manufacturing sectors . Increased a ctivity is also reported in t he medical, aerospace, and 
semi conductor industries. While the demand for direct hires remains depressed, s everal contacts noted 
increased conversion of temporary workers to permanent status . Labor supply remains plentiful, although 
candidate skills do not always meet client demand and an elongation of the hiring cycle persists . The 
downward pressure on bill ra tes throughout 2009 has lessened, and some applicants are no longer willing 
to accept lower pay rates. All First District staffing respondents anticipate improvement during 2010, with 
most expecting growth for the year to be in the 10 -percent to 20 -percent  range .  
Commercial Real Estate  
Contacts report  modest signs of improvement in commercial real estate markets across the region. 
In Boston, leasing activity  in January and early February , while still light, was up from the preceding 
quarter as well as year-over-year. However, recent activity has typically involved renewal of existing 
leases , and renewing tenants , in many cases,  gave back space. Net absorption remains slightly negative as 
increases in vacancy have moderated. Boston’s downtown vacancy rate wa s described as ―a soft 16 
 
I - 3 
percent‖  in the fourth quarter,  while the Route -495 corridor is faring much worse, with vacancy rates 
between 25 and 30 percent. In Boston and Providence alike, renewing tenants have pushed to lock in 
currently low rental rates ov er the leasing term.  Providence saw a moderate uptick in leasing activity in 
recent weeks, including activity occasioned by relocation and expansion of health and educational 
institutions. The class A downtown office market has held up relatively well, wit h a current vacancy rate 
of 9.5 percent, while class B downtown office space has a vacancy rate of 15 percent. In Hartford, leasing 
activity remains ―very light‖ and absorption is still slightly negative, but the retail market has fared better 
than expecte d and our contact saw a bit more enthusiasm in the local economy  overall  in recent weeks.   
Sales transactions in greater Boston, also up on a year -over-year basis, remain limited to the 
highest -quality properties, for which there is brisk demand from investors seeking to add real estate back 
into their portfolios without taking on excess ris k. Investment sales have been ―few and far between‖ in 
Rhode Island.  While contacts report that credit conditions for commercial real estate have eased on a 
year-over-year basis, they remain watchful of rising commercial defaults  both regionally and nationally 
and expect significant further write -downs of commercial real estate portfolios. A Boston banker reports 
that his bank’s balance sheet remains in excellent sha pe, however, and that the bank has sought 
aggressively to make new commercial loans in recent weeks.  
One contact remained pessimistic concerning the outlook for the next six to 12 months, and the 
rest were cautiously optimistic . The caution came from conc erns that recent upticks in leasing activity 
may prove unsustainable, especially if weak job growth (if not job losses) persists ; one Boston contact 
thinks that rents in the city have further to fall.  
Residential Real Estate  
Home and condo sales continued to show significant year -over-year increases in December 2009, 
belying concerns that year -over-year declines would recur after the huge sales increases in November that 
were mainly attributed to the first -time homebuyer tax credit. Part of the continued st rength may be due to 
the extension of the tax credit through April 2010 and expansion of the tax credit to include some existing 
homebuyers. Contacts report year -over-year home sales increases between 15 percent and 36 percent 
across the six New England  states; condo sales increased between 29 percent and 66 percent year -over-
year. January data from the Boston area show these home and condo sales trends continuing into 2010. 
While foreclosure sales and short sales made up 33 percent of sales in December in Rhode Island, this 
represents an improvement from 43 percent in December 2008.  
Home prices also showed signs of improvement in December. While the median home price 
declined slightly year -over-year in December in New Hampshire, it increased modestly in Co nnecticut, 
Rhode Island, and Maine, and rose more substantially in Massachusetts (11 percent) and the Boston area 
(20 percent , and then 6 percent in January year -over-year) . The median condo price fell year -over-year in 
December in Rhode Island but increas ed in Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Hampshire. The 
median condo price in the Boston area increased 27 percent year -over-year in January.  
Several contacts believe that sales will continue to increase year -over-year for the next few 
months while the ex panded tax credit is still available. A Boston contact reports that traffic at open houses 
has been steady. Pending sales numbers for Massachusetts were strong in January.  
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT --NEW YORK  
The Second District’s economy has shown some further signs of strengthening  since the last 
report , despite some apparent slowing in the  housing market ; input price increases have become more 
wide spread .  In general, b usiness  contacts report ongoing improvement in overall conditions  and some 
pickup in hiring activity .  Many manufacturing contacts also indicate plans to increase employment and 
capital spending in the months ahead .  General merchandise retailers  mostly report that sales were ahead 
of plan in January, and up from a year earlier, though some report that snowstorms slowed business in 
February .  Auto dealers report mixed  but generally sluggish sales results for January and early February, 
though used  car sales remain strong.  Tourism activity in New York City has picked up since the last 
report, though snowstorms in much of the East appear to have crimped activity in early February.  
Commercial real estate markets  have been steady to softer  since the last report , while t he sales/investment 
market remain s exceptionally weak.  R esidential real estate markets were mixed to weaker in early 2010.  
Finally, b ankers report  weakening in loan demand in all categories , rising delinquency rates —mainly in 
the hous ehold sector —but some leveling off in credit standards on consumer loans and residential 
mortgages.  
Consumer Spending  
Retail ers report that same -store sales were ahead of plan in January and up 5 to 10 percent from a 
year earlier, though conditions were more mixed  but roughly on plan  in the first half of February.  
General merchandise chains attribute much of the slowing in February to inclement weather ; one contact 
notes that on days and in places with no major weather issues, sales were stronger than ex pected.  One 
major mall in western New York State reports some softening in business in February, but another reports 
that business remained strong through mid -month, helped by particularly strong business from Canadian 
shoppers —particularly on Presidents’  Day (Family Day, in Ontario) weekend.  Virtually all retailers note 
that i nventories were lean following the holiday season, though some report fairly heavy discounting.   
 
 II-2 
New a uto sales have reportedly been steady to softer in early 2010.  A uto dealers i n the Buffalo 
area report that sales were exceptionally weak in December and remained sluggish in January, running 20  
to 25 percent below  a year earlier , though some pickup was reported in February.  In contrast, contacts in 
the Rochester area report that sales ended 2009 on a very strong note, buoyed by incentives, but softened 
in early 2010, slipping about 10 percent below year -earlier levels.  However, u sed car sales have 
reportedly been brisk across the board.  Auto dealers note  modest improvement in cr edit conditions.  
Tourism activity in New York Ci ty showed signs of picking up since the last report.   Manhattan 
hotels report that last December was the best on record in terms of  the occupancy rate, which rose to 86  
percent —up from 82  percent  a year earl ier.  Business remained strong in January and early February, with 
occupancy rates remaining ahead of comparable 2009 levels  by similar margins .  This r ise occurred 
despite a roughly 6 percent increase in the number of hotel rooms , indicating a fairly subs tantial increase 
in the number of visitors.  Room rates have been fairly steady  in recent months, after accounting for 
seasonal variation,  but are still down roughly 10  percent  from a yea r earlier.  After a relatively sluggish 
holiday season in 2009, Broad way theaters report a noticeable pickup in business in January —total 
revenues were up nearly 20  percent  from a year earlier, while attendance rose roughly 8  percent .  
Business tapered off markedly  in the first half of February, but this likely reflects heavy snow in many 
parts of the East.  Finally, surveys by both the Conference Board and Siena College indicate that 
consumer confidence in the region climbed to a roughly two -year high in January.   
Construction and Real Estate  
Housing markets appear to have softened in early 2010, after hints of a pickup in late 2009.  New 
York City’s sales and rental markets both showed signs of slackening since the last report .  Rental 
activity, which had stabiliz ed in December, has reportedly weakened more recently , while asking rents 
were relatively stable but lower than a year earlier.  Co-op and condo transactions, which had picked up in 
the latter part of 2009, are said to have slipped across the board thus fa r in 2010, while prices have 
 
 II-3 
reportedly continued to drift down.  Similarly, northern New Jersey’s single -family housing market has 
reportedly lost momentum in early 2010 —particularly for new homes —after showing scattered signs of a 
pickup in late 2009.  H owever, this may partly reflect unusually harsh winter weather this year  in much of 
the state .  Construction of both single - and multi -family homes is moribund, as d evelopers are reportedly 
holding off on any new development .  Still, a real estate agent in  a relatively upscale area notes that short 
sales are not all that common and that most transactions are still above the remaining mortgage balance; 
however, she notes that prices continue to drift down —especially at the high end, where affordability 
remai ns a major factor.  The homebuyer tax credit is not much of a factor because it represents a small 
portion of the typical house price.  Buffalo -area Realtors indicate that sales were sluggish in both late 
2009 and early  2010, though here, the recent extens ion of the homebuyer tax credit is expected to spur 
increased activity in the months ahead.   
Commercial real estate markets across most of  the District softened  since the last report .  Vacancy 
rates in Manhattan continued to climb, while asking rents continued to fall  and were down more than 20 
percent  from a year ago .  Vacancy rates also rose noticeably in Westchester and Fairfield counties, while 
asking rents were down by 6 percent.  In most other areas  around the District , however, vacancies and 
rents were relatively stable.  Commercial real estate sales remained exceptionally weak across the board .  
Other B usiness Activity  
A major NYC employment agency, specializing in office jobs, reports that hiring activity has been 
sluggish but stable in early 2 010, in contrast with the modest pickup that seemed to be taking hold in late 
2009; still, conditions are reported to be not as bad as during most of 2009 .  There has been some pickup 
in hiring in the legal industry, which had been exceptionally weak .  How ever, there is only scattered 
hiring in th e financial sector , and mostly at smaller firms.  Separately, a securities industry contact 
indicates that  the pace of layoffs has slowed to more normal levels, giving greater job security to those 
still employed; nevertheless , firms are reluctant to hire in many areas due to uncertainty about both the 
 
 II-4 
economic and regulatory outlook.  Although there has been little activity in mergers and acquisitions or 
IPOs (initial public offerings), other business  lines are  described as fairly good.  Bonuses at large firms 
are up from last year’s depressed levels but largely restricted (i.e. options or stock s that cannot be sold 
immediately).  There has been some shift in compensation away from bonuses and toward salaries.     
Looking at business conditions more generally, both manufacturing and non-manufacturing 
contacts report continued improvement since the last report.  Manufacturing firms in the District note 
some further improvement in business conditions, along with modes t increases in employment.  Contacts 
remain optimistic about the general business outlook and anticipate widespread increases in new orders, 
as well as increased hiring and capital spending.  Non-manufacturing contacts overall report continued 
modest impro vement in business and a slight pickup in employment for the first time since the start of the 
recession; contacts remain mostly optimistic about the general business outlook and a growing proportion 
plan to expand capital spending and employment in the mo nths ahead .  Both manufacturers and other 
firms report increasingly widespread rises prices paid but little or no change in selling prices.   
Financial Developments  
Bankers report decreased demand for all types of loans , particularly in the residential mor tgage 
category , where more than half of those surveyed report weakening demand, compared with just 11 
percent reporting a pickup .  Bankers also reported decreased demand for refinancing .  Res pondents 
indicate further tightening in credit standards in the c ommercial mortgage and commercial and industrial 
loan categories  but some leveling off in standards on consumer loan s and residential mortgages.  Still, n o 
banker reported an easing of credit standards in any of the categories.   
The spreads of loan rates over costs of funds increased for all loan categories —most notably in 
the commercial mortgage category.  Respondents indicate widespread decrease s in average deposit rate s.  
Finally, r espondents report continuing increase s in delin quency rates for all categories except the 
commercial and industrial loan category, where rates are reported to have leveled off . 
III - 1 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA  
 
 Economic conditions improved in some sectors in the Third District and have been about 
steady in others si nce the last Beige Book.  Manufacturers, on balance, reported increase s in 
shipments and new orders. Retailers indicated that a rising sales trend was interrupted by 
snowstorms in February.  Motor vehicle dealers indicated that sales have been increasing slightly  
but were also hampered by snowstorms . Third District banks repor ted steady loan volume 
outstanding . Residential real estate agents and home builders said demand for home s has been on 
the rise, but February snowstorms adversely impacted construction and sales.  Nonresidential real 
estate leasing , purchase,  and constructi on activity continued to be weak . Service -sector firms 
generally reported steady activity. Business firms in the region indicated that prices of most 
goods and services have been steady, although there were reports of price increases for metals 
and some in dustrial products.  
The outlook among Third District business co ntacts is that business conditions will 
improve slowly in most sectors in the months ahead . Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments 
and orders during the next six months, on balance. Retaile rs expect sales to expand slowly as 
overall economic conditions improve.  Auto dealers expect sales this year to be s lightly above the 
level achieved last year . Bankers expect only slight increases in lending.  Residential real estate 
contacts expect home sa les to be boosted in the shor t term by the homebuyer credit, but they 
expect just a slow increase in sales after the expiration of the tax benefit.  Contacts in 
nonresidential real estate expect leasing to advance as landlords reduce rents, but they expect 
construction to remain soft through most of the year.  Service -sector firms generally anticipate 
slow growth in the near term.  
 
Manufacturing  
Third District manufacturers  reported increases in shipments and new orders, on balance,  
from January to February , with the number of firms posting gains exceed ing the number 
recording declines by a fair margin. The improvement was also widespread, as most of the major 
manufacturing industries in the region posted increases.  Comments from manufacturers indicated 
that t heir customers are beginning to step up orders after a period of slow activity. One contact 
III - 2 
said that “for the first time in 16 months there is slight optimism among our customer base,” and 
another said that “we are ramping up to handle a few large project s.” However, t he overall 
expansion in manufacturing activity since the last Beige Book was constrained somewhat by 
production interruptions resulting from snowstorms during February .  
Third District manufactur ers expect business conditions to improve durin g the next six 
months, on balance. Among the firms polled in February , about half expect increases in new 
orders and shipments through the middle of the year; about one-tenth expect decreases. Capital 
spending plans among area manufacturers have improved s ince the last Beige Book. About one -
third of the firms polled in February plan to increase expenditures for new plant and equipment, 
although one -half plan to maintain level spending. Despite the general improvement in current 
and expected conditions in th e region’s manufacturing sector , some firms said further gains 
could be limited by continuing tightness in credit markets and adverse developments in regard to 
taxes  and regulations.  
 
Retail  
Third District r etailers reported that February snowstorms hamper ed shopping, offsetting 
a marginally rising sales trend. As a result, many of the stores contacted for this report said they 
will likely post month -to-month and year -to-year decreases in sales for February. Retail contacts 
generally indicated that, except for the snowstorms, sales have been moving up slowly. Most 
cautioned, however, that a strong growth trend is not imminent. One store executive said sales 
were “just turning the corner” toward improvement. Looking ahead, Third District retailers 
generally e xpect only slow growth in sales for some time. One retailer said, “Sales will be on a 
plateau until employment picks up .” 
Third District auto dealers reported a slight improvement in sales since the last Beige 
Book, but a negative impact from February snowstorms . Looking ahead, dealers continue to 
expect total sales for this year to be slightly ahead of last year.  
 
Finance  
Total outstanding loan volume at Third District banks has been virtually level since the 
last Beige Book , according to bankers conta cted for this report. On balance, commercial bank 
lending officers said slight increases in business loans and real estate loans were being offset by 
III - 3 
decreases in consumer loans.  Several banks indicated that loan delinquencies have been about 
steady in rec ent weeks, although credit quality remained a concern . One banker said, “Credit 
quality is holding its own, but we are concerned that some borrowers will not be able to stay 
current beyond the first quarter.”  
Third District bankers see some signs of loan g rowth ahead. Some reported increased 
inquiries about business loans. However, in general, bankers in the region expect consumer loan 
demand to remain soft, and they expect tight credit standards to limit expansion in lending of all 
types.  
 
Real Estate and Construction  
Sales of new and existing homes have picked up some what since the last Beige Book. 
Local real estate agents and home builders  said the homebuyer tax credit was providing some 
impetus  to sales, especially in the lower - and moderate -price segments of the market . Some 
builders have started speculative construction of houses to attract buyers who wish to take 
advantage of the tax credit before its expiration. However, snowstorms in February interrupted 
construction as well as sales, according  to builders and real estate agents. Real estate agents said 
the inventory of homes listed for sale remained high , and sales prices have been steady  to down 
across the region . Residential real estate contacts expect sales to rise seasonally in the spring , but 
several cautioned that sales might decline when the tax credit expires. Looking beyond that date, 
one agent said , “We are predicting a slow recovery in sales.”  
Nonresidential real estate firms indicated that leasing, purchase, and construction activity  
remained slow, but there have been some slight increases in the sales of commercial buildings in 
some parts of the region. Contacts reported that vacancy rates have been about steady since the 
last Beige Book report, but effective rents have continued to decline . Much of the recent leasing 
activity has been for relatively small blocks of office space, according to agents , who say that 
tenants are reluctant to commit for large blocks of office space. Contacts reported a slight 
increase in leasing of industr ial space, but they said the demand for retail space has remained 
weak.  Contacts expect nonresidential real estate markets to remain soft through at least mid -
2010, by which time improvement is expected in some, but not all markets. A contact in office 
markets said  that “significantly reduced rental rates will be influential” in stimulating leasing 
III - 4 
activity in office markets, but a contact in industrial markets said that sector will be “tested” in 
2010.  
 
 Services  
Service -sector firms generally reported that activity has been about steady since the last 
Beige Book. Some indicated a slight strengthening in demand for their services, which some 
described as only “stabilization” or “an uptick.”  Some engineering firms noted that they have 
had increases in de mand for work related to energy conservation and efficiency, but other 
construction -related activity continued to be very weak. The region’s service -sector firms expect 
slow growth, at best, in the near term. One noted that “clients are starting to talk ab out projects 
they have had on the shelf, but they’re not doing anything yet,” and another said , “We continue 
to be cautious.”   
   
Prices  
Reports on input costs and output prices have been mixed since the last Beige Book. A 
number of manufacturing firms noted increases in costs of the commodities they use . Most 
continued to report that they have not raised the prices of the products they make , although 
producers of metals and some types of industrial machinery have raised prices . Retailers reported 
mostly  flat selling prices .  
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND  
The economy in the Fourth District  continues to show  some  signs of improvement , 
although  overall  activity  remains  significantly below pre -recession levels .  Reports from 
manufacturers  indicate d that production  was stable  or rose moderately and that  orders have 
increased .  New home sales improved slightly, while  non-residential builders  characterized 
activity  in their industry  as slow .  Financing  remains a major  issue for residential and 
commercial  contractors .  January  sales figures from District retailers  and auto dealers  were 
mixed .  Energy production held steady , and r eport s show ed a small  upturn in freight transport 
volum e.  Demand by  business es and consumer s for new loans remains weak , while  the growth  
rate in core deposits  is tapering off .     
Labor market s are beginning to show  a slight  recovery , with  some  business owners  
recalling a few workers or increasing  produ ction hours .  Staffing -firm representatives  reported  an 
increased  number of  job openings , especially in healthcare and , to a lesser degree , in 
manu facturing .  Wage pressures  are conta ined.  We heard many  reports of  rising  steel costs, 
otherwise , raw material and product pri cing was  generally  stable.   Capital spending  is beginning 
to rise, but continues below pre -recession levels.   Inventories remain under tight control .     
Manufacturing.   Reports from  District factories  show ed that production  was largely 
stable  or rose moderately  during the past six weeks, with  a majority of our contacts citing an 
increase in new orders .  Most manufacturers  told us that production  levels have  increased  on a 
year-over-year basis, though  by varying amounts .  In general, o ur contacts are cautiou sly 
optimistic in their outlook.  How ever,  several believe that  the recent rise in  new o rders is a  result 
of customers  restocking  their inventories and may not  signal a sustainable increase in production.   
Steel shipments  were in  line with expectations , with volume reports showing a gradual 
improvement.   Although no end market is particularly strong, rising  volume  was attributed  
primarily to defense and energy .  Our steel contacts  are hopeful that improving conditions will 
continue .  District auto production  showed a small increase  during  January on a month -over-
month  basis  and a substantial rise when comparing year-over-year data for domestic and foreign 
nameplates.  
Manufacturers  reported that  inventories  are in line with demand , while c apacity  
utilization is beginning to improve .  In general,  capital  invest ment s continue  on the low side.  
Nonetheless, a number of contacts said  that they have increased  their capital budgets for 2010; 
others commented  that if new orders continue to rise , they are likely to spend more on capital 
projects later in the year.   We heard many  reports  of increasing  steel prices , which were 
attributed  primarily  to rising raw mater ial costs .  However, t here was little response on the p art 
of manufacturers to raise  their own prices.   Reports indicated that foo d-related commodity prices 
have dropped.  Half of our respondents  said that they have increased  the number of  work hours 
IV - 2  
or recalled a few production  employees, and  wage pressures are contained .  
Real Estate .  In general, new home sales improved slightly  during the past six weeks  and 
on a year -over-year basis .  Purchases of entry -level homes continue to do  well, and several  
builders reported  that the move -up category  is gaining momentum .  However, b uilders expressed 
concern about the  potential effect  on ho me sales once the first -time home buyers ’ tax credit 
expires  on April 30.   They also  reported  that banks  remain unwilling to lend money for 
constructing spec houses , and tight credit standards are keeping many potential buyers out of the 
market.   Our contacts had decidedly mixed reports on  the list prices of new homes  and 
discounting.  Construction material costs  were generally stable, although  the price of  lumber  has 
started to climb from its recent low .  General contractors  continue to operate  with skeleton 
crews , but some reported that they are in the process of recalling a few workers.   Subcontractors 
are struggling to keep busy . 
Reports  characterized activity in non -residential construction, including public works,  as 
slow .  Although m ost of our contact s said that business has fallen  on a year -over-year basis and 
many have nearly depleted their backlogs,  inquiries are picking-up slightly .  Most project s under 
way fall within  the public works and education categories.  Nonetheless , two buil ders reported a 
small upturn  in industrial  construction .  About half of our contacts expect activity to remain 
weak in 2010, while others see  a slight improvement when compared to 2009.  We continue  to 
hear numerous accounts  of difficulties in obtaining  project  financing.   One executive noted that 
his firm is now financing some of its  clients’ projects.   Increased costs for construction mat erials 
were limited to steel , and subcontractor pricing remains very competitive.   Employment  by 
general contractors  has been larg ely stable .   
Consumer Spending .  Reports  comparing January retail sales to the previous 30 -day 
period were mixed.  How ever, a majority  of our retail contacts  said that sales improved slightly 
on a year-over-year basis .  Althoug h consumers co ntinue to fo cus on  buying necessities  over 
discretionary items, several retailers no ted that they see a slight pick up across a broad range of 
products , including housewares and furniture.   Almost all of our contacts expect sales to improve 
somewhat  during  the next few months.  Vendor  and store  pricing has  been  relatively  stable .  
Retail i nventories  continue d on the lean side.  Auto dealers  reported  that new-vehicle sales  
tended toward the down side in January when compared to December.  On a year -over-year 
basis , most  new-auto sales figures  showed  an uptick .  Used -vehicle purchases are seen as holding 
steady .  Dealers expect  overall  sales to show modest improvements at best during the next few 
months.   Auto store inventories were characterized as tight.  Some contacts told us  that credit and 
financing have  impro ved a bit during the past few weeks, and that many consumers remain 
heavily dependent on manufacturers’ incentives.   Reports show  little change  in sta ffing levels  at 
retailers or auto dealers.   
IV - 3  
Banking.   Demand for  new business  loans  remains weak .  Bankers experiencing 
increased  volume attribut ed it mainly  to draw -downs on existing lines  and roll overs from other 
banks , rather than  new activity.   Interest rates and spreads were  steady .  On the consumer side,  
conventional  loan demand  dropped sub stantially since our  last report, with s everal bankers 
characterizing  demand as very soft.   Activity in the residential mortgage market  was stable to 
down a nd dominated by refinancings.   On balance, c ore deposits  continued  to grow , but many  
bankers said  that the rate  of growth  has tapered off .  Credit standards remain tight, with many 
bankers emphasizing  that they are a ctively managing or reviewing  their existing loan portfolios 
and relationships.   The c redit quality of loan applicants  was stable to weaker for consumers and 
businesses .  Reports on delinquencies were mixed, with most increases occurring  in real estate 
portfolios.   Outside of some strategic  hires and controlled attrition, banks have not  appreciably  
changed  their employment level s.   
Energy.   Little change in  oil and gas output  was reported  during the past six weeks , with 
drilling  activity  in 2010  expected to be about equal to 2009 .  However, natural gas  drilling  may 
get a boost from  recent investments made in Marcellus shale  reserves .  Spot prices  for oil  and gas 
are stable within a narrow range.  Coal  production  continues to be below 2008 levels due to 
lower power generation and de pressed steel production.   Prices for coal were mixed.   Capital  
expenditures  by oil and gas producers  are tightening , whereas  investment s by coal producers  
have been delayed until market conditions improve.   Production equipment and material costs 
remain s table.   Employment was  steady , and little hiring  is expected in the near future.  Wage 
pressures are contained.       
Transportation.   Freight tr ansport  executives reported  a slight improvement in shipping 
volume since our last report .  One contact noted  that January shipments increased on a year-over-
year basis.  Margins remain depressed, with several executives commenting that over capacity  
continue s to be  the key issue  facing the industry.  Nonetheless, most contacts we spoke with are 
cautiously optimi stic in their outlook and expect modest improvements in volume  during 2010.   
Apart from fluctuating fuel costs, prices have been relatively stable.   Capital spending is 
expected to increase somewhat on a year -over-year basis, but remain significantly below pre -
recession levels.  A few contacts noted that they plan to allocate monies for IT equipment.  
However, spending on new trucks will  be limited  until capacity utilization improves.  Hiring was 
limited to replacement only.   Wage reports were more  upbeat :  One contact said  that he is 
partially restoring wage cuts  made  a year ago, while another said he is lifting his  firm’s  salary 
freeze.    
 
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT –RICHMOND  
 Overview.  Economic activity slacken ed or remained soft across most sectors of the Fifth 
District’s economy since our last assessment . However, s evere winter storms  throughout the District  
played an important role . Many consumers avoided driving during  dangerous road conditions , causing 
weakness in retail sales (except for items such as food ). One banker noted that even borrowers with pre -
approved mortgage  loans were unable to do much house shopping  during the bad weathe r. Overall, t he 
residential real estate market activity was generally viewed as mixed, although the commercial market s 
continued to weaken regardless of weather conditions. Tourism was also mixed, with heavy snows in the 
mountain areas contributing to booming activity  at ski resorts , but ke eping vacationers away from most 
other activities . Many manufacturers lost a few da ys of production during the storms , but were able to 
make up most of the lost production. Manufacturing s hipments and backlogs , however, were largely 
unchanged  over the last month , while  new orders improved . Both m anufacturing  and service employment 
fell since our last report , although  temporary employment agencies report ed slight increases in demand , 
particularly among service -related occupations . 
 Retail . Retail revenues generally weakened since our last report, although a few merchants 
reported slightly higher sales. Big -ticket sales dropped sharply, including sales of automobiles and light 
trucks. Sales fell in many other categories; for example, a depart ment store manager reported that 
customers were trading down from “label” apparel to the in -house brand. In addition, retail sales fell 
abruptly during recent major snow storms, although some of our contacts indicated that sales rebounded 
quickly as custom ers fought “cabin fever” by shopping when roads were cleared. However, many retailers 
were unable to recover lost sales and advertising expenses because those snow storms occurred on 
consecutive weekends. In contrast, District grocery sales rose, and the s tore manager at a chain discount 
retailer in North Carolina reported that sales of larger screen televisions were especially strong just prior 
to the Super Bowl football game and following the snow storms. Several  store managers said their 
outlook for 2010  was more optimistic than in recent months, stating that raises and bonuses were on the 
table again after last year’s freezes. However, merchants remained cautious in their planning, and 
inventory levels were being managed tightly. Retail wages rose  on ave rage, while price increases slowed.  
 Services.  Revenues fell at most District services firms in recent weeks, partly due to snow storms 
at the end of January and beginning of February. Virginia airports attributed a decline in enplanements to 
the bad weat her, and District hotels and restaurants also reported a drop in customer traffic. In addition, 
CFO’s and other executives at small businesses continued to express frustration at not being able to get 
loans. Architectural firms in Virginia and Maryland, as  well as a few hospitals, reported an increase in 
consumer demand for services, however. Also, investment advisors and other financial services 
professionals indicated that revenues picked up in recent weeks, although overall business conditions 
 V-2  
remained m ixed. A financial services contact reported that he was seeing a sense of optimism beginning 
to develop among his commercial clientele. Average wages inched up at services firms; price increases 
were mild.  
 Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity was flat to up  in February, with optimism for the 
near-term remaining  guarded. Contacts on balance reported that shipments and backlogs held steady, 
while  new orders posted solid increases. A textile producer said, “Business ha s definitely turned for the 
better.” His company , however,  was using fewer employees due to increased productivity. Similarly, a 
textile mill manufacturer reported that sales, production and shipments continued to improve and that 
business was looking good over the next two months. Moreover, a chemical producer noted that his 
company had seen a n increase  in all of his business lines and believed that this increase would be 
sustainable for the next 18 months. In contrast, a primary metal manufacturer indicated an uptick in 
demand , but was not convinced that the gains  would continue because his backlogs had slacked off 
recently. Likewise, an apparel producer said that sales had increased because retailers were building 
inventories. He noted, however, that his company was not increasing wages and was reluctant to hire 
because  he believed present demand was a  blip and would not last beyond t his summer. Several 
manufacturers reported production disruptions during the snow storms, but were able to make up the 
losses by working overtime and d uring holidays. Although most contacts reported that both raw materials 
and finished goods prices increased at a slower pace since our last report, lumber prices were higher 
across the board due to weather -related supply effect s. 
 Finance. Lending activity  in the District remained soft and little changed from our last 
assessment, although adverse weather in both January and early February was partly to blame. With 
businesses closed and home buyers reluctant to drive during the extended period of bad weather , 
especially in the northern half of the District, banks were getting few customers. Yet, even in areas less 
affected by weather, several bankers described loan demand as tepid. One large bank reported that 
commercial and industrial  lending remained  weak a cross all market lines.  Another banker stated that a 
modest tightening of credit standards was making loan approvals more difficult. Bankers noted that, while  
businesses were increasingly calling about loans, few were ready to make loan applications  due to  the 
sluggishness of the economy. Nonetheless, one large bank did see a “bit of a thawing” among businesses 
that needed to replace capital, and a small bank stated that their one area of increased activity was in 
home equity loans. Most bankers stated that  more improvement in the economy and particularly 
consumer spending w ould be necessary before loan demand w ould strengthen appreciably.   
Real Estate.   Fifth  District Realtor s reported  mixed housing activity across the District, citing  
weather as a limiting factor in many areas. For example, a Greensboro Realtor noted lower sales since ou r 
last report, adding that recent weather conditions had “shut them down.” Further, he cited the uncertainty 
of the economy as a big factor in holding down sales,  and said t his was the worst market he had ever 
 V-3  
experienced. Likewise, a  Charlotte  agent stated that, while house sales slowed  in recent weeks , months ’ 
supply of inventory was also down markedly. However, a  Fredericksburg  Realtor reported that, in spite of  
the adverse weather conditions, sales in her market were equal to a year ago and indicated  that, absent the 
weather, there might have been  an improvement in market conditions. Several agent s reported that  home 
sales in the lower price range s continued to benefit f rom first -time homebuyers , although there was also 
an increase in foreclosures and short sales . Agents in most localities  reported that home pri ces were either 
flat or had drop ped. 
Commercial real estate activity in the District slow ed across all segments of the market. Several 
contacts reported that office, industrial, and retail vacancy rates edged  higher, putting more downward 
pressure on prices and leasing rates . One contact cited an increase in late payments and even defaults. An  
agent stated that several retail chain stores were having trouble getting financing to sustain their outlet 
expansion plans. However, local retailers were benefiting from less competition for leasing space in prime 
locations from  national chains. Little o r no construction activity was reported in most areas of the District. 
One exception that was noted included the construction of small industrial  building s  such as auto 
service s and parts  shops .  
 Tourism.  Tourist activity was mixed, with weather again playing an important role. Contacts 
along the coast reported weaker bookings and noted that both occupancy and room rates were down 
considerably when compared to our last report and to a year ago. An analyst on the Outer Banks of North 
Carolina said that b ookings for Valentines’ and Presidents’ Day weekends were somewhat below a year 
ago and attributed the weakness to major snowstorms to the north  and ongoing concerns regarding the 
national economy. Looking ahead, however, she noted that rental bookings wer e up slightly and credited 
the increase to creative packaging such as throwing in free linens, gas cards and gift certificates to local 
restaurants. Respondents at ski resorts, however, continued to report that “business is booming,” as 
record -breaking sno wfalls resulted in an historically high number of visits. A manager at a ski lodge in 
Virginia stated  that this Presidents’ Day weekend had been the busiest in the past five years.  
Labor Markets .  Labor markets generally soften ed across major sectors  in the Fifth District . 
Employment and hours at manufacturing firms on average continued to decline over the past month , 
while retail and service -providing  industries  reduced hiring but increased hours . Employment was held 
back , according to one manufacturing contact,  by productivity  improvements  initiated earlier in the 
recession,  and another manufacturer stated that temporary  layoffs were continuing  due to weak  demand. 
However, temporary employment agents reported somewhat stronger demand during  January and 
February  than in previous months . One agent cited a slight increase in demand for contract workers in 
manufacturing, although construction -related supplier s continued to struggle. M ost of the  gains in 
temporary hiring were in service -related o ccupations , such as finance and other professional services .  
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA  
Summary.  Reports from business contacts during January and the early part of 
February painted a mixed picture of economic activity for the Sixth District.   While most  
retail contacts noted a larger than expected post-holiday decrease in traffic and sales, 
tourism -related spending appeared to have increased as a result of several high profile 
events. Residential real estate contacts indicated that both new and existing home sales 
softened, but generally remained above weak levels from a year ago . Commercial 
contractors continued to describe activity as weak .  District manufacturers noted a n 
improvement in new orders  and the decline in production slowe d.  Banking contacts 
continued to note weakness in loan demand .  Overall, businesses reported that labor 
demand remained subdued . However, temporary help agencies have noted a  steady 
increase in job orders since the beginning of the year .  Some  manufacturing  contacts  
reported an increase in input prices , but retail  contacts suggested that they had very little 
pricing power . 
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Most District retailers indicated that traffic 
and sales were lower than expect ed. Merchants reported that they continued to keep 
inventor ies at low  levels. The ou tlook among retailers  was mixed , with almost half of 
those contacted noting that they expect an increase in sales over the next few  months. 
Despite the higher sales expectations, retailers did not indicate that they planned to make 
significant adjustments to inventories.  District vehicle sales remained weak in January 
despite gains reported in some light vehicle segments.  
Tourism -related spending strengthened throughout the District .  Miami, in 
particular , experienced  strong demand for hotel bookings related to the Pro Bowl and the 
Super Bowl. Mardi  Gras, which t ook place in mid -February in New Orleans , is estimated 
to have had the highest number of attendees since 2005 . Cruise industry sources  noted 
that o nboard spending i ncreased in early 2010.  The overall outlook among h ospitality  
contacts improved since the last report . 
Real Estate and Construction.  According to reports from District homebuilders, 
new home sales softened somewhat across the region. Weakness was most pronounced 
among Georgia homebu ilders. The majority continued to report that construction activity 
declined on a year -over-year basis. Most said that unsold home inventory was below 
VI-2 
year-ago levels , while reports indicated that new home inventory continued to decline on 
a month -to-month  basis as well. The majority of builders continued to note year-over-
year declines in home prices , but more than two -thirds of respondents said prices were 
unchanged from December. Overall, the outlook for home sales improved slightly , while 
expected const ruction activity softened a bit.  
Reports from Realtors also indicated that existing home sales growth softened 
during January. Some noted that weather had been a deterrent to sales. Realtors indicated 
that high -end home sales growth remained weak but conti nued to improve , while low to 
mid-priced home sales growth softened. On a year -over-year basis , existing  home 
inventories were mixed; however, reports indicated that unsold inventory increased from 
December. Most contacts continued to report year -over-year declines in home prices and 
more than half reported that prices had declined from December. The outlook remains 
positive but softened somewhat from December.  
Commercial construction across the District  remained at low levels during the 
reporting period .  Most contractors reported that activity was even with fourth quarter 
2009, while a few report ed continued  weak ness.  A little more than half said that 
backlogs were similar to fourth -quarter levels  but were below year-ago levels . Most 
reported that demand for new construction remained very weak.  Looking ahead, the 
majority of contacts anticipate commercial construction activity for the remainder of the 
year to be largely flat .   
 Manufacturing and Transportation. Recent r eports from  Sixth District 
manufacturers revealed that new orders rose , while the decline in production moderated . 
Over half of the manufacturers contacted expect production levels to rise in the coming 
months. With regard to finished inventory, contacts continued to report ongoing 
reductions.  
Transportation contacts reported that freight demand modestly improv ed in early 
2010. Regional rail loadings in January and early February were above  year-ago levels , 
with autos, chemicals, metals, and some construction -related s hipments posting 
noticeable gains . 
Banking and Finance.  Overall, the level of bank lending continued to contract  
as credit conditions remained relatively tight. Banks  reported having ample liquidity, but 
VI-3 
remained cautious of reducing cash reserves .  Weak loan demand , particularly related to 
business  expansion,  continued to be noted by banking contacts throughout the region.   
Contacts also noted that stricter loan terms ha ve effectively reduced the pool of qualified 
loan applications.  
Employment and Prices.  Temporary help agencies continued to report an 
increase in job orders in January  and early February .  However, unemployment remains 
high across the District and job creation  remained tepid.   Businesses continue d to 
describe attempts  to do more with less, such as combining the duties of several jobs into 
one. 
District manufacturing contacts indicated that input prices were up compared with 
a year ago, citing rising commodity prices as a primary factor.  District retailers indicated 
that they had little pricing power and were wary of trying to pass input price increase s 
through to consumers.  
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Crude oil production in the District 
moderated slightly in January and early February, though output  remained above the lows 
seen in August 2009.  Industry contacts noted that refineries in the region continued to 
scale back processing of distillate fuel oil, helping to deplete historically elevated stocks.   
Recent wet weather and cold temperatures have negatively affected wint er crops in 
Alabama and Georgia  and limit ed farm work in most areas of the District. Meanwhile, 
Florida’s farmers reported minor losses of vegetable, sugarcane, and citrus crops as a 
result of a winter freeze .  
 
 
 VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT —CHICAGO   
Summary .  Economic a ctivity in the Seventh District  improved at a moderate pace  in 
January and February . Cons umer and business spending increased  slightly. Manufacturing 
continued to improve, while  construction remained weak . Credit conditi ons were little changed . 
Price pressure s for most raw materials  leveled off, and  wage  pressures were minimal . Hog and 
cattle prices rose, while feed costs fell along with corn and soybean prices.  
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending increased slightly in January and February.  
Retail sales continued to improve, although contacts indicated that the rate of increase had slowed 
in recent weeks. Sales of consumer durables and luxury items remained weaker  than nondurables  
and necessities , but a small pick-up in demand for appliances  was reported. Rising  sales led retailers 
to begin to rebuild inventories from their very low levels. Contacts expected that this would likely 
continue through the first half of the year . Auto s ales were down from the previous reporting period . 
Fewer incentives, inclement weat her, and the Toyota recall  contributed to the decline . Contacts 
indicated that many Toyota customers had  likely  held off on purchases  given concern over the  
recall’s negative  impact on the  residual value of  their Toyota  vehicles . Auto dealers reported that 
inventories, while still lower than normal, were at comfortable levels.  
Business spending.   Business spending also increased slightly  from the previou s rep orting 
period. Contacts indicated that inventories  were currently  being restocked only as needed to keep up 
with demand . Several  manufacturing  contacts  questioned the sustainability of  any further  inventory 
accumulation, pointing  to uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook, volatility of materials 
prices , and tighter credit  as forces keepin g inventories lean. Most contacts, however,  thought  that 
these factors would at worst only serve to  delay the rebuild in manufacturing until the second half of 
the year.  Labor mar ket conditions improved somewhat  in January and February with layoffs 
declining and the workweek  increasing. In addition, the demand for temporary workers  remained 
strong with a large staffing firm r eporting  that billable hours increased  substantially , particularly 
from  the manufacturing sector.  Perma nent hiring continued to be slow, but contacts indicate d some 
improvement in demand in  information technology, healthcare, sales, and financial services.   
Const ruction/real estate .  Construction ac tivity remained weak in January and February . 
Residential development was  at a standstill, with very few substantial new projects expected to 
come on -line in the near future. In contrast, interest in  investing in existi ng apartment buildings was 
indicated to be very strong. Contacts did, however, expect that residential construction would 
 
 VII-2 
increase  some  through the spring as developers meet demand stemming from th e homebuyer tax 
credit that expires in April.   To do so, m ost builders are working solely off existing lots given the 
large inventory of distressed land still available for sale. Demand remained  weak  for nonresidential 
construction. T he overha ng of vacant buildings continued  to hold back commercial and industrial  
construction. Infrastructure construction  was the lone bright spot with the federal stimulus bill 
funding providing some boost .  
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing ac tivity  gradually improve d in January and February . 
Orders  increased , primarily  reflecting the  restock ing of  inventories.  In contrast, contacts  noted  that 
order backlogs were declining and customers were hesitant to place new bookings  much beyond the 
first quarter . The auto industry remained a strong source of growth in manufacturing , as did 
pharm aceuticals . Steady i mprovement was also noted in steel and heavy  machinery , particularly 
sales of  mining and agriculture  equipment . Demand from Asia continued to propel export activity; 
but with growth in the Chinese economy expected to slow, contacts thou ght export activity would  
recede some in the near future. Manufacturers with ties to residential or commercial construct ion 
were much less positive, and did not expect  to see much of a recovery in 2010.  However, a contact 
noted that dealer inventor ies of heavy equipment had returned to  a more normal  level  and indicated 
that distributors were being told  to prepare for an increase in shipments  by a large manufacturer of 
heavy equipment .  Thi s was seen as providing justification for a n expected  pick-up in 
manufacturing activity in the second half of the year.  
Banking/finance .  Reports on c redit conditions  were little chan ged from the previous 
reporting period . Banking contacts reported that business loan demand  remained low  with 
utilization of credit  lines  continuing to decline . Consumer credit conditions, on the other hand, 
continued to slowly improve with auto lendin g leading the way. C ontacts noted that many of their 
business and consumer  clients  were still  waiting for the uncertainty surrounding t he economic 
outlook to pass before taking on new debt.  Several indicated , however, that with the significant 
decline s in loan volume  in rece nt months, competition for high -credit -quality, high -return cu stomers 
was beginning to pick up  slowly . This was espe cially true for larger banks where d eclines in  asset 
quali ty showed  further  signs of leveling off  in January and February . However, the strained balance 
sheets of many midsize banks continued  to limit  the availability of credit. Contacts generally 
expected that credit availability would increase only slowly in 2010, in line with their expectations 
for a gradual recovery in economic activity.  
 
 VII-3 
Prices/costs .  Price pressure s for most raw materials flatte ned out from the previous 
reporting period. In contrast, upward pressure on prices for industrial metals like steel and copper 
was expected to continue , as demand outstripped  capacity currently on -line. The colder than 
expected winter led to higher natural  gas prices, increasing energy costs.  However, contacts 
indicated that natural gas in storage remained very high and  that the current pressure on prices was  
likely to be temporary.  Pass-through of cost  pressures t o downst ream prices was small on balance , 
as contacts indicated pricing power remained limited  in many industries . Wage pressures were 
reported to be minimal . 
Agriculture .  News that last fall’s corn harvest was a record triggered declines in the price 
of corn, even though a higher than typical pe rcentage of corn acres remained unharvested. T here 
continued to be problems with the quality of corn in s torage, leading to price discounts at delivery. 
Higher than normal drying costs compressed corn margins , too. In contrast, high quality grain was 
selling at a premium reflecting in part export demand. With much field preparation work left  
undone last fall and above normal snows  this winter , weather this spring will play a larger role than 
typical in  planting decisions . Hog and cattle prices moved up duri ng the reporting period, although 
dairy prices flattened out . Feed costs declined wi th corn and soybean prices, and financial pressures 
on livestock producers lessened from those experienced during a challenging 2009. Still , contacts 
reported that refinancing agricultural loans was more difficult than in recent years.  
 
 
 
 
 VIII -1 
Eighth District - St. Louis  
Summary  
Economic conditions in the Eighth District were mixed but showed further signs of improvement 
in some areas.  Manufacturing activity, in particular, increased since our previous report.  Services 
activity, in contrast, declined since our previous report.  Retail sales were down in January and February 
over a year ago, while auto sales were about even over the same period.  Residential real estate market 
conditions were mixed while commercial and industrial residential ma rkets remained slow.  Overall 
lending at a sample of large District banks decreased moderately during the fourth quarter of 2009.  
Consumer Spending  
Contacts reported that retail sales in January and early February were down, on average, over 
year-earlier l evels.  About 52 percent of the retailers saw decreases in sales, while 32 percent saw 
increases and 16 percent saw no changes.  About 53 percent of the respondents noted that sales levels met 
their expectations, 42 percent reported that sales were below e xpectations, and 5 percent reported that 
sales were above expectations.  Lower -priced items and men’s apparel were strong sellers, while higher -
priced items moved more slowly.  About 64 percent of the contacts noted that inventories were at desired 
levels,  while 20 percent reported too -high inventories and 16 percent reported too -low inventories.  The 
sales outlook among the retailers was mostly positive  for March and April.  About 54 percent of the 
retailers expect sales to increase over 2009 levels, while  25 percent expect sales to decrease and 21 
percent expect sales to be similar to last year.  
Car dealers in the District reported that, compared with last year, sales in January and early 
February were roughly the same , on average.  About 55 percent of th e car dealers surveyed saw decreases 
in sales, while 41 percent saw increases and 4 percent saw no changes.  About 32 percent reported an 
increase in low -end vehicle sales relative to high -end vehicle sales, while 14 percent reported the 
opposite.  About 3 0 percent reported more acceptances of finance applications, but another 30 percent 
reported more rejections.  About 27 percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their inventories 
were too low, while 18 percent reported that their inventories were too high.  The sales outlook among the 
 VIII -2 
car dealers was generally optimistic for March and April.  About 68 percent of the car dealers expect sales 
to increase over 2009 levels, but 27 percent expect sales to decrease.  The remaining 5 percent expect 
sales to be similar to last year.  
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  
Manufacturing activity increased since our previous survey .  More  contacts reported plans to 
expand or start new operations  and increase employment than contacts who  reported  that order volumes 
remain slow and that they  have no plans to expand employment.  Several firms in auto parts 
manufacturing reported an increase in new orders and are expanding operations and hiring new 
employees accordingly.  Firms  in aerospace products; furniture; cosmetics; and heating, ventilation , and 
air conditioning manufacturing announced expansion plans.  Firms in plastic products and fabricated 
metal products also announced plans to open new plants in the D istrict and expand employment.  In 
contrast, a small er number of firms reported that order volumes remain slow  and anticipate  negative 
effects on employment.  A firm in animal slaughtering and processing announced that it will close its 
operations, resulting in a large number of job losses.  
Employment in th e District's service sector contracted since our previous report. Several contacts 
in business support services announced layoffs.  Similarly, firms in transportation/warehousing and 
medical services announced large job cuts.  A firm in the leisure/hospita lity business declared bankruptcy, 
resulting in a large number of seasonal job losses.  In contrast, two firms in medical services announced 
an expansion in their local regions, with new facilities and additional hires.  
Real Estate and Construction  
Home sa les were mixed throughout the Eighth District.  Compared with the same period in 2008, 
December 2009 year -to-date home sales were up 3 percent in Louisville and 1 percent in St. Louis  while 
home sales were down 2 percent in Little Rock and 10 percent in Me mphis.  Residential construction 
continued to decline throughout most of the District.  December 2009 year -to-date single -family housing 
permits fell in most District metro areas compared with the same period in 2008.  Permits declined 4 
percent in Little Rock, 13 percent in St. Louis , 15 percent in Louisville, and 32 percent in Memphis.  
 VIII -3 
Commercial an d industrial real estate market conditions remained slow  throughout the District.  
Compared with the third quarter of 200 9, fourth -quarter 2009 industrial vacancy rates increased in Little 
Rock and Louisville but decreased in Memphis and St. Louis .  During the same period, the suburban 
office vacancy rate increased in Louisville but decreased in St. Louis , Memphis, and Littl e Rock.  The 
downtown office vacancy rate increased in Louisville and Little Rock but remained the same in St. Louis  
and Memphis.  A contact in northeast Arkansas reported that construction is at a standstill with the 
exception of a large hospital project.   A contact in Evansville, IN , noted that major construction projects 
are lagging and that improvement is not expected for six to twelve months.  
Banking and Finance  
A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks showed a moderate decr ease 
in overall lending activity during the fourth quarter of 2008.  During this period, credit standards for 
commercial and industrial loans remained unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from about 
the same to moderately stronger.  Credit standa rds for commercial real estate loans were tightened 
somewhat, while demand for these loans was about the same.  Meanwhile, credit standards for consumer 
loans remained unchanged, while demand ranged from about the same to weaker.  Credit standards for 
residential mortgage loans ranged from unchanged to tightened somewhat, while demand for these loans 
ranged from about the same to moderately weaker.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
Total production of corn, soybeans, and rice increased from 2008 to 2009 in the District states, 
while total production of sorghum, winter wheat, cotton, and tobacco decreased.  In the District states, t he 
prices of corn, winter wheat, rice, and tobacco decreased from 2008 to 2009 while the price of cotton 
increased; the prices of  soybeans and sorghum were down in most District states.  The total value of field 
crops in District states fell by 7 percent from 2008 to 2009.  
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT --MINNEAPOLIS  
The Ninth District economy grew modestly  since  the last report . Consumer spending, 
services, energy, mining  and residential  construction  and real estate saw slight  increases. 
Tourism was mixed , while m anufacturing  and commercial construction  were stable . 
Commercial real estate and agriculture were  down . Softness in labor markets continued, 
but the pace of weakening has slowed . Meanwhile, wages were stable  and o verall price 
increases remained subdued .  
Consumer Spending and T ourism  
Overall consumer spending increased modestly. A Minn esota -based restaurant and bar 
chain  reported that recent same -store sales were above year -earlier levels. A movie 
theater in Minnesota reported that ticket sales were up during January. In th e 
Minneapolis area , a “value -oriented” mall reported that traffic was up over 5 percent in 
January compared with a year ago; however, a South Dakota mall reported that traffic 
was down in January from last year,  in large part due to inclement weather. A ma jor 
Minneapolis -based retailer reported that same -store sales in January  were essentially flat  
compared with a year earlier. A bank director noted that retailers have been willing to 
take a lower margin on inventory to generate sales activity and cover costs where 
possible.   
A representative of an auto dealers association in Montana observed that recent 
business at a number of dealerships improved a bit. However, a Minnesota auto dealer 
noted that sales of new and used vehicles in January were down subst antially, but were 
picking up somewhat during February.  
Winter tourism was mixed. A representative of a Minnesota travel agency 
reported that leisure travel increased considerably in January compared with a year ago. 
Favorable snow conditions helped boost  lodging revenue in northwestern Wisconsin. 
Recent ski visit numbers were relatively flat at a Montana ski resort, while lodging 
revenue was down due to fewer guests and discounted pricing. Tourism activity was 
down somewhat in the Upper Peninsula of Michi gan, according to a tourism official.  
Construction and Real Estate  
Commercial construction was steady at low l evels. The value of January non residential 
permits in Rochester, Minn., increased from the same month a year earlier ; commercial 
IX-2 
permits in Fargo,  N.D., were down from a year earlier. Meanwhile, a  $20 million airport 
terminal building in Duluth, Minn., was in the early stages of development. Residential 
construction increased. The value of January residential permits in the Minneapolis -St. 
Paul area  increased 16 percent from a year ago. New residential permits in Sioux Falls, 
S.D., increased 15 percent in value in January from the previous year, and remodeling 
activity increased as well.  
 Commercial real estate continued its slump. Overall vacancy fo r office, retail and 
industrial properties in the Minneapolis -St. Paul area reached its highest level in nearly 
20 years, even with large decreases in lease prices; the retail sector was particularly hard 
hit. A commercial real estate firm in South Dakota noted that occupancy was down 
slightly and businesses were staying with current leases as opposed to expanding.  A 
commercial real estate broker in Fargo said markets there we re flat.  
The residential real estate market saw continued signs of improvement. T he 
January median sales price in the Minneapolis -St. Paul area increased more than 1 
percent from the previous January, the first year -over-year increase in 41 months. Home 
sales in Bismarck, N.D., and Sioux Falls increased as well.  
Services  
Overall activity increased  in the professional business services  sector  since the last report . 
Contacts from information technology firms reported solid orders but noted some 
difficulties in collecting fees. Web development firms reported improved  activity with 
backlogs ranging from a few weeks to a few months. A contact from a health care firm 
indicated that demand for core services was solid, while orders for elective procedures 
were soft . A bank director noted that legal fees were flat to down from a year ago. A 
Minnesota architectural firm’s recent revenue was lower than  a year ago.  
Manufacturing  
Manufacturing output  was flat since the last report . A January  survey of purchasing 
managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed  that manufacturing activity  
was relatively level  in Minnesota  and the Dakotas . An electronic equipment maker  in 
North Dakota reduced production at two plants.  A Montana cement maker restarted 
production after a three -month shutdown . A plastic pipe producer plans to start a plant in 
South Dakota.  
 
IX-3 
Energy and Mining  
Activity  in the energy and mining sectors increased since the last report . Mid-February  oil 
exploration increased from mid-December . Wind energy project s are under construction in 
the western portion of the District . Meanwhile, activity at Montana copper, platinum and 
gold mines was brisk during the past few months.  Permits were issued for a copper and 
nickel mill processing facility in the Upper Peninsula.  January iron ore production was 
estimated to have increased slightly from December 2009 levels.  
Agriculture  
Agricultur al activity was down . The Minneapolis Fed’s fourth -quarter ( January ) survey 
of agricultural credit conditions indicated that lenders expect overall agricultural income 
and spending to decrease in the first quarter . Several w inter storms rolled though the 
District since the last report , causing stress on livestock.  
Employment, Wages and Prices  
Softness in labor markets continued, but the pace of weakening has slowed. Minnesota 
unemployment insurance claims were up about 3 percent in January compared with a 
year earlier ; however,  increases in unemployment insurance claims have leveled off 
during the past three months. A medical insurer in Minnesota recently announced plans to 
lay off 150 employees , while a financial firm announced plans to cut 25 positions in 
South Dakota. By cont rast, a business that processes employee applications in Minnesota 
will hire an additional 50 employees , and a bank recently announced plans to hire more 
brokers.   
Wage rates remained stable. A Montana bank director noted that most business 
contacts in his  area expect no increases in wages or benefits in 2010.  
Overall price increases remained subdued, with some noted exceptions. Bank 
directors repo rted price increases in freight and  health care costs, and some price hikes in 
plastics and other petroleum -based products . Meanwhile, construction inputs and bidding 
prices were down. Some decreases in fertilizer and herbicide prices were expected for the 
upcoming year. Minnesota gaso line prices were down about 15 cents per gallon in mid -
February from mid -January . 
 
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT  - KANSAS CITY  
 
The Tenth District economy  show ed further  signs of modest  growth  in January and 
February .  However, some u nexpected weakness was noted in several sectors of the District 
economy due to bad weather .  Consumer spending was flat  compared to year ago levels  with 
continued softness  in au to sales .  Manufacturing activity expanded but did not  translate into 
additional  factory hiring .  Residential real estate markets  continued to benefit from  tax credits , 
while commercial real estate weakened further .  District banks reported continued weak loan 
demand.  Energy firms expanded  drilling activity , especially for natural gas .  In agriculture, 
growing  conditions remained favorable  for crops , while  profit margins  improved for livestock 
producers.  Despite higher input prices , retail prices remain ed unchanged  and little evidence of 
wage pressures was reported  in District  labor markets . 
Consumer Spending.   District retailers report ed that sales in January and February were 
weaker  than expected and  flat relative to last year.  Reta ilers with highly seasonal post -holiday 
sales noted particular  weakness.  S ome District retailers, especially mall operators, attributed the 
weakness in sales to winter storms.  Retailers nonetheless remained optimistic that a rebound in 
retail activity will occur in the coming quarter .  Light car and truck sales remained in a 
downward trend  but inventories continued to decline and few auto dealers expressed  concern 
with excess  inventory levels.  The l odging industry noted improved  hotel occupancy rates  in the  
January and February survey period.  Some h oteliers indicated  that the occupancy  bounce was 
likely seasonal in nature  but reported  improved  expectations for both occupancy and room rates.  
Mountain resort markets registered  only a modest rebound in winter tourism  relative to year ago  
activity . 
Manufacturing  and Other Business Activity .  The Tenth District ’s manufacturing and 
transportation  sectors  expanded  further , although  high-tech firms reported weaker  business 
conditions .  District  manufacturers reported increased  production, shipment volumes, and new 
orders in the latest survey period .  District manufacturing activity has increased steadily since last 
September and production has returned to near year ago levels.   Manufacturers remained 
optimistic that new orders would be higher in six months;  however backlogs were minimal  and 
well bel ow year ago levels .  Few manufacturing firms increased  hiring , though expectations for 
 
 X-2  
future hiring improved markedly in  the latest survey period.   Transportation firms reported a 
strong cyclical rebound in business activity consistent with continued stab ilization  in overall 
District activity.  High -tech firms noted weaker business activity along with subdued  
expectations for improved business conditions in the coming quarter .  Current and future 
expectations of capital spending activity  among  high-tech firms also diminished  in the survey 
period.  The lack of venture capital funding  remained a concern for high -tech companies, 
especially among alternative e nergy and software development firms.  
Real Estate and Construction .  Residential real estate act ivity improved slightly  while 
commercial real estate continued to deteriorate .  Residential builders reported increased building 
permits and housing starts.  Sales in residential real estate increased  modestly  but home prices in 
the District remained flat.   Demand remained strong  for starter homes  but the strength was not 
expected to continue once the homebuyer tax credit expires in April.  Upper end home sales 
remained depressed.  Mortgage refinancing activity decreased amid increasing interest rates.  
Construction supply firms noted  increased activity  in residential construction but no movement 
in comm ercial.  Commercial real estate respondents reported  anemic  conditions , including 
decreasing sales  volumes , rents and prices , and increasing vacancy rates with little to no 
expectation of conditions improving  in the next quarter.   Weakness in  commercial construction 
during  the survey period was attributed to  poor weather in January and February , while  tight 
lending conditions co ntinued to be  cited throughout the industr y as an impediment to long run 
growth .  Real estate and construction contacts reported  limited contribution from  stimulus -
funded projects to business activity or hiring in the reporting  period . 
Banking.  Bankers reported lower loan demand, unchanged deposits, and a slightly 
improved outlook for loan quality.  Overall loan demand declined at about the same pace as in 
the previous survey.  Demand fell moderately for commercial and industrial loans, commercia l 
real estate loans, and consumer installment loans.   Demand for residential real estate loans 
declined modestly.  A few banks tightened credit standards on commercial real estate loans but 
credit standards for other loan categories were little changed.  Somewhat fewer banks than in the 
previous survey reported a decline in loan quality from a year ago.  Respondents were also 
slightly less pessimistic about loan quality in the next six months.  For the second consecutive 
survey, deposits were unchanged.  A  few respondents said they had little incentive to obtain 
 
 X-3  
deposits due to lack of loan demand.    
Energy.   Energy industry activity continued to expand in the latest reporting period.   
Natural gas  producers expressed  cautious optimis m that a near term  floor had been established  
for natural gas  prices but remained  concern ed that expanding supplies from  shale gas production  
would push prices down in the future .  District rig counts  continued to increase  in the latest 
reporting period  with improved expectations for  drilling -related capital expenditures in the 
coming quarter.   New drilling activity  was largely concentrated in horizontal gas wells  in 
Oklahoma.   Wyoming coal production remained more than ten percent  below year ago levels . 
Agriculture .    Agricultural conditions improved since the last survey period.  The winter 
wheat crop was reported in generally good condition with limited reports of freeze damage due to 
frigid temperatures and variable snow cover.  Extreme winter weather contributed t o below 
average weight gain for cattle and caused producers to provide supplemental feed.  Cattle and 
hog prices strengthened in recent weeks, boosting profit opportunities.  Crop prices edged down 
from their post -harvest peaks.  Still, cropland values str engthened following the bumper fall 
harvest.  Ranchland values, however, remained below year -ago levels amid weak demand for 
pasture ground.  Stronger farm incomes led to a rise in loan repayment rates and fewer reports of 
loan renewals and extensions.  Di strict contacts reported ample funds were available for farm 
loans at historically low interest rates.  
Wages and Prices .   Raw materials prices increased although selling prices and wages 
remained flat.  District manufacturers reported raw materials prices pushed above year ago levels 
in the latest survey period.  Two -thirds of District manufacturers expected the upward trend in 
raw materials prices to continue into the next six months .  Selling prices rem ained flat across the 
District  since the last survey period but were generally below  a year ago.  Most  respondents 
expected  price s to hold steady over the next few months.   Firms continued to report little 
evidence of wage pressures across District labor m arkets  and d id not expect any pressure in the 
near future.  
XI-1 
 
ELEVENTH DISTRICT —DALLAS   
 
Economic activity improved further in the Eleventh District over the past six week s. Firms across 
a wide range of industries continued to report slight increases  in demand. However, conditions in a few 
sectors, n otably  commercial real estate, financial services and construction -related manufacturing 
remain ed weak. Outlooks were generally more upbeat than last time.  
 Prices    Price pressures remain ed minimal  across industries. Most contacts said prices were 
holding steady , although a few firms noted they were making concessions in order to get business.  Raw 
material prices were mostly stable, but there were reports of an uptick in the cost of fiber and some 
industrial metals . Most firms that saw an uptick in raw material costs said they were unable to pass on 
these increases to customers.  
 Energy prices declined slightly from early January to mid -February . Crude oil prices trended 
downward from $82 to $7 9 per barrel . On-highway diesel prices followed suit, falling nearly 10 cents 
over the same period . Natural gas prices slipped from $6 per thousand cubic feet to near $5, even as 
colder -than-normal weather trimmed bloated inventori es back to near -normal lev els. Contacts say that the 
approaching end of winter  is keeping natural gas prices relatively steady . In contrast, p rices of chemicals 
and related products rose during the reporting period . 
Labor Market    Most respondents noted st eady employment levels. Still, there were scattered 
reports of layoffs at selected retail, high -tech, emergency vehicle and construction -related manufacturing 
firms. On a positive note, staffing firms continued to report increased hiring activity . In addition,  there 
were reports of an uptick in staff levels at some energy service , food , high -tech and transportation 
manufacturing firms . 
Wage pressures were nonexistent . A few firms reported they either had already given , or planned 
on giving small pay increases  to employees this year . In contrast, real estate contacts noted that people 
were taking jobs at reduced salaries.  
 Manufacturing    Construction -related manufacturers report  that demand continues to bounce 
along the bottom .  There is excess capacity in the  industry  and margins remain depressed . The outlook is 
still bleak, especially for manufacturers tied to commercial construction.  Fabricated metals producers 
noted a slight uptick in orders, however, demand remains below year -ago levels.  
 Reports from tran sportation manufactur ers were mixed. Producers  of trailers reported steady 
demand  over the past month , but said that orders were up both from three months and year -ago levels. 
Emergency vehicle m anufacturers noted a cut back in production , and added that the outlook had 
weakened . An automobile manufacturer reported that sales in Texas are holding up better than in other 
parts of the country and the outlook is “bright”, with steady growth expected throughout the year . 
XI-2 
 
 Reports from the paper industry were m ixed. A large corrugated box manufacturer repor ted a 
moderate pickup in demand  while other contacts, especially those tied to the construction sector , noted 
continued weak ness. Respondents expect 2010 to  be stronger than last year. Food  manufacturers cited an 
increase in demand over the past month , and reported a positive sales outlook for the year . 
 High-tech manufacturers report  continued strong growth in orders and production.  Demand for 
semiconductors remains solid, and respondents say they are struggling to keep up with demand.  
Inventories are at very lean levels, and most contacts expect demand to remain robust over the nex t three 
to six months.  
 Petrochemical demand was mixed. Demand for products tied to domestic manufacturing rose 
further, while producers that sell to residential and commercial construction said domestic sales remained 
weak. Export demand is still strong d ue to the cost advantage of U.S. natural -gas based products over 
foreign oil -based ones , but producers say that this cost advantage has narrowed in recent weeks.  
 Depressed demand for refined products has further weakened margins, and contacts say refiner s 
are respond ing with further cuts in utilization rates. Currently r ates are below 80 percent , which excluding  
weather -related shut -ins, are among  the lowest utilization rates over the past twenty -five years .  
  Retail    Retail demand held  up relatively well during the reporting per iod. Contacts say y ear-
over-year sales have  improved, however, comparisons are favorable because of the weakness in year -ago 
numbers. Department store results were slightly better than expected. Consumers remain pri ce conscious . 
Outlooks are still  cautious , and  contacts expect only a modest improvement in business th is year.  
Automobile dealers report seasonal softness in sales over the past six weeks. Inventories remain 
lean, and contacts expect gradual improvement in sales throughout the year.  
 Services    Staffing firms report continued improvement in demand. Orders are streaming in at a 
solid pace and billable hours are up.  Demand is still largely for contract work, but direct hire placements 
have recently  picked up from low levels . Staffing industry c ontacts were  more upbeat in their outlook 
compared with the previous reporting period.  
 Contacts in accounting services say strong demand for tax and audit services is outpacing  
continued weakness in a dvisory  and performance improvement service s. Demand for legal services 
remains sluggish . 
 Reports from transportation service firms are mixed. Intermodal firms report no change in cargo 
volumes over the past month as  the rise in exports is being  offset by a decline in imports. Contacts in 
railroad transportation cite a widespread  increase in cargo volumes,  and noted that the outlook is more 
upbeat  than last time. Airline demand appears to be recovering, with leisure travel seeing continued 
growth, b usiness tr avel improving  and fares stabilizing.  Contacts note that demand for air travel is 
expected to be flat to slightly up this year . 
XI-3 
 
 Construction an d Real Estate   Housing contacts said new home construction picked up 
recently in response to relatively tight inventories and the first -time homebuyer tax credit. In both new 
and existing home markets,  sales of lower priced homes remain ed the strongest. Sales of higher  priced 
homes were weak, reflecting difficulties in obtaining financing for larger loans. Builder  outlooks were 
slightly more optimistic for 2010.  
 Commercial real estate activity remains depressed . There is continued d ownward pressure on 
rents. Office leasing activity is still falling , albeit at a slower pace. Demand for industrial space declined 
further in Dallas, but improved s lightly  in Houston. Investment sales transactions remain low due to the 
tight lending environment, but contacts report that investors are watching closely for bargains. 
Commercial construction activity is still weak and outlo oks remain grim, with most contacts expecting no 
improvement until 2011.  
 Financial Services    Financial service firms continued  to report feeble  demand for consumer and 
commerc ial loans. Real estate lending  remained scarce due to stringent regulatory requirements , and 
contacts at community banks expressed concern about the possible effects of these regulatory 
requirements on their ability to expand . Some contacts said they were  beginning to see an improvement in 
loan quality , with falling delinquencies  and declining charge -offs. The outlook remain ed cautious but 
some contacts were hopeful that they may see a pickup in loan demand by year end.  
Energy    Drilling activity  rose strongly during the reporting period . Gas-directed drilling grew 
faster than oil -directed activity, reversing the trend  seen in prior months . Oil field  activity has improved 
along with  the uptick in drilling, and contacts say capacity is beginning to tighten in selected lines of 
activity and in some geographic areas. Contacts are hopeful that the current expansion will last through 
the first half of 2010 , as their customers continue to drill in order to secure leases, learn the  new shale 
technology or simply because they anticipate being profitable a t current prices.  
 Agriculture   Heavy  rains and snow fall have boosted crop and pasture conditions . There is 
excellent subsoil moisture going into the spring planting season , which has improv ed the crop outlook for 
2010 .  Though heavy precipitation  has been beneficial , it has resulted in some crop losses and could delay 
spring planting if fields do not dry out in time. Livestock are in fair to good condition , and producers are 
using supplemental feeding to compensate for the harsh winter weather and wet pasture conditions.  
 
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT –SAN FRANCISCO  
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District  appeared to increase modestly  during the reporting 
period of  early  January through late February.   Upward  pressures on prices and wages remained quite 
limited.   Sales of r etail items  and services generally stayed  at low levels, but both  showed  some 
improvement.  Manufacturing activity  was mixed but appeared to pick up  further  on balance .  Sales 
continued to expand for agricultural producers, while demand for energy resources fell.  Home demand 
appeared to be little changed from the previous period , but demand for commercial real estate continued 
to slide .  Contacts from financial institutions  reported that lo an dema nd was largely unchanged and credit 
standards remained tight . 
Wages and Prices  
 Upward price pressures  were very modest on net  during the reporting period.  Commodity prices 
were stable or down in general, with declines noted for natural gas, copper, and a luminum.   Weak 
demand continued to hold down prices for various services  and most retail items, with extensive  
discounting  reported for the latter .  Nearly three -fourths of respondents anticipate that prices for the goods 
and services sold in their respective industries will remain largely stable  during 2010; of the remainder, 
the number expecting declines was slightly higher than the number expec ting increases.  
 Contacts  in most sectors  characterized wages as essentially flat , although some businesses 
reported significant increases in the costs of employee benefits, especially  for health  insurance .  Upward 
wage pressures were limited by h igh unemployment and restricted  hiring  in most sectors and regions .  An 
overwhelming majority of respondents expect  no change in the ir firm’s employment counts for at least  
the first half of the year, and they expect limited hiring to hold down wage pressures going forward.   
Retail Trade and Services  
  Retail sales continued to firm but remained sluggish  on net.  Both discount chains and traditional 
department stores  reported sales  increases , with scattered reports pointing to a slight pickup in consumers ’ 
appeti tes for discretionary spending.  Sales were characterized as flat for grocers  and retailers of furniture, 
XII - 2 
appliances, and electronic items.   New automobile sales  slipped somewhat, although  the reports suggest ed 
that consumer interest rose in recent weeks , perhaps signaling  improved sales in the near term .  For used 
automobiles,  reduced availab ility held back sales  somewhat and caused prices to rise .  Unit sales of 
gasoline were running slightly below thei r levels from 12 months earlier, despite modest price de clines  in 
recent weeks.  
 Demand for services continued to be weak overall but showed signs of improvement since the 
last reporting period.   Sales remained sluggish for providers of professional and media services, although 
scattered increases in demand were noted  for some categories .  Similarly, restaurant s and other food-
service firms  stated that they are slowly seeing signs of recovery  in demand .  Providers of health -care 
services reported an increase  in patient volumes .  Conditions remained challengin g for businesses  in the 
tourism and leisure sector, although further signs of improvement were reported:  contacts in Southern 
California and Seattle noted that hotel occupancy rates appear to have  stabilized, while contacts in Hawaii 
and Las Vegas noted o ngoing increases  in visitor volumes.   
Manufacturing  
  District manufacturing activity remained  mixed but  picked up further on balance during the 
reporting period of  early  January through late February .  Demand strengthened further for manufacturers 
of semiconductors, with high levels of capacity utilization and balanced inventories noted.  New orders 
continued to be  very limited for m akers of commercial aircraft and parts , but the existing order backlog 
helped keep production activity at or near the prior pace .  Demand and c apacity utilization for metal  
fabricat ors remained at exceptionally low levels .  Manufacturers of wood product s also continued to face 
very weak demand, although  a slight pickup was noted .   Activity at petroleum refi neries remained well 
below the  five-year average  levels , prompting refinery closures or sales  in some cases .   
Agriculture and Resource -related Industries  
 Sales  grew further for agricultural products , but demand declined  a bit for extractors of natural 
resources used for energy production .  Sales rose for assorted  crops and livestock products, and reports 
indicated that inputs were  readily available.   Contacts noted that favorable  weather, including  substantial 
XII - 3 
moisture, have enhanced production conditions for crops and livestock .  Oil extraction activity  and capital 
spending in that industry continued to be held down by weak global demand , while demand for natural 
gas slid a bit as a result of unseasonably warm weather in  some parts of the District.   
Real Estate an d Construction  
 
 Demand for housing appeared to be little changed on net , while demand for commercial real 
estate slid further.  The pace of home sales was mixed across areas but  appear ed to be  largely unchanged  
after adjusting for normal seasonal variation .  Home p rices reportedly rose a bit further in some areas of 
the District.  However , the number of available homes  for sale  remained elevated , which substantially 
offset builders’ incentives to increase the pac e of new home construction.  Demand slid further for 
commercial real estate, and tenants continued to push for  and often achieve rent concessions and other 
favorable  terms through renegotiat ion of existing leases.  However, one contact noted an increase in 
leasing activity in some segments of the major markets in the District, as well as slightly improved 
availability of financing for new commercial development and investment transactions.  
Financial Institutions  
 Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan demand was largely unchanged from  
the prior reporting period.  Consumer loan demand remained weak on net, and commercial and industrial 
loan volumes continued at low levels , as business owners rema ined quite cautious about their capital 
spending  and hiring  plans.  Lending standards continued to be relatively restrictive for  most types of  
consumer and business l oans, and contacts reported further loan losses.  Venture capital financing 
remained a bri ght spot, with contacts noting  further  improv ements in le vels of investment funds and IPO 
activity.  