              F o r  use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
              W e d n e s d a y                June 6, 2012 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
  
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
May 2012 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
  
MAY 2012 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
SUMMARY ....................................................................................................................... .............. i 
First District – Boston ....................................................................................................... ............ I-1 
Second District – New York  ................................................................................................... ....II-1 
Third District – Philadelphia ................................................................................................. ..... III-1 
Fourth District – Cleveland ................................................................................................... .... IV -1 
Fifth District – Richmond ..................................................................................................... ...... V-1 
Sixth District – Atlanta ...................................................................................................... ........ VI-1 
Seventh District – Chicago .................................................................................................... ... VII-1 
Eighth District – St. Louis ................................................................................................... ... VIII-1 
Ninth District – Minneapolis .................................................................................................. ... IX-1 
Tenth District – Kansas City .................................................................................................. ..... X-1 
Eleventh District – Dallas .................................................................................................... ...... XI-1 
Twelfth District – San Francisco ..............................................................................................  XII-1 
i 
 
Summary* 
 
 Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest overall economic activity 
expanded at a moderate pace during the reporting period from early April to late May. Activity 
in the New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Ka nsas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts 
was characterized as growing at a moderate pace, while the Richmond, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts noted mode st growth. Boston reported stea dy growth, and the Philadelphia 
District indicated that the pace of expansion had slowed slightly  since the previous Beige Book. 
Manufacturing continued to expand in mo st Districts. Consumer spending was 
unchanged or up modestly. New vehicle sales rema ined strong and inventories of some popular 
models were tight. Sales of us ed automobiles held steady. Travel and tourism expanded, boosted 
by both the business and leisure segments. Dema nd for nonfinancial services was generally 
stable to slightly higher sin ce the last report, and several Di stricts noted strong growth in 
information technology services. Conditions in re sidential and commercial real estate improved. 
Construction picked up in many areas of the country. Lenders in most Districts noted an 
improvement in loan demand and credit conditions. Agricultural conditions generally improved, 
and spring planting was well ahead of its norma l pace in most reporting Districts. Energy 
production and exploration continued to expand, except for coal producers who noted a slight 
slowing in activity.  
Wage pressures overall were  modest. Hiring was steady or  increased slightly, and 
contacts in a number of Distri cts reported difficulties in findi ng qualified workers, particularly 
those with specialized skills. Price inflation remained modest across Districts, and overall cost pressures eased as the price of energy inputs declined. Economic outlooks remain positive, but contacts were slightly more guarded in their optimism.  
 
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing continued to expand, and most Districts reported ga ins in production or 
new orders. The only exceptions were from the Ph iladelphia, Richmond and St. Louis Districts, 
where factory activity was mixed or had softened slightly. Demand appeared  to be the strongest 
                                                 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas a nd based on information colle cted on or before May 
25, 2012. This document summarizes comments recei ved from business and other contacts outside the 
Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.  
ii 
 
in auto and steel manufacturing. Reports from th e Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis 
Districts noted vibrant activity fo r auto manufacturers, and an auto  maker in the Atlanta District 
reported plans to add a third shift to keep up with increased global demand. Steel manufacturing 
remained robust, with contacts in the Chicago Di strict reporting the high est capacity utilization 
rates since the end of the rece ssion and firms in the St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts noting 
plans to upgrade or expand operations. Producer s of semiconductors and high-tech equipment 
saw continued growth in orders in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts. Aircraft and parts 
makers noted further increases in orders accord ing to reports from Bo ston, Richmond, and San 
Francisco, while the Dallas District repor ted steady demand. Demand for agricultural and 
construction equipment remained strong according to  the Chicago District report, and industrial 
machinery manufacturers in the Philadelphia District noted gains. Food producers in the 
Philadelphia and Dallas Districts noted solid  demand for their products, and pharmaceutical 
manufacturers in the San Francisc o District reported robust activ ity. Activity at refineries and 
petrochemical manufacturing facilities expande d further. Demand for construction-related 
products improved in the Dallas Di strict, and orders for lumber and wood products increased in 
most reporting Districts.  
Hiring at manufacturing firms was mixed, but manufacturers in  some Districts reported 
difficulty finding qualified workers such as we lders. Capital spending plans in most reporting 
Districts were positive. Ongoing capital investments and plans for future capacity expansions 
were reported by various manufactur ers in the Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City 
Districts. Firms in the Cleveland District not ed spending on capital out lays was on track, while 
producers in the Philadelphia Dist rict reported a decline in future spending plans since the 
previous report. Manufacturers’ outlooks were po sitive in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, 
and Kansas City Districts; howev er, contacts in a number of Di stricts were concerned that a 
slowdown in Europe and domestic political uncer tainty may affect future business conditions.  
 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Retail spending was flat to modestly positive in nearly all Districts. Firms in the 
Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts noted sales increased at a more modest pace than 
in the previous report, as unseas onably warm weather and an earli er Easter holiday had shifted 
sales into the previous reporti ng period. By contrast, warm spring weather continued to boost 
iii 
 
traffic and sales for retailers in the Philadel phia and Cleveland Distri cts. Sales of household 
goods increased in the Boston and Kansas City Distri cts, and gains in apparel sales were reported 
by the Boston and Dallas Districts. Sales of big ticket items declined in the Richmond and 
Chicago Districts, and there were a few reports of high fuel prices aff ecting consumer spending 
and sentiment. Inventories were generally at de sired levels and were being managed carefully. 
Outlooks were optimistic, and retailers in several Districts expect modest  sales growth in the 
near term. In particular, contacts  in the Kansas City District e xpect stronger sales growth in 
coming months, while some retailers in the Ch icago District plan to  add inventories in 
expectation of higher ba ck-to-school sales compared with last year. 
Automobile sales generally remained strong, although the pace of growth moderated in a 
few Districts. Sales of used ve hicles held steady, and a slight decline in prices was reported. 
Inventories of popular vehicles were tight. Outlooks were positive and contacts across several 
Districts expect steady growth in sales in coming months.  
Reports from most Distri cts pointed to continued strength in travel and tourism, bolstered 
by both the business and leisure segments. Favo rable spring weather sp urred tourism in the 
Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts. Time-share  rentals were strong in the Richmond District, 
and foreign visitors boosted activity in Florida as well as at theme parks in the Philadelphia 
District. Restaurants and food serv ice contacts in the Richmond, Kansas City, and San Francisco 
Districts noted increased sales. Ticket prices and attendance at Broadway theaters strengthened 
in the New York District, boosting revenues to  well above year-ago levels. Business travel 
picked up in the Boston, New York, and Atlanta Districts, and conven tion bookings were strong 
according to the Atlanta District. Hotel bookings  were strong in the Boston and New York 
Districts, and solid gains or hi gh levels of occupancy and room rental rates were noted by hotel 
contacts in most reporting Distri cts. Atlanta’s report noted that hospitality-related projects were 
underway in several area s of the District.  
 
Nonfinancial Services 
Demand for nonfinancial services  was generally stable to slightly stronger since the 
previous report. Several Dist ricts noted some growth in information technology services, 
including Boston, Richmond, Kansas City, Da llas, and San Francisco. Solid demand for 
healthcare services was also noted by some Districts.  
iv 
 
A few Districts said that activity expanded fo r professional and busine ss services, such as 
accounting, engineering, advertis ing, and legal services. The Boston District noted some 
renewed activity in the fina ncial sector, although engineeri ng and accounting demand remained 
weak. The Richmond District said architectural  engineering firms repor ted stronger revenues, 
and Minneapolis noted strength in  engineering near oil producing ar eas, in part due to planned 
future construction. Responding firms in the Dallas District noted strength in legal services and 
accounting.  
Advertising sales picked up in the Philadelphia and San Franci sco Districts, and air travel 
improved in the Dallas and San Francisco Distri cts. Freight transportation volumes moved higher 
in Cleveland, and railroad contacts in the A tlanta District noted con tinued growth. However, 
Kansas City’s report noted fl at activity in transportation, a nd the Dallas report noted mixed 
results from shipping firms.  
 
Real Estate and Construction 
Activity in residential real estate markets improved in most Districts since the previous 
report. Several Districts noted c onsistent indications of recovery in the single-family housing 
market, although the recovery was characterized as  fragile. The apartment market continued to 
improve, and multifamily construction increased in several Districts.   
Home sales were above year-ago levels in most  areas of the country and several Districts 
noted sales had improved since the previous re port, although some noted that the pace was well 
below the historical average. In particular, the New York, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts 
noted a pickup in the pace of distressed sales.  Residential brokers and some builders in the 
Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts said home sales were exceeding expectations. Contacts in the Richmond District said homes we re being snapped up as investors become more 
confident in the housing recover y, and the Atlanta report noted st ronger sales to cash buyers and 
investors in Florida. Chicago said more sale s had multiple offers. Apartment rental markets 
improved in the New York, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts. One contact from the New York 
District noted rising apar tment rents have made buying more at tractive, contributing to a slight 
uptick in sales.  
v 
 
Most Districts reported that  home inventories decreased. Ov erall, home prices remained 
unchanged in many Districts, alt hough reports were mixed. There we re a few reports that sellers 
were lowering asking prices, leading to  downward pressure on housing prices. 
New home construction increased in a number of Districts, includi ng Cleveland, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisc o. Contacts in the Philad elphia District said 
demand for new home construction eased slightly. Builders in Kansas City noted housing starts 
were down, but they expected an increase in th e next three months. The Boston, Atlanta, and 
Chicago Districts reported an in crease in multifamily construction, and the Minneapolis District 
noted numerous multifamily projects were in the pipeline.  
Commercial real estate cond itions improved in most Distri cts, and there were some 
reports that commercial construction picked up. Commercial leasing remained steady or 
increased in most Districts in cluding Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Fran cisco. The New York, Dallas, and San Francisco 
Districts noted growth in the technology sector was prompting the absorption of commercial 
space. Energy activity was helping boost demand for space in the Richmond and Dallas Districts. Boston’s relatively strong commercial market con tinued to generate robu st investor interest, 
although commercial property sales in the Ne w York District remained slow.   
  Build-to-suit construction was noted by the Boston and Philadelphia Districts. The New 
York District reported new office development pr ojects in the pipeline, and St. Louis’ report 
noted a pickup in speculative i ndustrial projects. The Richmond District said expansion in 
manufacturing led to a pickup in construction. Re ports from the Cleveland and Chicago Districts 
suggested an increase in hotels and higher educat ion projects, and a New York contact noted that 
interest in luxury hotel development increased. Outlooks were positive overall, although there 
were a few reports of increased uncertainty from  still unknown U.S. fiscal changes and Europe’s 
debt situation.  
Banking and Finance 
Most Districts that commented on lending noted  steady or slightly stronger loan demand. 
Small and medium-sized banks in the New York Di strict reported the most  broad-based increase 
in loan demand since the mid-1990s. Several banke rs in the Richmond District said the volume 
of small business loan applications was mark edly higher. Drivers of business loan demand 
vi 
 
included energy, healthcare, and commercial real  estate. Several Districts noted increased 
demand for capital spending loans. 
Reports on mortgage lending generally indi cated slow improvement. The New York 
District noted stronger mortgage  lending, although grow th in refinancing eased. The Cleveland 
District indicated strong mortga ge demand and a shift from home refinancing to new purchases. 
The Richmond District cited continued improve ment in mortgage demand, although refinancing 
still dominated much of the mortgage lending. The A tlanta District said that more applicants had 
ample cash for down payments or enough equity in their homes to meet refinancing requirements. Demand for commercial real estate loans was generally reported to be stronger. 
Districts reporting on consumer le nding noted steady demand, with some strength in auto loans.  
A number of Districts, incl uding Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicag o, Dallas, and San Francisco, 
said loan pricing remained quite competitive. New York District respondents noted a decrease in 
spreads of loan rates over the cost of funds, particularly for commercial mortgages. Lending 
standards were relatively unchanged to slightly ea sier across Districts and loan types. Bankers 
reporting on deposit growth indicate d that deposits were steady or continued to increase. Credit 
quality remained solid, and there were several re ports of improved loan quality. Most District 
banks said loan delinquenci es continued to decline. 
 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
 Agricultural conditions generally improved since the previous report. Rainfall provided 
much needed moisture in several parts of the Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. 
Spring planting and crop emergence was well ahead of the normal pace in most reporting Districts, and corn producers in the Chicago Distri ct were hopeful that th is promising start may 
result in a record harvest. Producers in the St. Lo uis, Kansas City, and Da llas Districts noted that 
the winter wheat crop was in fair-to-good c ondition. Farm incomes rose further in the 
Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts, and the San Francisco District reported further sales 
growth for most crop and livestock products. Producers in the Chicago and San Francisco 
Districts expressed concern that persiste nt dry conditions may undermine crop production. 
Although prices of most agricultu ral commodities declined, hog and cattle prices rose since the 
previous report. 
vii 
 
  Energy activity remained robust, with drilling expanding further in the Cleveland, 
Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Di stricts. Atlanta’s report noted that increased 
investment in transportation infrastructure was needed to accommodate the recent rise in domestic and Canadian energy production. Exploration and produc tion continued to shift away 
from dry-gas to wet-gas or oil-di rected drilling in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts in part 
due to low natural gas prices. Firms in the Kansas  City District said they would like to expand 
payrolls but reported difficulty finding engineers and experienced  field workers. Iron-ore and 
rock mining continued to expand at a strong pace according to the Minneapolis District report. In 
contrast, demand for coal slowed in  the Cleveland and St. Louis Dist ricts, and contacts noted that 
production was below year-ago levels. Limestone qua rries in the Mi nneapolis District continued 
to report sluggish demand.   
Employment, Wages and Prices  
 Hiring was steady or showed a modest increase.  Reports of hiring were  most prevalent in 
the manufacturing, construction, information t echnology, and professional services sectors. 
Staffing firms in the Cleveland a nd Dallas Districts noted a pickup in orders, and contacts in the 
Boston and Philadelphia District s reported steady growth in orders. Demand for temporary 
workers rose in the Richmond District, and severa l employers in the Minneapolis District noted a 
tightening labor market. New York’s report indi cated that demand for staffing services was 
mixed, but manufactures and other business contact s expect hiring to pick  up in coming months. 
Atlanta’s report pointed to posit ive employment growth in the District. Hiring remained limited 
in the Chicago District, and m odest employment increases were  noted in the San Francisco 
District report. There were wide spread reports that firms continued to face difficulty finding 
highly trained or skilled work ers—especially in informa tion technology, engineering, and 
manufacturing fields—and manufactur ers in the Chicago District said they were easing job 
requirements or using interns to fill open positio ns. Overall upward wage pressures continued to 
be fairly modest. There were reports of slight wage increases for skilled workers in the Boston, 
Cleveland, Minneapolis, Dallas a nd San Francisco. Contacts in the Philadelphia and Chicago 
Districts noted increases in healthcare costs. 
Price inflation was modest across most ar eas of the country. Reports from several 
Districts, including New Yor k, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas 
viii 
 
indicated selling prices were st able or had softened somewhat since the previous report. Some 
Districts, including Philadelphia,  Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco noted cost 
pressures eased as the price of energy inputs fe ll. However, Atlanta’s report noted some firms 
had implemented price increases tied to previous  increases in energy costs, and firms in the 
Kansas City District noted highe r input and final goods prices.  
   
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Economic activity in the First District continu es to expand, with contacts in most sectors citing 
steady growth. Commercial real estate markets show slight improvement and residential real estate contacts are finally mentioning recovery, albeit fragile. Respondents in this round rarely mention prices or 
pricing. Except for software and IT services where grow th continues to be relatively strong, few firms are 
doing substantial hiring. The outlook is genera lly for more of the same, although a couple of 
manufacturers mention making contingency plans for a potential slowdown.  
Retail 
First District retail contacts continue to report that business is good, consumer sentiment seems to 
be improving, and fears have modera ted about higher gasoline prices hurting spending in other categories. 
Recent year-over-year sales changes range from near zero  to gains of 2 percent to 5 percent. One firm, 
buoyed by recent performance, has increased its overall 2012 sales forecast from 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent. Consumer spending is pa rticularly strong on adult clothing,  household goods, and items related 
to home improvement and maintenan ce. While respondents have generally  positive expectations for their 
businesses in 2012, some express concern that U.S. ec onomic growth will be hampered by domestic 
political tensions and potential negative sp illovers from a European economic downturn. 
The travel and tourism sector in the First District continues to report strong results. Both business 
and leisure travel have been up in the first four m onths of the year, and advance hotel bookings continue 
to be robust. For 2012, the industry expects a 9.5 percent increase over 2011.  
Manufacturing and Related Services  
According to our contacts, the manufacturing sector in the First District continues to grow, but 
the outlook remains guarded, perhaps slight ly more so than in recent months.  
Thirteen of 16 responding firms report growing sales in the most recent period compared with a 
year earlier. Idiosyncratic factors appear to be dr iving the weakness for one firm with declining sales; 
contacts at the other two could not point to anyt hing other than general macroeconomic weakness as 
explanations. A manufacturer of industrial motors men tions the situation in Europe while noting that sales 
are soft in all regions in which the company sells.  
The jury is still out on the role of weather in th e evolution of business conditions over the last six 
months. Several of our contacts cited mysterious sal es declines at various points which then corrected 
themselves. A manufacturer of hoses was off 30 percent at the end of March but then had his “best April 
ever” and was back on plan by this round. He hypot hesizes that winter goods weren’t selling, so big 
retailers—hoping to avoid having to store snow s hovels and road salt over the summer—lacked space 
until recently to put spring goods on the shelves.  
Dramatic changes in U.S. energy supply con tinue to affect economic activity, according to 
manufacturing respondents. A chemical manufacturer in the First District said that the low current price 
 
I - 2 
of natural gas is restructuring the world chemical i ndustry. For the first time in decades, chemical firms 
are building ethylene crackers in the United States.  
All contacts doing business in Europe report that the European manufacturing economy is near or 
in recession. Asia continues to be relatively strong,  but one contact in the industrial membrane business 
said that “the best and most stable market” is the United States. 
Fourteen of 16 contacts report that their firms are hiring; nonetheless, they remain reluctant to add 
to headcount in any significant way. One manufacturer  of parts for the aerospace and automotive industry 
says that, despite strong growth, they have relied mostly on temporary workers to increase production. A contact in the industrial distribution business reports th at if conditions do not improve, they will cut staff. 
Another firm which makes industrial motors says th ey are drawing up contingency plans for a serious 
decline which include a hiring freeze.  
Software and Information Technology Services 
New England software and information technolog y firms report mixed results through May, with 
some experiencing continued growth and others c iting modest slowdowns. Nevertheless, year-over-year 
revenue increases in the first quarter remained larg ely in the high-single digits, bolstered by steady 
demand from the healthcare and banking sectors and a resurgence of activity in the manufacturing sector. 
Indeed, one contact closed a deal in Q1 with a very large electronics manufacturer, and another reports 
that deal sizes are beginning to grow, particularly  in their software solutions for manufacturers and 
distributors. Other contacts, however, assert that clients in general remain reticent to finalize large deals.  
Most contacts report increases in headcount, with  many continuing to add sales and marketing 
personnel as well as billable consultants; by contrast, one  firm recently completed a realignment in which 
headcount was reduced by approximately 5 percent.  Capital and technology spending and selling prices 
have gone largely unchanged since February. Lookin g forward, New England software and IT contacts 
remain cautiously optimistic, with upticks in activity and strong pipelines tempered by concerns regarding 
the U.S. economy and the European debt crisis.  
Staffing Services 
New England staffing firms report that busin ess conditions are largely unchanged since the 
previous conversations in February, with year-over-y ear revenue increases in the first quarter generally in 
the mid-single digits. Labor demand from the health care and manufacturing sectors is steady, and one 
contact reports renewed activity in the financia l sector. However, demand for office and clerical 
assistance has weakened in recent weeks, and activit y in the construction, civil engineering, and 
accounting sectors remains anemic. The number of permanent and temporary-to-permanent placements continues to grow, albeit modestly; however, two contacts say this trend is likely attributable to their own 
internal efforts to boost permanent hires, rather than improvements in labor-market fundamentals.  
Regarding labor supply, candidates with high -end skill sets such as nurses, mechanical and 
electrical engineers, and software developers remain  difficult to find; one contact reports that this 
 
I - 3 
shortage of qualified labor has begun to put upward pressure on pay rates. Other contacts, however, say 
that increases in bill rates and pay rates, if any, ar e due almost entirely to changes in their business mix. 
The outlook among New England staffing contacts is genera lly consistent with that of three months ago, 
with most expecting their current rate of growth to  continue or pick up through the end of the year.  
Commercial Real Estate 
According to contacts, commercial property market s in the First District remain in a holding 
pattern, with some signs of improvement. The strength of Boston’s commercial market continues to stand 
out within the region and nationally, making it the ta rget of a tremendous amount of investor interest. 
Construction activity in Boston appears to be incr easing—contacts report an uptick in large-scale build-
to-suit construction activity for the first time in sever al years. However, the market is still not strong 
enough to warrant speculative construction. In Portla nd, construction activity has increased significantly 
from the last report, propelled by projects in th e public, industrial office, and multifamily sectors. 
Elsewhere in the First District, construction activity is muted. Strict lending standards are still the norm 
District-wide.  
Despite a recent uptick in showings, demand in  the industrial sector remains flat across New 
England. Office leasing volumes throughout the Distri ct are unchanged from six weeks ago, and the retail 
sector continues to be quiet in New England. The outlook among contacts is that, barring significant 
macroeconomic turmoil, conditions s hould remain flat or improve slightly in the rest of the year.  
Residential Real Estate 
Residential real estate shows further signs of impr ovement in the First District as year-over-year 
increases in sales continued in April across the region . Contacts report steady increases in market activity, 
which they attribute to low interest rates and competitive prices as well as confidence in economic conditions. In the Greater Boston area, sales continue  to increase while inventories fall to low levels, 
particularly in the condominium market. Some re spondents say activity among first-time homebuyers has 
increased, reflecting continued afford ability. Reports also indicate increased activity for homes in the 
mid-price range. Changes in median sales prices comp ared to a year ago vary across the First District, 
with some states experiencing modest gains and othe rs observing moderate declines. Rhode Island, where 
the median sales price in April dropped almost 8 percent from a year earlier, faced the largest price 
decline in the region, but the drop was cl ose to zero excluding distressed sales.  
Though contacts characterize housing markets as r ecovering, they note that conditions remain 
fragile; in particular, with sales gains fairly well est ablished, their concerns focus on the possibility of 
further price declines. Contacts expect the delicate re covery of housing markets to continue gradually; 
most anticipate modest gains in sales activity for the next several months and modest price changes, up 
and down. Respondents say declini ng inventory levels and increasing demand in Greater Boston may put 
upward pressure on prices there.  
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has continued to expand at a moderate pace since the last 
report. Labor market conditions have generally improved, and, on balance, contacts indicate they 
plan to add workers in the months ahead. Business contacts in a number of industries note a slowing 
pace of cost increases and mostly stable selling prices. Manufacturers report a pickup in business 
conditions. Tourism activity has been strong since the last report, while retailers and auto dealers indicate steady sales activity in April and May. Home sales activity has continued to increase gradually since the last report, though prices have generally been steady to somewhat lower. Rental 
markets remain strong, with rents rising due to ti ght inventory levels. New York City’s commercial 
real estate market has tightened slightly. Fina lly, bankers report widespread increases in loan 
demand, no change in credit standards, and continued broad-based declines in delinquency rates.  
Consumer Spending  
Retailers report that sales activity was mixed but generally steady in April and the first few 
weeks of May. One major retail chain reports that sales were running on plan and up modestly from a 
year earlier, with particular strength in home-related goods. However, another chain indicates that sales were slightly below plan and down considerably  from this time last year, with weakness in 
home goods and fine jewelry. In general, New York City stores tended to outperform other stores in the District. Retail contacts in upstate New York report that sales in recent weeks have been brisk 
and on par with a year earlier, and note increased demand from Canadian shoppers. Retail prices 
continue to be mostly stable, though price declines are anticipated for fall-season apparel, due to the retreat in cotton prices. Inventory levels are well managed, and are reported to be at desired levels. 
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sa les remained fairly brisk since the last report. 
Sales of new vehicles were up modestly from a year earlier in April and are seen remaining steady in 
May. Product availability is no longer a drag on sales, except for some of the most popular models. 
The used car market continues to be strong and prices remain elevated, although dealers in the 
 
 II-2 
Buffalo area note some recent softening in prices at auction. Wholesale and retail credit conditions 
remain favorable and continue to improve. 
Tourism activity has been quite robust since the last report. New York City hotels indicate 
that revenues were up roughly 10 percent from a year ago in April and May. This increase reflects 
both higher room rates and higher occupancy rates. Ho tel bookings have been fairly broad based, but 
an industry contact notes that there has been a noticeable pickup in business travelers in recent 
months. Moreover, ticket prices and attendance at Broadway theaters increased in April and May; as a result, theater revenues were up considerably from a year ago. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Housing markets across much of the District have been mixed but, on balance, stable since 
the last report, while rental markets have continued to firm. The volume of apartment sales in New York City has been generally steady, with brisk ac tivity at the top and bottom segments of the market 
but activity in the middle described as quiet. Home sales in northern New Jersey have continued to 
improve from a low level, but mainly due to a pickup in sales of distressed properties. Home prices 
in and around New York City are characterized as steady to declining slightly, in part because more distressed properties are coming to market. By cont rast, real estate contacts in Western New York 
report robust sales activity and rising prices in recent months. Apartment rental markets in both New York City and northern New Jersey continue to firm, with tight inventories and rents continuing to 
rise. A major New York City appraisal firm notes that rising rents in the City continue to make 
buying more attractive, and credits this trend for the recent uptick in sales in the lower third of the market. Conditions in the outer boroughs have been somewhat softer than in Manhattan.  
New York City’s office market has tightened slightly since the last report, although leasing 
activity has slowed in recent months. Office vacancy rates have edged down and rents have risen 7-8 
percent from a year ago. However, a major commercial brokerage firm notes that demand for office 
space from the finance industry has softened considerably since earlier in the year. Some of this 
 
 II-3 
recent softening has been offset by strong demand by technology firms, especially in the Midtown 
South area. There also continues to be a fair degr ee of leasing activity from businesses in the media, 
information, and legal sectors. Commercial property sales activity remains slow. There is a moderate 
amount of new office development underway, but most of it will not come on-line for another 12-18 
months. In addition, a hospitality industry contact notes  that interest in luxury hotel development in 
Manhattan has increased recently. 
Other Business Activity 
Contacts across the District, on balance, indicate that business activity has expanded since the 
last report. Manufacturers across New York State report a noticeable improvement in business 
conditions and a growing proportion of non-manufacturing contacts report increases in business activity. In addition, business contacts in manufacturing and other sectors note a slower pace of input price increases and steady to somewhat higher selling prices. 
On balance, labor market conditions have continued to improve across the District since the 
last report. Moreover, both manufacturers and business contacts in other sectors say that they plan to 
increase hiring activity in the months ahead. However, a major New York City employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that hiring activity has been mixed since the last report, with bouts of starts and stops in hiring and some reluctance by firms—particularly in the finance sector—to commit to hiring new employees. Moreover, fewer job openings are available in part because the 
amount of job churn is still much less than normal. A financial industry contact reports that 
previously-announced major layoffs at large banks in the New York City area are ongoing and expected to continue.  
Financial Developments  
Small to medium-sized banks in the District report increased loan demand in all categories to 
a more widespread degree than at any time since the mid 1990s. The increase in demand was most 
prevalent for commercial loans and mortgages. Bankers also indicate increased demand for 
 
 II-4 
refinancing but to a lesser extent than in recent months. Credit standards are reported to be little 
changed across all loan categories. Respondents note a decrease in spreads of loan rates over the cost of funds for all loan categories—particularly fo r commercial mortgages where over three in five 
bankers report lower spreads. Respondents also indicate some decline in average deposit rates. 
Finally, bankers again report widespread decreases in delinquency rates for all loan categories. 
III - 1 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Overall, business activity in the Third Dist rict continues to improve, but the pace has 
slowed slightly in most sect ors since the previous  Beige Book. Manufacturing activity has eased 
slightly, but most major manufact uring sectors continue to grow . After a strong first quarter, 
partially due to the unseasonably m ild weather, retail sales slowed  somewhat in April but appear 
to be gaining strength based on customer traffic in May. Alt hough sales remain strong overall, 
motor vehicle dealers also reported softer sales in April. Third District banks report steadier 
growth in lending and continued strong credit qu ality since the last Beige Book. Demand for new 
home construction has eased off a bit, but br okers report stronger sale s of existing homes. 
Several signs of improvement were cited by comme rcial real estate contacts. Overall, service-
sector firms report continued grow th. Price pressures have eased s lightly in some sectors since 
the last Beige Book.  
The outlook remains optimistic, but more firm s readily noted the slow pace of the 
recovery relative to the sunni er views expressed in the last Beige Book. Manufacturers’ 
expectations for the next six months, although dimi nished, remain positive. Retailers continue to 
expect steady improvement. Auto dealers anticipate continued st rong sales. Banking, real estate, 
and service-sector firms are sli ghtly more optimistic but continue  to plan for slow growth in 
2012. In general, business plans reflect caution, a nd businesses have resumed a more realistic 
perspective on the limitations of the current recovery and the risk s to its longevity.  
 
Manufacturing.   Since the last Beige Book, Third Di strict manufacturers have reported 
virtually no change in shipments and just the sl ightest decline in new orders. Gains continue 
among the makers of food products, lumber and wood products, fabricated metals, industrial 
machinery, and instruments. Firms in the prim ary metals and electronic equipment industries 
report a fall-off in demand. Accordin g to various contacts, growth is  attributed to warm weather, 
automotive demand, production returning from Ch ina, Marcellus Shale activity, and renewed 
customer optimism.  
About eight out of 10 Third Dist rict manufacturers expect bu siness conditions to improve 
or stay the same during the next six months – somewhat less optim istic than reported in the last 
Beige Book. Except for primary metals, optimism is  present in all major sectors. Firms seem 
III - 2 
relatively divided as to whethe r high energy costs are a concer n, depending largely on their 
ability to pass the cost along to their customers.  New to the list of concerns and uncertainties 
about the outlook is the increasing worry that political  gridlock will lead to large cuts in defense-
related production through seque stration. While caution remains, firms have reported a little 
more optimism as have their customers. Howe ver, manufacturers have expressed somewhat 
lower expectations of future capital spending an d future hiring since the last Beige Book.  
 
Retail.   Third District retailers reported that  the surprising early sales gains held up 
through March, then fell back some in April. Ye ar-to-date, gains have remained positive through 
April. Sunny weather has continue d to boost traffic in May; bus counts at outlet malls are nearly 
double last year’s level. Small businesses in less urban market s are struggling as consumers 
adjust to higher gas prices by cutting reta il purchases. Retail cont acts remain cautiously 
optimistic.  
Auto sales in Pennsylvania sh ifted from strong in March to moderately strong in April. 
Very low borrowing costs for inventories have help ed to support dealers’  profitability. A large 
New Jersey dealer reports that retail auto sales are off year-ove r-year through April but that fleet 
sales are strong. Profits are also off. The dearth of auto sales in recent years has created a slump 
for dealer service sales; they must compete hard er to retain customers with aging cars that 
typically are taken to independe nt garages. The outlook for auto sales remains positive. Hiring 
remains spotty and depends on brands carried, fleet business, and local  economic conditions.  
 
Finance.   Overall, loan volumes have continued to grow in the Third District since the 
previous Beige Book. While activity remains une ven, banks report increasing signs of a steady 
recovery. Loan demand continues to be stronge st for inventories and capital equipment to 
manufacturers and for investments in the higher education, health care, and technology sectors, 
and in multifamily housing. Most contact s report solid credit quality.  
 
Real Estate and Construction.   Residential builders report some softening in May 
traffic and sales due to a combination of t ypical seasonal slowing a nd a drop-off from the 
atypically strong first-quarter sale s. Construction crew members for one Pennsylvania builder are 
working 45 to 70 hours per week; the builder is hi ring cautiously as the bu ilder’s pace of activity 
slowly picks up. Residential broke rs report “seeing genuine improvement”: Year-to-date sales 
III - 3 
through mid-May exceed last year’s and are over plan. A broker reported that much of its 
workforce operates on a shortened week, and it will exploit this substantial excess capacity 
before hiring more staff. The outlook among builders and brokers remains positive.  
Nonresidential real estate activity has been  generally positive sin ce the last Beige Book, 
with several contacts citing incr eased leasing activity throughout th e District, including southern 
New Jersey. Despite ongoing demand, Philadelphia’s Center City office market has slowed a bit, 
as the bulk of existing class-A trophy space is no w under agreement. Several contacts also cited 
a few large build-to-suit projec ts that have gone to bid and are awaiting approvals before 
construction begins. Other contacts noted reluct ance among transportation contractors to hire 
more workers, given the uncertain future of publ ic infrastructure funding due to the increasingly 
short funding horizon of the federal transportati on authorization bill. The overall outlook for 
nonresidential real estate has brightened slightly si nce the last Beige Book. 
 
Services.   Third District service-sector firms have generally reported positive growth 
since the last Beige Book. Job pos tings have risen at area univers ities, local advertising sales 
have been strong, and area theme parks are attr acting increasing numbers of foreign visitors 
(notably from China). Contacts note little recent change in defense-related activity; however, 
concerns are mounting that signif icant federal spending cuts on defense and civil contracts may 
result from sequestration or its alternative, po litical compromise. Employers continue to make 
liberal use of staffing firms; however, staffing co ntacts report that employers’ sense of urgency 
to fill specific slots is often low.  Overall, service-sector firms re tain a positive outlook for growth 
through the remainder of the year.  
 
Prices and Wages.   Price levels have eas ed slightly since the previous Beige Book and 
remain generally constrained. Industry contacts indi cated that gas prices have stabilized and are 
expected to ease through the summer. Manufactur ing firms report lower cost factors since the 
last Beige Book. Home builders anticipate cost in creases for materials if  activity picks up more 
quickly; however, the current gradual pace of re covery may allow suppliers to adjust without 
severe cost increases. Retailers and home build ers continue to report tight margins. Contacts 
continue to report a lack of wage  pressures, other than for medi cal benefits. House prices have 
stabilized in many areas for low-end homes but have fallen further for high-end homes.  
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Business activity in the Fourth  District has grown at a mode rate pace since the beginning 
of April.   Manufacturers reported stable production, while residential and nonresidential 
construction showed moderate growth.  Retail sale s held steady, and auto dealers described April 
sales as generally good.  Explor ation and production in shale gas expanded, even as the demand 
for coal has slowed.  Freight transport volume mo ved higher.  And the market for business credit 
has strengthened. 
Hiring continued at a modest pace across mo st industry sectors, although staffing-firm 
representatives reported that the number of job openings had increased for information 
technology and healthcare workers.   Wage pressures are containe d.  Input prices were stable, 
apart from increases in building materials.   
Manufacturing.  New orders and production at District factorie s were mainly steady 
during the past six weeks, with a few reports in dicating a weakening in orders from European 
customers.  Nonetheless, a majority of our respondents said that output was above year-ago 
levels.  The outlook by manufactur ers has grown more positive sin ce our last repor t, buoyed by a 
pickup in activity in the construction, energy, an d transportation sectors.   Manufacturers expect 
that this pickup will continue through the rema inder of 2012.  On balance, shipping volume by 
steel producers and service centers  was stable.  Demand is being driven mainly by the auto 
industry.   Steel shipments are expected to fo llow their seasonal drop- off during the summer.  
However, several of our contacts expressed uncer tainty about the extent to which markets will 
pick up in the fourth quarter.  District auto production showed a moderate decline during April 
on a month-over-month basis, while increasing subs tantially from prior-year levels.  Year-over-
year increases were attributed mainly to  the abatement of supply chain issues.   
No change in capacity utilization was noted, w ith most producers runn ing at or slightly 
below normal rates.  Inventories were genera lly consistent with de mand.  Respondents citing 
rising inventories reported that they are manageable.  Capital budgets remain on track; only one-
third of our contacts said th at they expect to increase out lays during the upcoming months, 
mainly for information technology upgrades or cap acity expansion.  Input costs were stable, with 
any upward pressure being characterized as mode st.  However, the majority of our respondents 
reported raising their product pri ces slightly, partly to recoup ra w-material cost increases that 
they were unable to pass through in prior year s.  A few manufacturers reported hiring due to 
expansions in auto and steel plants; otherwis e there was little change in payrolls.  Wage 
pressures are contained.       
Real Estate.  Single-family home construction show ed a moderate improvement during 
the past couple of months, and the majority of our contacts said that sales were significantly 
above year-ago levels.  Contracts were almost all in the move up price-point categories.  While 
builders are encouraged by year-to- date results, they are guardedly optimistic in their outlook.  
IV - 2  
We heard a few reports of builders raising ne w home prices, though ma rgins are still tight.  
Reports indicated a broad-based ri se in building material prices.  One respondent told us that 
suppliers are raising prices because there is a perception that the housing industry is on a 
comeback.  Year-to-date sales of existing single -family homes showed modest growth relative to 
prior-year levels across the eastern third of the Di strict.  Several of our co ntacts noted that sellers 
are becoming more realistic and flexible about asking prices.  The appr aisal process remains a 
major challenge.     
Activity in nonresidential construction for sm all to medium-size contractors continued to 
strengthen and stands at a higher level than a year ago.  Financi ng projects is getting easier, but 
banks still demand a substantial equity share on th e part of the developer,  and the amount of due 
diligence required has increased.  Construction ac tivity is broad based, driven by healthcare, 
higher education, hospitality, and retail.  We hear d several reports of downward pressure on rents 
for retail space, which was attrib uted to retailers looking for sm aller footprints.  Our contacts 
expect that business will continue  to slowly improve as the year  progresses.  The majority of 
residential and commercial builders reported hiri ng a few people, but recr uiting highly qualified 
candidates is difficult, especially for projec t managers.  Top candidates are demanding higher 
wages. 
Consumer Spending.  Retailers reported that April sales held steady on a month-over-
month basis, but increased by mid- single digits relative to year -ago levels.  Contacts cited the 
unusually warm, dry spring weather as a factor for the pickup in sales across product lines.  
Nonetheless, several reports desc ribed middle-income households as  stressed.  One contact noted 
that his company is investing in the developmen t of new products that would be more attractive 
to value-conscious consumers.  All of our cont acts anticipate that revenues during their next 
fiscal quarter will be above prior-year levels, mainly in the mid-single digits.  Retailers cited 
upward pressure on vendor costs, which they a ttributed to elevated commodity prices and 
increased costs for packaging and off-shore labor .  There was some reluctance to pass through 
rising costs to consumers.  Inventories rose mode stly, but they were described as manageable.  
Capital spending for the year remains on target, w ith a large majority of retailers expecting to 
increase outlays during the upcom ing months.  Monies will be  used largely for technology 
enhancements, distribution facilitie s, and store remodeli ng.  Little hiring is anticipated, except at 
new stores.   
Auto dealers characterized new-vehicle purchas es during the past six weeks as generally 
good, with commercial truck sales doing particularly well.  Some slowing of passenger car sales 
was reported, which dealers attributed to a lack of incentives from the manufacturers and a small 
number of lease rollovers.  On a year-over-year ba sis, transactions were higher.  Most contacts 
are satisfied with their invent ory positions.  The outlook by deal ers for the remainder of 2012 has 
grown more positive since our last report, althoug h some dealers believe that total sales during 
IV - 3  
2012 will be slightly below prior-year levels.  Purcha ses of used vehicles were fairly steady year-
over-year—inventories are building and prices dec lined slightly.  On the financing side, we 
heard two reports that banks are mo re willing to work with dealer s.  Leasing activity picked up.  
Dealers are investing in manufacturer-mandated facility upgrades and imaging programs.  Hiring 
for sales and service positions contin ued, but at a very slow pace.   
Banking.  Demand for business credit is on the upsw ing.  Bankers reported that loan 
pricing remains very competitive.  Loan requests were broad based, with the primary drivers 
being commercial real estate, en ergy, and healthcare.  Little change in consumer credit was 
noted.  Products in highest demand were auto lo ans (direct and indirect) and revolving lines of 
credit.  Consumer credit prici ng held steady.  In the resident ial mortgage market, demand was 
described as stable to very strong.  A high percen tage of applicants are looking to refinance, 
although a few bankers said that they  are beginning to see a shift in  applications from refinancing 
to new purchase.  No changes were made to loan  application standards; some respondents saw an 
improvement in the quality of lo an applicants.  Deli nquencies were steady or declined, with 
several bankers citing a dr op in credit card delinquencies.  Core  deposits rose.  There was a slight 
increase in the number of new hires compared to a couple of months ago, but on balance, no 
change in payrolls is exp ected in the near term.  
Energy.  Conventional oil and natural gas produc tion was stable, with little change 
expected in the upcoming weeks.  Conventional dr illing has slowed due to very low natural gas 
prices.  Well-head prices for oil dropped sligh tly.  The Ohio Department of Natural Resources 
has issued 119 Utica shale drilling permits sin ce January 1 and 68 horizon tal wells are currently 
being drilled in Ohio.  Coal production during 20 12 is expected to be slightly less than 2011 
levels.  Spot prices for metallurgical and steam coals declined.  Production equipment and 
materials prices were flat.  Cap ital spending is expected to hold at current levels or decline.  
Little change was seen in energy payrolls.   
Transportation.  Overall, freight transport volume m oved higher.  A couple of contacts 
did report a modest slowdown beginning in April, although they were uncertain if this was the 
beginning of a trend.  Sectors driving demand include energy and transportation along with 
seasonal products.  Volume is expected to continue growing at a moderate to strong pace for the 
remainder of the year.  However, all of our contacts expressed concern about the regulatory 
environment and the negative impact it could have  on potential growth.  Costs associated with 
truck maintenance moderated, and diesel fuel pr ices have declined, although fuel surcharges 
remain in place.  Many carriers negotiated rate  increases as freight contracts came up for 
renewal.  Capital spending for 2012 remains on pla n.  Outlays are allocated for replacement of 
aging units and adding capacity.  We heard two re ports about small carriers reducing the size of 
their fleets due to high replacement costs.  Co mpanies are hiring for replacement and capacity 
expansion.  Wage pressure exists due to a tightening of the driver pool. 
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
Overview.  Economic activity in the Fifth District im proved modestly since our last assessment. 
Retail sales were sluggish, held back in part by w eak big-ticket sales. Growth at services firms slowed, 
although tourism businesses reported st rong demand. Bankers said that lendi ng grew slowly, and much of 
the activity was refinancing. Residential real estate agents noted encouraging signs of improvement in 
housing sales, while commercial Rea ltors described leasing and construction activity as mostly flat to 
moderately up. Manufacturing reports were mixed, with auto and othe r transportation equipment-related 
producers continuing to do well, wh ile other producers faced unchanged or weakening demand. District 
hiring activity varied, with some businesses reluctant to hire or unable to find qualified workers. Recent 
rainfall aided newly planted fields, but excess moisture  in some areas delayed planting. Price increases—
both paid and received—generally slowed. 
Manufacturing.  We received mixed signals on manufact uring activity since our last report. 
According to our latest survey, new orders and sh ipments were essentially unchanged in May, following 
solid expansion during the previous month. A produ cer of metal extrusions reported that, although his 
sales slowed a bit in April, demand in May picked up again.  However, a producer of gas turbines said 
that economic problems in Europe led to fewer exports , and he expected to lay off ten percent of his 
employees this summer. Several manufacturers cite d decreased government spending as the primary 
reason for recent cancellations of orders. A manufacturer of aircraft engines expected that cuts in defense 
spending would soon weaken government demand for hi s products, but private sector orders remained 
robust. A spokesperson at another aerospace manufac turing firm said that her business was expanding 
nicely, and she attributed the increase to strengthe ning demand for helicopters and gyroplanes. According 
to our latest survey, both raw materials prices and finished goods prices grew at a somewhat slower pace 
than a month ago. 
Retail. Sales were tepid in recent weeks, after an early Easter pulled some holiday sales into 
March. Stores reported good Mothers Day sales, although  foot traffic was lighter than normal for many 
retailers. Shopper traffic was unchanged since our last report and big-ticket sales declined, according to a 
recent survey. A central Virginia retail representative reported little stability in the market as customers 
exhibited "yo-yo spending" (i.e., up one month, dow n the next). Accordingly, retailers managed 
inventories tightly and were reluctant to make capita l investments. A South Carolina grocer observed that 
customers were buying special sale items at different stor es, rather than shopping at one store. In contrast, 
an executive at a chain of hardware stores noted th at sales had improved at a slow-but-steady pace since 
the start of the year. Discount department store mana gers generally reported a pick-up in sales. For a few 
discounters, however, the opening of new competition ke pt sales flat. Automobile sales were also flat. 
 V-2  
Most home improvement retailers reported a decline in sales in recent weeks. Retailers' prices rose at a 
somewhat slower pace since our last report. 
Services.  Revenues advanced more slowly at services firms since our last report. A building 
contractor stated that consumers were still avoiding big projects, but were increasingly looking for "more 
than a coat of paint," as homeowners improved thei r current homes rather than trying to sell. Several 
services providers, particularly architectural, engineer ing, and telecommunication firms, reported stronger 
revenues. A healthcare provider in Central Virginia  reported that demand for in-patient services had 
flattened out a bit recently, partly due to an absence of influenza cases, but out-patient services were still 
growing. Several healthcare institutions reported that  they were continuing capital spending projects, 
especially on computer technology, to meet federa l requirements and guidelines. Non-retail services 
providers reported a mild up-tick in the rate of price increases. 
Finance. Lending activity increased modestly across most segments of the market. On the 
commercial side, several bankers cited markedly high er volumes of small business loan applications and 
increased loan approval rates. One banker attributed  the gains to growth in  inventory and capital 
improvement spending, while another said that sm all businesses were making renovations to commercial 
properties. However, several loan officers around th e District saw little improvement in loan demand 
from the retail sector. On the consumer side, mo rtgage demand continued to improve, although 
refinancing dominated much of the lending. Other bank officials noted solid gains in home improvement 
loans, with one banker citing an increase in use of equi ty lines of credit. In contrast to the more upbeat 
reports, several officials at mid-sized banks described  loan demand as flat in recent months, with little 
new business in the pipeline for either  mortgage or commercial loans. 
   Real Estate. Residential real estate activity generally im proved since our last report. A Realtor in 
the Richmond area, who noted some improvement in April, said that May would be a big indicator of whether the spring market just came early, or if ga ins would continue into June.  He was cautiously 
optimistic that real estate activity was moving in a positive direction. A source from the Hampton Roads 
area of Virginia said that housing-related activity in that area had seen recent signs of improvement, 
adding that properties were being “snapped up” as investors became more confident of a housing 
recovery and home sellers became more realistic w ith their prices.  Moreover, several brokers in 
Asheville and Raleigh, North Carolina stated there was an up-tick in housing sales.  However, an agent in 
the Winston-Salem area of the state mentioned that ther e was still stagnant growth in some areas, and that 
homes for sale in that area were out of balance with  area incomes. Several Realtors reported that sales 
picked up in recent weeks, while housing prices drop ped.  Most Realtors indicated that sales were 
concentrated in the low-to- mid-price range.   
Commercial real estate leasing and construction was flat or moderately improving in recent 
months, although pockets of wea kness persisted. Respondents around the District reported more 
 V-3  
construction and absorption, especially in the indust rial segment. Contacts at several engineering and 
architectural firms confirmed that interest in new construction projects increased, although demand 
remained well below pre-recession levels. Constructio n activity in South Carolina was driven by the 
recent expansion of manufacturing activity in the state, while gains in West Virginia were associated with 
the emerging boom in natural gas. One real estate deve loper in Charleston, South Carolina said that rents 
had increased to the point where “new construction is starting to make sense.” A developer in the 
Richmond area cited a rise in demand for warehousi ng space, related to healthcare facilities and an 
increase in on-line shopping activity.     
Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity were mixed since our last report.   
Several employment agency contacts saw somewhat greater demand for temporary workers, and most expected demand to remain strong for the remainder of the year. A Baltimore agent reported an increase 
in demand for manufacturing workers, adding that manufacturers were hurt by a severe shortage of 
trained workers. Several contacts said that curre nt hiring was focused on skilled positions, and they 
expected that companies would continue to experi ence recruitment problems. However, a representative 
at a Richmond staffing agency reported that job or ders continued to be steady and that more area 
companies were hiring workers on a permanent basis th an a year ago. A source in South Carolina noted 
that the aerospace industry was investing heavily in new technologies that would reduce the need to hire 
additional workers. According to our latest survey, District wage gains in manufacturing were slightly 
lower than a month ago, while the pace of wages in the service sector increased.  
 
Tourism. Tourism contacts reported strong bookings dur ing the last four to six weeks, and 
restaurants in tourist areas experienced solid custom er demand. Several hotel owners on the outer banks 
of North Carolina said that spring got off to a strong start and summer rentals were up. Memorial Day is 
the traditional summer kick-off for resorts, and most we re advertising special events for that weekend. A 
resort owner in the mountains of Virginia said that he expected a record crowd for the holiday. He added 
that lower gas prices and good weather boosted bookings  in recent weeks, following a winter season with 
weak demand due to unusually warm weather. In addi tion, time-share rentals were strong, and booking 
incentives were no longer necessary. 
Agriculture. Rainfall across the District supplied much-n eeded moisture to emerging field crops. 
In South Carolina, cotton planting was slightly ahead of schedule, and planting of peanuts was well ahead 
of its normal pace. However, rainfall delayed plantings  of cotton and peanuts in parts of North Carolina 
and Virginia. Excess precipitation was also problematic  for strawberry farmers in Virginia, causing fruit 
spoilage; the problem was compounded by a lack of pickers. Corn and soybeans began to emerge in 
Maryland, while farmers in West Vi rginia reported that warm weather put planting of corn and soybeans 
ahead of schedule. Lastly, the peach harvest wa s under way in South Carolina, and cantaloupe and 
watermelon planting was complete.   
VI-1 
 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Reports from Sixth District  business contacts indicated that economic activity 
continued to expand at a moderate pace  in April and May. Reports were somewhat more positive than 
the previous report, and expecta tions remained generally optimistic across most sectors. However, 
uncertainties surrounding the poten tial impact of developments in  Europe weighed on the outlook. 
Most retailers noted a modest in crease in sales activity, and auto  sales remained strong. Positive 
reports from the hospitality sector  included healthy occupancy and room  rates, and future bookings were 
solid. Brokers and homebuilders noted higher sales comp ared with last year, and commercial real estate 
contacts stated they were seeing improvements led by gains in the apartment segment.  Manufacturers 
cited modest growth in new orders and production.  Bankers asserted that the demand for refinancing 
mortgages continued to increase slowly. Hiring activ ity was positive, but muted. Firms continued to note 
difficulty filling specialized positions.  Most busin esses indicated having little pricing power; however, 
an increasing number of firms said that they have  been able to successfully pass on price increases, 
especially those tied  to energy costs.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Reports from District retailer s indicated that consumer 
spending improved in April and May. Me rchants anticipate that sales will  continue to grow at a modest 
pace in the near term. The auto sect or remained strong, and regional deal ers expect sales to remain solid 
going forward. Despite the recent slide in gasoline pr ices, merchants remained wary of the potential 
impact on personal spending. That said, few retailers reported significant change s in consumer behavior 
with the exception of thos e operating in rural areas. 
Leisure and business travel contacts continued to report robust activity and a solid outlook for 
the remainder of 2012. Occupancy and room rate s exceeded expectations and convention bookings 
remained strong. Reports also showed that a number of  hospitality-related capit al investment projects 
were underway in several areas across the District.  Florida continued to be bolstered by visitors from 
South America and Canada.  Cruise-line bookings were  down slightly compared with the last report. 
High fuels costs were identified as a downside risk to the summer travel seas on, but hospitality contacts 
were somewhat less concerned than they were earlier in the year. Th ey were more concerned, however, 
about a potential decline in visitors from Europe. 
Real Estate and Construction.  The majority of residential brokers said that home sales 
exceeded year-ago levels in Apr il and May with many reporting that  sales exceeded expectations.  
Strengthening sales, mostly from cash buyers and i nvestors, were noted by most Florida contacts.  
VI-2 
 
Brokers observed that invent ory levels across the Distri ct continued to decline. The majority of contacts 
reported that home prices were fl at to slightly up on a year-ove r-year basis. The sales outlook among 
brokers remained positive with most anticipating year-over-year gains, albeit from very low levels of 
overall activity, over the next several months. 
District homebuilders reported th at new home sales and construc tion rose modestly compared 
with a year earlier. Builders indicated that home pr ice declines continued to abate. The majority 
indicated that new home inventories declined further on a year-over-ye ar basis. Contacts noted that 
multifamily construction remained robust and new pr ojects continued to be announced. In the short-
term, homebuilders expect sales and construction to be flat to slightly up compar ed with a year earlier. 
Improvements in the District’s commercial real estate markets were led by gains in occupancy 
and solid rental growth in the apar tment sector.  Overall, small impr ovements were noted in the region’s 
office and industrial sectors as vacancy rates modera ted somewhat; however, repo rts on District retail 
real estate were more mixed. Although flat on a year-over-year basis, the majority of commercial 
contractors said that year-to-date co nstruction activity was slightly ahead of activity in last  year’s fourth 
quarter.  Backlogs were down from a year earlier. Most c ontacts anticipate a modest increase in private 
construction activity through the rema inder of the year, while public wo rks projects are expected to 
decelerate.  
Manufacturing and Transportation.   The District’s manufacturi ng sector continued to expand 
modestly in April and May. Manufactu rers reported growth in new or ders and production, but noted that 
employment growth had slowed some what.  A District auto manufactur er announced plans to add a third 
shift to meet increased global demand for their products. Auto producers c ontinued to note concern 
about economic and financial conditions in Europe, a si gnificant market for the region’s auto exports.  
Railroad contacts noted continued volume growth  in shipments of automobiles, metals, and 
forest products, along with strong intermodal de mand.  Shipments of coal, construction-related 
aggregates, and chemicals continued to moderate, however .  Reports indicated that elevated diesel prices 
were allowing railroads to maintain a competitive e dge over trucking. At District ports, imports of 
construction-related steel wa s reportedly strengthening. 
Banking and Finance.  Lending standards remained largely unc hanged since the last report, but 
banking contacts indicated that more applicants we re qualifying for loans. Most District bankers 
commented that demand for refinancing mortgage lo ans continued to increase; more applicants had 
ample cash for down payments or enough equity in th eir homes to meet the loan requirements. Credit 
VI-3 
 
availability increased and competition among lenders for loans remained strong.  Some bankers 
mentioned improvements in the general creditwort hiness of borrowers and appraisal valuations.   
Employment and Prices. Regional employment growth remained positive, although contacts 
noted that uncertainty regarding future economic conditions was a major headwind for additional job 
creation. Employers continued to express difficulty hiring for specialized positio ns, such as those in 
information technology and engine ering. Trucking contacts also noted continuing trouble finding 
qualified labor to meet new federal regulations and some manufacturers cited di fficulties finding trained 
operators and welders. Skilled auto  mechanics also appeared to be in short supply. Firms noted the 
importance of efforts by government and academic inst itutions to coordinate training programs with 
large employers. Contacts also i ndicated that private training progr ams funded by trade associations or 
industry groups were being develope d to train workers where larger publ ic programs were not available.  
Though most contacts continued to indicate havi ng little pricing power, more firms recounted 
successful attempts or plans to pass on price increa ses since the last report. Increased transportation 
costs, including those resulting fr om higher gasoline and other fuel  prices were being passed on to 
consumers without much difficulty.  Firms responding in May to the Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation 
Expectations survey reported that unit costs were e xpected to rise 1.8 percent for the year ahead, down 
from an average of 2.0 percent over the previous th ree month period. According to businesses surveyed, 
materials costs had subsided somewh at since April, though they are stil l expected to have a moderate 
upward influence on prices over the coming year. Despite continuing repo rts that sales levels are below 
what they consider to be normal,  contacts anticipate little to mode rate upward price pressure from 
improving sales levels ov er the next 12 months.  
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Contacts noted that more i nvestment is needed in 
transportation infrastructure to accommodate r ecent increases in domestic and Canadian energy 
production. District refining c ontacts indicated that the capacity to process heavier grad es of crude are 
limited and despite investment in additional refinery  capacity, a number of recent and planned refinery 
closures elsewhere in the country could imply th at existing facilities may have difficulty meeting 
demand for distillate fuels, like diesel and jet fuel. Permits for offshore drilling have increased in recent months.  Drought conditions worsened in most of Fl orida and Georgia and parts of Alabama.  Prices 
paid to farmers for oranges were up and a contact reported these higher prices were dampening demand.  
Prices paid for soybeans were up on a year-over-y ear and month-over-month basis because of strong 
global demand and decreased supplie s coming from South America. 
 
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  Economic activity in the Seventh Distri ct continued to expand at a moderate 
pace in April and May, although at a touch slower rate than during the prior reporting period. Many 
contacts remained cautiously op timistic in their outlook for the U.S. economy. Several, however, 
also noted an increase in economic uncertainty, pointing to weaker busine ss conditions in Europe 
and Asia and the upcoming elections in the U.S.  Growth in consumer spending slowed, while 
business spending continued to increase at a st eady pace. Manufacturing pr oduction also rose at a 
steady pace, and construction activity increased as  well. Credit conditions were little changed on 
balance. Commodity prices moved lower, and wage  increases remained moderate. Planting of corn 
and soybeans was well ahead of the normal pace and that of a year ago. 
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending increased at a slower rate in April and May. 
Retailers indicated that the slower sales pace was due in large part to the unseasonable weather that 
had boosted activity during the prior reporting pe riod. Spending on necessities increased, while 
outlays for big-ticket items like furniture, app liances, and electronics decreased. Inventories 
generally were at more seasonally appropriate levels. Looking ahead, some retailers are planning to 
add to inventories in expectation of a better back -to-school season than last  year. Auto sales were 
flat, and auto dealers expect that sales will remain  at about this pace through the fall. Some dealers 
continued to report difficulty in stocking popular models because of  supply chain constraints.   
Business spending.  Business spending continued at a steady pace in April and May. 
Inventories generally were reported to be at comfortable levels. St rong expected sales growth, high 
rates of capacity utilization, and the need to  replace aging equipment continued to support 
manufacturers’ expenditures on plant and equipment. Outside of  manufacturing, firms were more 
cautious in their capital spending, citing increase d economic uncertainty. Labor market conditions 
were little changed over the reporting period. Hiring remained selective, and most contacts 
indicated that they had not ch anged their hiring plans. Some  manufacturers were increasing 
overtime, but noted that orders were not yet strong enough to ne cessitate adding to their labor 
forces. Those manufacturers who we re looking to hire continued to report difficulty in finding 
skilled workers. Several said they were easing jo b requirements, using internships, or increasing 
college recruiting to try to fill open positions.  
 
 
 VII-2
Construction/real estate .  Construction and real estate ac tivity increased in April and May. 
Demand continued to be strong for multi-family construction, especially apartments, but also 
increased for single-family homes. The residentia l rental market strengthened, with rents rising 
further and one contact noting a shortage of sing le-family properties for lease in parts of the 
District. Realtors indicated that  they were also be ginning to see a pickup in demand in the for-
purchase market for single-family homes, as more sales had multiple offers on them. Commercial real estate conditions also continued to impr ove gradually. Demand increased for urban office 
space, hotels, and education facilities, while it re mained weak for suburban office and retail space. 
Vacancy rates edged lower, but remained elevate d, particularly for retail  properties. A contact 
noted, however, that some suburba n retail space was bei ng switched over to alternative uses.  
Manufacturing .   Manufacturing production increased at  a steady pace in April and May. 
Capacity utilization in the steel industry reached its highest level since the end of the recession, as 
stronger demand from North Ameri can customers offset weaker demand from Europe and Asia. 
The auto industry remained a source of strength for manufacturing. Auto s uppliers were operating at 
high levels of capacity utilization, but noted that  production growth had st abilized after the large 
gains earlier in the year. Demand for heavy equi pment, though still strong, decreased slightly. 
Contacts expressed some concern over current w eakness in global demand, but indicated that the 
industry was still being boosted by domestic demand, notably by a robust rental market and 
continued strength in the energy a nd mining sectors. Agricultural and construction equipment were 
also noted as areas of strength, with dealers a dding products for the upcoming construction season. 
Manufacturers of household goods and building mate rials continued to experience soft demand, 
although a few noted a recent pick-up in activity. 
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions were little cha nged on balance from the prior reporting 
period. Credit spreads and market volatility edged up. Business loan demand remained limited apart 
from steady growth in refinancing and capital repl acement. For large banks, some of the weakness 
in the business loan segment has been offset by an  increase in demand for other services, such as 
foreign exchange hedging and liquidity manage ment. Banking contacts indicated that there 
continues to be fierce competiti on among lenders for creditworthy bor rowers. Contacts also noted 
an increase in the availab ility of credit for commercial real estate and consumer auto loans, while 
lending standards for residential mortgages remained tight.   
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures leveled off in April and May. Steel prices softened, with one 
contact noting that weaker demand in Europe and As ia had contributed to the decline. Energy prices 
 
 VII-3
also moved lower. Wholesale price pressures eased some, most notably for cotton and dairy 
products, although transportation cost s continued to increase. Retail ers indicated that they were 
largely absorbing the higher tran sportation costs in their margins and continued to discount heavily 
items such as clothing. Wage pressures continued to be moderate, although many contacts noted an 
increase in healthcare costs.  
Agriculture .  District corn and soybean planting in  April and May were well ahead of last 
year’s pace, as well as the five-year average. Corn planting was almost finished in Illinois, Indiana, 
and Iowa. The emergence of corn and soybean plants generally was also faster  than typical. With an 
early and promising start, the corn  crop may set a record this year , although dryness cu rrently exists 
across much of the District. Corn and soybean pr ices fell during the repo rting period, while wheat 
prices rose. Milk prices decr eased, and prices are low enough to  trigger some concerns about 
margins for dairy operations. Hog and cattle prices were higher.  
  
 VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
The economy of the Eighth District has continued to grow at a modest pace since our previous 
survey. Residential real estate market conditions ha ve improved moderately. Similarly, commercial real 
estate market conditions have also improved. Retail and auto sales in April and early May increased over 
year-earlier levels. In contrast, recent reports of  plans from firms in the manufacturing and services 
sectors were mixed. Reports of lending activity at a sa mple of large District banks during the first quarter 
of 2012 were somewhat mixed. 
Consumer Spending 
Contacts reported that retail sales in April and early May were up slightly, on average, over year-
earlier levels. About 60 percent of the retailers re ported increases in sales, while 12 percent saw decreases 
and 28 percent saw no changes. Thirty-seven percent of the retailers noted that sales levels met their 
expectations, 42 percent reported that sales were belo w expectations, and 21 percent reported that sales 
were above expectations. Twenty percent of the retaile rs noted that their inventories were too high, while 
12 percent indicated that their inventories were too low. The sales outlook for the summer was positive: 
56 percent of the retailers expect sales to increase over 2011 levels, while 24 percent expect sales to 
decrease and 20 percent expect sales to be similar to last year’s sales. 
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in April and early May were up, on average, 
compared with last year. About 64 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 24 
percent saw decreases and 12 percent saw no changes. Twenty percent of the car dealers noted that new 
car sales had increased relative to used car sales, wh ile 20 percent reported the opposite. Also, roughly 28 
percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while 
about 12 percent reported the opposite. Forty percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their inventories were too low, while about 8 percent repor ted that their inventories were too high. The sales 
outlook for June and July was optimistic: 88 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2011 
 VIII-2 
levels, while just 8 percent expect sales to decrease and 4 percent expect sales to be similar to last year's 
sales. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been mixed since our previous report. Several 
manufacturers reported plans to open pl ants and hire workers, while a si milar number of c ontacts reported 
plans to close plants and lay off workers in the ne ar future. Firms in the paper product, agriculture, 
chemical, paint, and military and police equipment manufacturing industries reported plans to decrease 
existing operations or close plants in the District. In contrast, contacts in the automobile parts, wood 
product, solar panel, and steel product manufacturi ng industries reported plans to hire workers and 
increase operations. 
Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector also have been mixed since our 
previous survey. Contacts in air transportation su pport, travel, and religious organization services 
announced plans to lay off workers and reduce operations in the District. In contrast, firms in software 
development services announced plans to hire additional workers and expand operations. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth  District on a year-over-year basis. Compared 
with the same period in 2011, April 2012 year-to-da te home sales were up 13 percent in Louisville, 3 
percent in Little Rock, 20 percent in Memphis, and 18 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction 
increased in the majority of the District over this time period. April 2012 year-to-date single-family 
housing permits increased in the majority of the Dist rict metro areas compared with the same period in 
2011. Permits increased 35 percent in Louisville, 20 percent in Little Rock, 31 percent in Memphis, and 
28 percent in St. Louis. 
Commercial and industrial real estate conditions ha ve continued to improve throughout most of 
the District. Contacts in Louisville reported that th e increase in office real est ate activity slowed during 
April, but overall performance in the first quarter of 2012 remained strong. A contact in St. Louis reported 
strong commercial real  estate activity and weak industrial real es tate activity in the first quarter of 2012. 
 VIII-3 
Commercial and industrial constructio n activity improved moderately throughout most of the District. 
Contacts in south central Kentucky noted that new large commercial construction projects have been 
undertaken, and a contact in Louisville reported plans fo r speculative industrial construction. A contact in 
Pine Bluff, Arkansas, reported some new large co mmercial construction plans. A contact noted a few 
large industrial construction plans in Wentzville, Missouri, and some commercial and industrial 
construction plans in Jefferson County, while a c ontact in St. Louis reported steady commercial 
construction activity. Banking and Finance 
A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of la rge District banks indicated moderate changes in 
overall lending activity during the first quarter of  2012. During this period, credit standards for 
commercial and industrial loans remained unchanged , while demand for such loans was moderately 
stronger. Credit standards for commercial real estat e loans generally remained unchanged. Demand for 
commercial real estate loans ranged from unchange d to substantially stronger. Meanwhile, credit 
standards for consumer loans ranged from basically  unchanged to somewhat eased, while demand ranged 
from moderately weaker to moderately stronger. Respondents noted that credit standards for prime 
residential mortgage loans remained unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from about the 
same to substantially stronger. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Crop moisture levels from April to mid-May were classified as slightly dry to favorably moist in 
most of the District except southern Arkansas and most of Mississippi. Rates of completion for the planting of corn, cotton, rice, sorghum, and soybeans we re at least 15 percentage points higher than their 
5-year average rates in most Distri ct states, while crop emergence was al so ahead of schedule. More than 
88 percent of the winter wheat crop was rated as fair or  better, while 77 percent or more of pasture land 
was also similarly rated in all Dist rict states. The District’s year-to-date coal production for early May 
was 3.8 percent lower compared with the same period last year. Similarly, the District’s coal production 
for April 2012 was 2.6 percen t lower than in April 2011. 
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy grew at a modest to firm pace since the last report. Strength 
was noted in consumer spending, tourism, prof essional services, real estate, construction, 
manufacturing, energy and mining, and agricu lture. Firms reported difficulties hiring 
qualified candidates, although wage increases remained modest. Pr ice increases were 
generally subdued. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending increased modestly. Same-s tore sales at a Minnesota-based retailer 
increased just over 1 percent in April compar ed with a year ago; the soft gains were 
attributed to an earlier Easter  holiday and warmer weather in February and March, which 
likely pulled sales earlier into the year. Recen t sales were up slightly at a Minneapolis 
area mall where a number of stores were undergoing or planning renovations. A Montana 
bank director reported that vehi cle sales were up from a year earlier and a representative 
of an auto dealers association in North Dakot a reported strong sales during the past two 
months, particularly in the western part of th e state. Recent sales at grocery stores owned 
by a Minnesota-based company were down slightly. Meanwhile, a Minnesota-based electronics retailer announced plans to close six stores in Minnesota.  
Tourism officials and businesses were cautiously optimistic about the upcoming 
summer season. According to a survey of Mi nnesota lodging and camping properties, 39 
percent of respondents expect summer occ upancy to be up, while 15 percent expect 
decreases from a year ago. Officials in Sout h Dakota reported an increase in the number 
of tourism information requests; early warm weather increased visits to a number of 
attractions.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Construction activity increased from a y ear ago. The value of commercial building 
permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area was up in  April from a year earlier. The value and 
number of new commercial permits increase d in Fargo, N.D., during 2012 compared with 
the same period in 2011. Several new co mmercial building projects are under 
consideration in the Minneapolis area. Howe ver, respondents to the University of St. 
Thomas’s semiannual Minnesota Commercial Real Estate Survey (May) expected higher 
land and building costs, which could damp en growth in construction. Residential 
construction increased from a year ago. Th e value of resident ial building permits 
increased significantly in the Sioux Falls area in April. The number of single-family 
IX-2 
building permits increased in Minnesota in March 2012, compared with March 2011. 
Numerous new multifamily projects were pl anned for several parts of the District. 
 Commercial real estate market ac tivity increased. According to the 
aforementioned University of St. Thomas survey, respondents expected growth in 
commercial rents and occupancy. Several larg e Minnesota companies recently renewed 
or signed new leases for additional office space.  A real estate consultancy reported that 
industrial vacancy rates in the Minneapolis area decreased in  the first quarter of this year 
compared with the fourth quarter of last y ear; however, office and retail vacancy rates 
increased. Increases in residential real estate  sales continued across most of the District. 
Home sales in April were up 7 percent fr om the same period a year ago in the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of  homes for sale was down 29 percent and the 
median sales price rose by 12 percent. In th e Sioux Falls area, April home sales were up 
11 percent, inventory was down and the median  sales price rose 4 percent relative to a 
year ago.  
Services 
Activity at professional business services firms increased slightly since the last report. An 
engineering and design firm near oil produci ng areas of the Distri ct reported extremely 
strong demand for construction developments. Preliminary results of the Minneapolis 
Fed’s annual survey of professional servic es companies in May showed that sales 
revenue, space usage, and prof its are expected to increase over the next year. A medium-
sized Minnesota services firm commented th at they “feel optimistic and are trying to 
improve efficiency.” Manufacturing 
Manufacturing activity continued to expand since the last report. An April survey of 
purchasing managers by Creighton Universi ty (Omaha, Neb.) found that production 
expanded in Minnesota and the Dakotas. A lig ht industrial manufactur er in South Dakota 
reported the strongest capital expenditure leve ls in 10 years as it developed a successful 
niche business line. A cement factory in Ra pid City, S.D., is considering a $100 million 
expansion. A steel mill in Minnesota announ ced a $50 million investment in upgrades. 
Energy and mining 
Activity in the energy and mining sectors grew. Oil and gas explorati on activity increased 
in North Dakota and Montana since the last report. A biodiesel re finery in Minnesota 
announced a $20 million upgrade to switch feed st ocks from soybean oil to waste fats. 
IX-3 
District iron ore mines conti nued to operate at near capac ity. Montana hard-rock mines 
were also busy, with numerous expansions underway across the state. However, District 
limestone quarries were still suffering from reduced cement demand. 
Agriculture The agricultural sector maintained its stre ngth. Warm spring weather allowed farmers to 
get into fields early and plantings of co rn, spring wheat and soybeans in mid-May was 
well ahead of average in District states. In addition, recent rains alleviated drought 
conditions that had persisted until recen tly in Minnesota and the Dakotas. The 
Minneapolis Fed’s first quarter (April) survey of agricultura l credit conditions indicated 
that most lenders saw continued increases  in farm household income and capital 
spending, though respondents expe ct growth to moderate over the next three months. 
Agricultural output prices have come down somewhat recently. April prices received by 
farmers for soybeans, cattle and chickens incr eased from a year earlier; prices declined 
for wheat, corn, hogs, dairy products and eggs. 
Employment, Wages and Prices  
A number of employers with open positions noticed tightening in the labor market. Manufacturers in several areas reported difficulty recruiting sk illed workers, particularly 
welders. Agriculture operations in the western part of the Di strict noted difficulty finding 
workers for certain positions. An aircraft maintenance company recently confirmed plans to expand its operations in Minnesota with pot ential hiring of up to 225 people. In North 
Dakota an equipment manufacturer announced  plans to create 200 jobs and in 
northwestern Wisconsin a recreational vehicl e manufacturer will add almost 90 jobs.  
In contrast, a surprising number of la y-offs were reported recently. A food 
manufacturer announced plans to cut over 400 positions in Minnesota as part of a 
restructuring strategy. Also in Minnesota a medical devices company will lay off 220 
employees and a cleaning products manufact urer laid off 70 information technology 
workers. An aerospace manufacturer will cl ose a plant in northwestern Wisconsin, 
affecting 130 workers.  
A larger number of businesses reported wa ge increases, but the size of increases 
remained modest. According to a recent Mi nneapolis Fed ad hoc survey of business 
contacts, 65 percent reported that their comp anies were facing higher wages. Larger wage 
increases were reported in the oil drilling region of west ern North Dakota and eastern 
Montana.  
IX-4 
Price pressures were generally subdued since the last repor t, although 73 percent 
of respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad  hoc survey reported upward input cost 
pressures. Late-May Minnesota gasoline prices  were about 15 cents per gallon lower than 
mid-April and 35 cents per gallon lower than a year ago. A number of metals prices 
decreased since the last repor t. A recent budget proposal for the University of Minnesota 
includes a 3.5 percent increase for in-state undergraduates, the smallest percentage 
increase in 12 years.  
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy improved moderate ly in late April and May. Retailers and 
restaurant contacts reported str onger sales, while auto sales dec lined. Both retailers and auto 
contacts expected increased activity in the m onths ahead. Manufacturing activity rose, and the 
high-tech services industry experi enced modest growth. Transporta tion activity was flat and was 
expected to remain unchanged in the months ah ead. Residential and comm ercial real estate 
activity increased solidly with higher sales and lower vacancy rates. Banking contacts reported 
slightly higher loan demand, improved loan qual ity and increased deposits. Agricultural growing 
conditions improved, and farmland values contin ued to climb. The energy sector expanded 
further, but the oversupply of natural gas was leading to a slower pace of expansion. Most 
sectors reported higher input pri ces and final goods prices, and e xpected further increases in the 
coming months. Wage pressures increased, and firms reported some difficulty in filling positions.  
Consumer Spending. Consumer spending increased in th e retail, restaurant and tourism 
sectors but declined in the auto sector. District  contacts from every consumer sector expected 
stronger sales over the next thr ee months. Retailers reported shar ply higher sales compared to a 
month ago. Most product lines experienced gains including home goods such as dining tables, 
bedroom sets and appliances. Auto sales fell shar ply with large SUVs and trucks continuing to be 
weak sellers. However, most auto contacts rema ined satisfied with current inventory levels. 
Restaurant contacts reported increased traffic and higher ch eck amounts. Tourism activity 
increased in the District due in  part to good spring weather. Hotel occupancy held steady as 
average room rates edged up.  
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing activity in the Tenth 
District improved in May, and expe ctations for future activity were  stronger than in previous 
months. Both durable and non-durable goods ma nufacturers reported increased production. New 
orders and factory shipments increased dur ing the survey period. Manufacturing contacts 
reported that capital spending plans were much improved, and several noted plans to expand into 
new products and markets. Growth in transporta tion activity was flat, and contacts reported 
 
 X-2  
higher input prices. Capita l spending plans at transportation fi rms continued to be sluggish, and 
firms expected future activity to be uncha nged. High-tech services firms reported moderate 
growth in sales, and expectations for future act ivity were strong. Several high-tech firms reported 
difficulty in finding experienced workers, es pecially qualified soft ware developers.  
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activ ity improved during the most 
recent survey period, and commercial activity was solid. Housing starts were down compared to 
the previous survey, but builders expected new ho me construction to increa se over the next three 
months. Housing materials were readily availa ble, but several respondents had trouble finding 
skilled workers. Sales activity at constructi on supply firms surged during the survey period 
across all types of materi als, and expectations for sales con tinued to be strong. Residential sales 
were much improved from the previous surve y, and inventories continued to fall. Contacts 
reported that homes priced between $150,000 and $300,000 sold particularly well, but homes at 
the upper end of the market continued to be diffi cult to sell. Overall mortgage lending activity 
grew this survey period, but refi nancing activity was flat. The ma jority of refinancing activity 
was due to lower payments in response to low inte rest rates. Commercial real estate activity was 
solid during the survey period, but there was so me uncertainty about future activity. Vacancy 
rates fell, and contacts expected them to contin ue to fall over the next three months. Prices and 
rents were flat, but expectati ons were for some increases in  the future. Several respondents 
believed that political uncerta inty could create some wea kness in the construction and 
commercial real estate markets. 
Banking.   In the recent survey period, bankers ge nerally reported slightly stronger loan 
demand, improving loan quality, and increased de posits.  Overall loan demand was improving as 
most respondents reported stable  to increased loan demand for re sidential real estate loans, 
commercial and industrial loans, and commercial real estate loans.  Demand for consumer 
installment loans remained steady.  Credit standa rds remained largely unchanged in all major 
loan categories, and the major ity of respondents reported steady or increased deposits.  Most 
bankers reported improving loan quality compar ed to a year ago.  Additionally, every banker 
believed the outlook for loan quality over the ne xt six months would be steady or improving.  
 
 X-3  
Agriculture.  Agricultural conditions improved since the last survey. District contacts 
reported that winter wheat development was roug hly three weeks ahead of normal. Most of the 
winter wheat was rated in fai r-to-good condition. Spring planting was nearly complete, and early 
emerged crops were rated in good condition. Tight crop supplies kept cash prices high, while the prospects of a bumper 2012 crop weighed on futures prices. High feeder calf prices continued to 
support strong profits for ranchers. In contrast, pr ofits at cattle feedlots  were strained by high 
feed and feeder calf costs.  Strong export demand underpinne d profits for pork producers. 
Farmland values rose further, buoyed by farm inco mes and revenues from mineral rights leases. 
Energy.  Energy activity continued to expand in May. Drilling activity increased since 
the previous survey. However, contacts reported that storage reservoirs were full and that an 
oversupply of natural gas was beginning to resu lt in a slowdown in the pace of drilling. Oil 
prices fell during the survey period, and contacts  believed that a slumping world economy would 
keep prices steady over the next three months. Natural gas prices  rose somewhat but remained 
near historically low levels, and contacts expect ed prices to stay low due to oversupply. Firms 
reported that they would like to expand their workforces in the co ming months, but noted that it 
had been difficult to find experi enced field workers and engineers. 
Wages and Prices. District contacts repor ted higher prices for both inputs and finished 
goods, and wage pressures increased from low levels.  Manufacturers continue d to report higher 
raw material prices, but prices increased at a slower pace than earlier this year. Finished goods 
prices rose slightly in April and were flat in May. Manufacturer s expected higher prices for both 
raw materials and finished goods over the next six months although the number of contacts 
expecting an increase fell slightly. Builders re ported higher input prices , and retailers reported 
higher sales prices. Both builders and retailers expected further increases over the next three 
months. Higher food costs and menu prices we re noted by restaurant contacts who also 
anticipated raising menu prices further as food pri ces continue to rise. Wage pressures increased 
since the previous survey but remained fair ly low. The number of contacts reporting labor 
shortages remained stable, but contacts reported difficulty in filling a variety of positions including housekeeping, sales, drivers, m echanics, engineers, and skilled workmen. 
XI-1 
 
ELEVENTH  DISTRICT —DALLAS    
 
The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. 
Manufacturing activity was flat to up, demand fo r business services rose and transportation services 
activity was mixed. Energy activity remained strong, and the housing sector con tinued to improve. Retail 
sales rose moderately, and auto sales were strong. Loan demand picked up since the last report. Drought conditions improved. Most firms repor ted no change in selling prices. Em ployment levels were steady to 
slightly higher, and wage pressures remained mini mal. Most firms’ outlooks are optimistic, although 
many respondents expressed concern about U.S. polit ical uncertainty and the European debt situation.  
Prices   Most responding firms said prices were uncha nged, although some noted that input prices 
ticked up slightly. Retailers said selling prices were stable, although food prices increased. Auto dealers 
said prices were unchanged. Transportation service firms expect lower energy surcharges by July due to 
recently reduced prices for jet and diesel fuel. In cont rast, airlines expect a slight upward trend due to 
higher fuel costs compared to last year at this tim e. Agricultural producers noted lower commodity prices 
and input costs. 
The price of WTI fell from near $100 per barrel to the low $90 range over the reporting period. 
Natural gas prices rose to $2.70 MMBtu after falling under $2 in early April. Respondents said the 
substitution of natural gas for coal in power genera tion reduced inventories, although they remain 40 
percent above normal. The price of gasoline fell about 20 cents per gallon, and diesel prices fell by 15 cents. Spot prices for several petrochemical produc ts fell sharply as plants returned to production 
following maintenance, and contacts expect contract prices to follow.  
Labor Market   Employment levels were flat to up sl ightly at most responding firms. Staffing 
firms said demand picked up over the past six week s after a slight softening during the prior reporting 
period. Reports of small employment increases ca me from some high-tech, transportation, metals, 
construction materials and food manufacturers. Contacts in auto sales, staffing and transportation services 
also noted slight increases. Wage pressures remained  minimal, although wage increases were noted by 
some legal firms. 
Manufacturing   Overall demand for construction-re lated materials improved during the 
reporting period. Favorable weathe r and improved residential and commercial construction activity 
provided a boost to stone, clay and glass producers. Pr imary and fabricated metals manufacturers reported 
steady demand, and producers of lumber and relate d products noted a broad-based increase in orders. 
Construction-related outlooks were generally positive, but some contact s are concerned about domestic 
political uncertainty and unfavorable developments in Europe derailing the pickup in activity seen so far 
this year.  
XI-2 
 
High-tech manufacturers said orders continued to grow at a moderate pace. According to 
contacts, demand for logic devices was strong, while or ders and prices for memory chips remained weak. 
One respondent noted some strengthening in i ndustrial demand and orders for communications 
infrastructure equipment, such as cell phone towers. Inve ntories were near desired levels. The outlook for 
the next three to six months is for mild to moderate  growth, although one contact said a recent increase in 
new orders has raised the likelihood that producti on may pick up in the second half of the year. 
Aviation equipment manufacturers said demand w as flat during the reporting period. Contacts 
were more pessimistic in their outlooks for the y ear, citing soft demand and negative economic news as 
key factors. Recreational vehicle manufacturers reporte d weak sales, in part due to economic uncertainty 
and fuel price shocks. Food producers said sales activit y increased over the past six weeks, and orders 
were well above year-ago levels. Reports from paper manufacturers were mixed, but contacts expect 
modest sales growth for the year.  
Petrochemicals producers reported moderate dom estic demand but said export demand slowed, 
partly a result of higher U.S. plastics prices, but also  due to weaker growth in Asia and the Middle East. 
Notably, contacts said domestic PVC demand rose for the first time in a long time in response to an 
increase in housing starts and other construction. Ou tlooks for the petrochemical industry were positive, 
and announcements for new constructi on or expansion continue at a ra pid pace. Refiners said margins 
improved slightly in early May. 
Retail Sales   Retail sales grew modestly over the comparable period from a year ago and 
performed in line with contacts’ expectations. St rength was seen in sporting goods and men’s and 
women’s apparel.  Eleventh District sales growth w as stronger than the nation on average, according to a 
large national retailer. Contacts noted that consum ers still seem a bit hesitant, but business is improving 
nonetheless. Inventories are in good shape and being ma naged closely. Automobile sales continued to rise 
over the reporting period. Car sales were especially st rong, but trucks were selling well too. Contacts’ 
outlooks remain optimistic and they exp ect continued growth in vehicle sales. 
Services    Staffing services said activity picked up over the past six weeks, following a slight 
softening in demand seen during the prior reporti ng period. Shortages of skilled IT professionals 
continued, and several contacts reported an increase in demand for construction workers. Legal firms 
reported steady demand, with continued strength in corporate, intellectual property and energy services. Contacts also noted a slight uptick in estate planning, lobbying and real estate related services. 
Accounting firms noted a modest pickup in demand la rgely due to growth in mergers and acquisitions 
related activity. 
Reports from transportation service firms were  mixed. Small parcel and air cargo volumes 
increased, while railroad shipments and shipping cont ainer volumes declined dur ing the reporting period. 
XI-3 
 
Intermodal firms reported an increase in cargo volum es largely due to strong demand for oil field 
supplies.  
Airlines said passenger demand improved over the p ast six weeks. Domestic demand increased, 
while demand for international travel was flat. C ontacts said business travelers continued to be price 
sensitive and were purchasing restricted discount fa res. Responding firms expect passenger demand to 
remain steady over the next three months. 
Construction and Real Estate   Contacts in the single-family housing industry noted consistent 
indications of recovery in Texas markets. Responde nts said sales are up year-to-date, and some builders 
were beating sales expectations. Agents noted so lid sales for existing homes, and outlooks are more 
positive. Apartment market respondents said that afte r first quarter softness, demand came back stronger 
in recent months, as expected. Texas apartment market s continued to outperform other parts of the U.S., 
according to contacts. Rental rate increases slowed, but  remain relatively healthy. Apartment construction 
activity is still at low levels, but is expected  to pick up in the second half of the year.  
Commercial real estate leasing activity remain ed strong across Texas metros. Houston, in 
particular, saw robust office and industrial demand gr owth thanks to strong energy sector expansion. 
Construction activity is expected to improve modestly  in Texas markets in the second half of 2012. Some 
contacts noted a recent trepidation in the capital ma rket/lending environment due to heightened worries 
about European debt problems.  
Financial Services    Financial firms reported a modest up tick in loan demand. National banks 
reported strength in middle-market lending, auto lo ans and corporate merger and acquisition activity. 
Regional banks also noted improved sentiments. Severa l banks suggested energy-related activity remains 
robust. Some smaller business and middle-market de als have begun to crop up. Outlooks are generally 
less pessimistic, and some outright optimistic, with  an overall theme that “loan demand is slightly 
stronger.” Loan pricing remains competitive. Outsta nding loan quality continues to improve and contacts 
note fewer problem loans. 
Energy    Respondents at energy-related firms said drilling activity remained strong, and the 
District rig count grew modestly over the past six we eks. The shift from dry-gas drilling to wet-gas or oil-
directed drilling continued, and some firms noted l ogistical problems as they try to move crews and 
equipment. Overall, contacts say that outside of pr essure pumping and fracturing used in dry-gas drilling, 
the market for oil field machinery and services remains very strong. 
Agriculture    Drought conditions improved over the repor ting period, particularly in West Texas 
thanks to recent rains. Better soil moisture conti nued to improve prospects for the 2012 crop year, and 
pastures greened up for livestock producers. The whea t harvest began and yields so far were above 
average.  
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District con tinued to grow at a moderate pace during the 
reporting period of April through late May.  Price increases for final goods and services were very 
modest, and upward wage pressures were quite limited overall.  Sales of retail items rose, as did demand 
for consumer and business services.  District manufactur ing activity picked up further.  Sales remained 
robust for agricultural producers, while conditions we re mixed for providers of energy resources.  
Demand rose modestly for residential real estate and also improved a bit for commercial real estate.  
District banking contacts reported that overall loan demand edged up, and they noted further slight 
improvements in credit quality.  Wages and Prices 
 Price inflation remained quite limited for most final goods and services.  Contacts noted price 
declines for energy inputs, particularly oil, and for an  assortment of food items at the retail level.  More 
generally, upward price pressures were quite modest, as suppliers of final goods and services were readily 
able to meet the existing modest growth in demand. 
 Contacts reported that upward wage pressures we re quite limited overall.  High unemployment 
and modest demand for new hires continued to hold down compensation gains for workers in most industries and occupations. However, wage and comp ensation gains remained substantial in various 
industries and regions for workers with specialized ski lls in the application of information technology.  
Retail Trade and Services 
 Retail sales grew modestly on balance.  Gains we re reported by traditional department stores and 
discount chains alike, although contacts noted a slight ly slower pace of growth compared with the prior 
reporting period.  Inventori es generally were at or near desired levels given the  current pace of sales.  
Demand growth slowed for retailers of home furnishi ngs and major appliances, resulting in mostly flat 
sales.  Demand was largely unchanged for grocers.  Sales of new automobiles rose during the reporting 
period, although the pace of growth has moderated from  that seen in the most recent reporting periods.  
XII - 2 
Demand remained strong for used vehicles and combined  with tight inventories to keep prices elevated. 
 Demand for business and consumer services rose a bit further on balance.  Activity was largely 
flat for professional services such as legal services and accounting, as well as for health-care services.  By 
contrast, demand improved for transportation services such as trucking.  Sales rose at a modest pace for providers of technology services, with the pace held dow n in part by weaker sales to European buyers; 
however, contacts continue to anticipate that growth w ill pick up in the second half of the year.  Activity 
expanded further for radio a nd television broadcasters, spurred by rising demand for advertising slots.  
Sales activity improved further for restaurants and ot her food-service providers.  District travel activity 
continued to pick up, with contacts in major market s such as Southern California, Hawaii, and Nevada 
highlighting ongoing improvements in visito r counts and hotel occupancy rates.  
Manufacturing 
 District manufacturing activity rose further during the reporting period of April through late May.  
New orders continued to improve for manufacturer s of semiconductors and other technology products, 
and inventories were reported to be at appropriate levels given the prevailing pace of sales.  Contacts in 
the pharmaceutical manufacturing sector reported robust  demand.  Orders grew a bit for makers of 
commercial aircraft and parts, driven primarily by demand for fuel-efficient aircraft, and an extensive 
order backlog kept production rates at very high levels.  For petroleum re finers, strong global demand 
supported an uptick in capacity utilization rates.  Demand improved slightly for steel manufacturers but 
remained depressed for manufacturers of wood products.  
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand for agricultural products remained robust,  while extraction activity for energy resources 
continued to be uneven.  Orders and sales expanded further for most crop and livestock products, spurred 
in part by strong growth in overseas exports.  Howe ver, contacts noted that the costs of energy inputs 
remained quite high, and they cited renewed concerns  that drought in some areas may undermine growing 
conditions in coming months.  For energy resources, el evated price levels continued to support a pickup 
XII - 3 
in oil extraction activity.  By contrast, price dec lines for natural gas resulted in a further reduction of 
extraction activity, primarily at sites for which the extr acted amount of valuable liquid byproducts is low.  
Real Estate and Construction 
 
 District home demand improved a bit further overall, and demand for commercial real estate 
picked up slightly on balance.  Sales of new and existing homes ticked up in many areas, although the 
pace remained well below its historical average.   The pickup was supported in part by slight 
improvements in financing availability, which has b een an important factor holding down sales in the 
recent past.  Faster sales reduced the inventor y of available homes, which in turn caused home 
construction activity to rise slightly in some areas.  By contrast, home prices remained largely flat.  On 
the commercial side, vacancy rates for office and indust rial space stayed elevated throughout many parts 
of the District.  However, contacts noted widening signs of improved demand.  The San Francisco Bay 
Area and Seattle markets continued to benefit from gr owth in the technology sector, which is prompting 
rapid absorption of commercial space and encour aging new construction.  Contacts noted improved 
demand for office and retail space in othe r areas as well, such as Boise, Idaho. 
Financial Institutions 
 Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan demand showed further slight gains 
overall.  Although businesses remained  very cautious in their capital spending plans, demand edged up a 
bit further for new commercial and industrial loans.  Furthermore, reports from most sectors suggested 
that capital spending is likely to increase modestly in th e second half of the year compared with the first.  
Demand for consumer credit appeared largely unchang ed.  Further improvement in overall credit quality 
was noted, and continued fierce competition to exte nd credit to well-qualified small and medium-sized 
businesses has kept a lid on loan rates and fees.  Ov erall, however, lending standards remained somewhat 
restrictive for many types of business and consumer loans.  