 
  
               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
               W e d n e s d a y                 S e p t e m b e r  8 ,  2 0 1 0  
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
   
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
        
August 2010 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT 
  
AUGUST 2010 
 
 
  
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . i 
 First District - Boston  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I-1 
 Second District - New York  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  II-1 
 Third District - Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  III-1 
 Fourth District - Cleveland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  IV-1 
 Fifth District - Richmond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   V-1 
 Sixth District - Atlanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1 
 Seventh District - Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  V II-1 
 Eighth District - St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VIII-1 
 Ninth District - Minneapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . I X-1 
 Tenth District - Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  X-1 
 
Eleventh District - Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1 
 Twelfth District - San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XII- 1 
 
i 
 
 
Summary* 
 
 Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Dist ricts suggested continued growth in national 
economic activity during the reporting period of mid-July  through the end of August, but with widespread 
signs of a deceleration compared with preceding pe riods. Economic growth at a modest pace was the 
most common characterization of overall conditions, as provided by the five western Districts of St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Fr ancisco. The reports from Boston and Cleveland also 
pointed to positive developments or net improvement s compared with the previous reporting period.  
However, the remaining Districts of New York, Ph iladelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and Chicago all 
highlighted mixed conditions or deceleration in overall economic activity.  Consumer spending appeared to increase on bala nce despite continued consumer caution that 
limited nonessential purchases, while activity in the tr avel and tourism sector picked up relative to 
seasonal norms.  Activity was largely stable or up slightly for professional and other nonfinancial 
services.  Reports on manufacturing activity pointed to  further expansion, although the pace of growth 
eased according to several Districts.  Agricultural pr oducers and extractors of natural resources reported 
continued gains in demand and sales.  Home sales slowed further following an initial drop after the 
expiration of the homebuyer tax credit at the end of June, prompting a slowdown in construction activity 
as well.  Demand for commercial real estate remained  quite weak but showed signs of stabilization in 
some areas.  Reports from financial institutions pointed to generally stable or slightly lower loan demand 
and noted some modest improvements in credit quality.  
 Upward price pressures remained quite limited for most categories of final goods and services, 
despite higher prices for selected commodities such as grains and some industrial materials.  Wage 
pressures also were limited, although a few District s noted increased upward pressures in a narrow set of 
sectors experiencing a mismatch between job requirements and applicant skills. 
 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
 Reports on consumer spending were mixed but su ggested a slight increase on balance.  Most 
Districts reported that non-automotive retail sales rose  compared with the previous reporting period or 
                                                 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Fran cisco based on information collected on or before 
August 30, 2010.  This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts 
outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.  
ii 
 
were above their levels from 12 months earlier.  By contrast, Atlanta reported a decline in the level of 
sales, and Richmond noted that sales “sputtered” in August, while New York and Dallas reported that 
growth in retail sales slowed.  Several Districts not ed an emphasis on necessities and lower-priced goods.  
Boston reported that back-to-school purchases were focused on immediate needs; in Cleveland, 
consumers focused on “value-priced seasonal items;” and in St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco, 
sales were relatively stronger for lower-priced items .  Spending on big-ticket items such as expensive 
consumer electronics was weak according to Philadel phia, Richmond, and Dallas.  Most Districts also 
reported that sales of new automobiles and light trucks  were largely stable or up slightly during the 
reporting period, and contacts were optimistic for stable  sales or slight growth over the balance of the 
year.  A few reports indicated that inventories for various goods remained near desired levels despite 
slower sales in some cases, as retailers have b een practicing very tight inventory management. 
 Reports from most Districts pointed to consistent gains in travel and tour ist activity, with pickups 
evident in the business and leisure segments alike.  New York reported strong tourist activity that kept 
hotel occupancy rates high in Manhattan despite an increase in hotel capacity this year, while Boston 
noted that travel and tourism activity was “stronger than  expected.”  Several other Districts also reported 
rising visitor counts and hotel occupancies, notably for popular tourist destinations in the Richmond, 
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts, although sev eral pointed to continued softness in per-visitor 
spending.  Atlanta noted reduced tourist activity in areas of the Gulf Coast affected by the oil spill but 
improvements over last year in unaffected areas.  Airlin e traffic was stable to up, with Boston pointing to 
an expanded number of low-fare carriers.  
 Nonfinancial Services 
 Activity was largely stable or up slightly for professional and other nonfinancial services.  
Providers of information technology (IT) services such as computer software saw substantial revenue and 
sales gains in the Boston and Kansas City Districts,  with increased demand for IT labor reported in 
Chicago as well.  Demand for professional services such as accounting held largely steady, with 
Minneapolis and Dallas noting increases for selected t ypes of consulting and legal services.  Conditions 
were mixed for providers of real estate services, as heightened appraisal activity for refinancing purposes 
was offset by depressed home sales and consequent limited needs for agents and brokers.  Demand for 
temporary staffing services remained on an upward trend, with increases noted by Boston, Philadelphia, 
Richmond, and Minneapolis, although Chicago pointed to  a slight softening during the reporting period.  
Reports from the health-care sector were mixed:  Boston, Cleveland, and Chicago reported ongoing 
increases in demand for health-care workers, while Philadelphia indicated a flattening in demand for 
iii 
 
health-care services and San Francisco noted a declin e in the frequency of elective procedures and routine 
tests.  Demand for shipping and transportati on services generally expande d, although according to 
Cleveland the pace of growth slowed and contacts th ere expect little change from existing volumes in the 
near term.   
Manufacturing  
 Manufacturing activity expanded further on balance,  although the pace of growth appeared to be 
slower than earlier in the year.  Most Districts reported further gains in production activity and sales 
across a broad spectrum of manufacturing industries.   However, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and 
Chicago noted that the overall pace of growth slow ed, while Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Kansas City 
reported that demand softened compared with the prev ious reporting period.  Recent weakness was most 
notable for construction-related products, according to reports from Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, 
Dallas, and San Francisco.  By contrast, orders and ac tivity edged up for makers of steel and other metals 
in Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis, propelled largely by demand from the transportation equipment 
industry.  Activity among automobile makers and pa rts suppliers rose further in Richmond and held 
steady in Chicago, although it dropped temporarily in Cleveland as a result of factory retooling.  
Manufacturing activity for commercial aircraft was st eady in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts, 
although a contact in Boston reported that the industry ’s recovery has been slow.  In the Boston and San 
Francisco Districts, makers of semiconductors and ot her high-tech products saw further sales gains, while 
Dallas noted that demand held largely steady at ex isting high levels.  Among nondurable products, food 
processing stepped up in Philadelphia and San Franci sco.  Demand conditions fo r paper products were 
mixed, with increased sales and expansion plans noted in Minneapolis and St. Louis but flat to declining 
sales identified in Dallas.  Export demand was an im portant contributor to healthy conditions in the 
manufacturing sector according to Boston and Chi cago, notably for heavy machinery and autos. 
 Reports on capacity utilization were mixed.  Manufacturers of high-tech products have been 
operating near maximum capacity of late, although this  partly reflects a substantial decline in industry-
wide capacity over the past three years, as noted by Da llas.  More generally, the majority of Cleveland’s 
manufacturing contacts reported that capacity utiliza tion remained below pre-recession levels.  Capital 
spending plans for manufacturers and firms in other industries generally indicate little change or modest 
increases in coming months, based on reports from the Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas 
City, and San Francisco Districts. 
  
 
iv 
 
Real Estate and Construction 
 Activity in residential real estate markets declin ed further.  Most District reports highlighted 
evidence of very low or declining home sales, whic h many attributed to a sustained lull following the 
expiration of the homebuyer tax credit at the end of J une.  Some Districts, such as New York and Dallas, 
noted that the expiration of the tax credit created  especially weak conditions for lower-priced homes, 
while others, including Philadelphia and Kansas City, identified the high end of the market as the primary 
weak spot.  Residential construction activity declin ed in most areas in response to weak demand.  
Cleveland, St. Louis, and Minneapolis were the excep tions to this pattern of declining activity, with 
reports from their contacts indicating that residential construction activity improved of late.  Inventories 
of available homes rose in general, although the ava ilability of new homes in Atlanta was held down by 
the slow pace of new home construction.  Price m ovements were mixed, with most Districts reporting 
stability or declines of late; a few, notably Boston, Minneapolis, and San Francisco, noted that prices rose 
in some areas compared with the previous reporting period or last year.  Richmond reported that recent 
home sales were “dominated by foreclosure and s hort sales,” and Chicago reported an increase in the 
supply of foreclosed homes for sale.  Demand for commercial, industrial, and retail space generally remained depressed.  Vacancy 
rates stayed at elevated levels in general and rose fu rther in a few Districts, placing substantial downward 
pressure on rents.  Asking rents continued to decline in  parts of the New York and Kansas City Districts.  
High vacancies and negative absorption held nonresiden tial construction activity to the bare minimum in 
most Districts.  A few Districts reported exceptions to weak conditions.  Cleveland noted improved construction activity for industrial u se and educational infrastructure; this raised overall activity above 
year-earlier levels and prompted modest hiring by bu ilders.  Chicago reported an increase in inquiries for 
commercial redevelopment and risi ng construction activity for public projects, but Richmond reported 
that state and local governments cut back on construction projects. 
 Banking and Finance 
 Lending activity was stable to down slightly on net.  Most Districts reported little or no change 
from existing low levels of commercial and indust rial lending, as businesses remained quite cautious 
about expansion plans.  Dallas and San Francisco re ported that overall lending trailed off, with declines 
driven by weak business lending stemming in larg e part from uncertainty about future economic 
conditions.  Consumer lending remain ed sluggish in general, with contacts in Philadelphia and Richmond 
emphasizing the role of households’ ongoing efforts to reduce their debt burdens.  A recent flurry of 
refinancing activity spurred increased demand for resi dential mortgages in the New York, Cleveland, 
v 
 
Chicago, and Kansas City Districts, but new-purchase mortgage originations remained quite sluggish in 
general.  A few Districts pointed to increases in nonbank financing activity, including rising availability 
of trade credit in Atlanta and further increase s in venture capital funding in San Francisco. 
Lending standards were largely unchanged.  Howeve r, New York reported tighter standards in all 
lending categories, particularly for commercial mort gages, and Kansas City reported that a few banks 
tightened standards for commercial real estate loans.  By contrast, reports from Chicago indicated that 
credit availability and terms loosen ed for business and consumer loans.   Credit quality also changed little 
on balance.  Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Fran cisco noted modest improvements in overall credit 
quality, while New York reported rising delinquenci es for all categories except consumer loans and 
Atlanta reported an increase in business and household bankruptcies.   
 
Agriculture and Natural Resources  Demand for agricultural products continued to expand, and producers be nefited from relatively 
tranquil supply conditions.  Crops and livestock ge nerally sold well in Districts with extensive 
agricultural sectors, including Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  Domestic 
growers have seen increased demand for grains and ot her commodities as a result of shortages overseas.  
Growing conditions were supportive of relatively high  yields in most areas, although volatile weather 
conditions held corn and soybean yields below the record levels expected earlier in the season in the 
Chicago District.  Low moisture during parts of th e growing season also undermined yields for selected 
crops in the Richmond and St. Louis Districts, most notably for corn.  Demand and extraction activity increased for produ cers of natural resource products, including oil 
and other items used for energy output.  Rising gl obal demand spurred expande d extraction activity for 
oil, natural gas, and assorted minerals, as reported by Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco.  In the Atlanta District, o il production was barely affected by the Gulf oil spill, 
although contacts noted lingering concerns about th e longer-term business impacts of the deepwater 
drilling moratorium and higher liability insurance costs for oil extraction companies. 
  
Prices and Wages 
 Upward price pressures were very limited duri ng the reporting period, with the exception of 
selected food commodities and industrial materials.   Philadelphia reported increases in the prices of 
primary metals and wood products, Mi nneapolis pointed to higher prices for copper and lead, and Dallas 
and San Francisco reported higher prices for grain an d selected other agricultural commodities.  Atlanta 
reported that commodity and transportation-related prices rose, but their contacts indicated plans to 
vi 
 
absorb the increases into their marg ins rather than passing them on to consumers.  Chicago, Kansas City, 
and San Francisco also noted limited pass-through of cost pressures to downstream prices.   Wage pressures remained modest overall.  Of Districts commenting on wages, most identified 
little or no upward pressures or increases.  Dallas reported that wage pressures were “generally 
nonexistent,” with the exceptions of some airline a nd temporary workers.  Hiring of permanent employees 
was held down in part by employers’ reliance on temporary and contract workers, as reported by 
Philadelphia and Atlanta, although Boston noted that  conversions from temporary to permanent staff 
picked up.  Contacts in the Boston, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts noted skill mismatches between 
available jobs and the workers applying for them, which caused a slight uptick in wage pressures for 
selected jobs in a narrow set of industries.  More generally, however, the reports suggested ample supply 
of qualified applicants for open positions.   
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON  
Recent business developments are positive on averag e across the First District, but performance 
continues to vary between and within sectors. Repor ts are mostly upbeat among contacts in software and 
IT. Manufacturing firms also had mostly positive news, with recent sales at least steady for most and very 
strong in some cases. Among staffing services, positive developments outnumber negative ones. Retailers 
give mixed results, including some significant sales declines. In the commercial real estate market, 
leasing activity is flat to modest and downward pressure  on rents remains high in Boston. Residential real 
estate sales are very weak following the expiration of the home-buyer tax credit but selling prices are up 
slightly in many parts of the region. Concerning the labor market, some firms are hiring modestly or plan 
to hire soon, while others are still reluctant to hi re. The number of job-seekers is perceived as high by 
some, while others are having difficulty filling vacan cies requiring specific skills. Some software and IT 
firms are giving significant pay raises and staffing firms also note an increased willingness to pay higher 
wages among some firms. Constraints in ocean-frei ght capacity are a concern among manufacturers and 
retailers, as are increases in commodity prices. Th e outlook varies widely across sectors, from largely 
positive in manufacturing and software to cautious in retail and tourism a nd mixed among commercial 
real estate professionals.   
Retail and Tourism 
First District retailers report mixed sales results  for July and early August. Year-over-year same-
store sales range from decreases of 10 percent to increases in the low single-digits, and one contact quips 
that “flat is the new up.”  Back-to-school sales were  modest, with the consumer focused on buying for 
immediate needs only. Several retailers report increases in  foot traffic but also smaller average ticket size. 
Inventory levels are generally in line with expectations. However, decreased ocean-freight capacity has 
firms concerned about their ability to restock in a cost-effective and timely manner, forcing additional 
advanced planning. Capital spendi ng is mixed and headcount is stab le. Retailers note significant cost 
increases for food commodities, particularly dairy.  Outlooks are cautious or cautiously optimistic. 
Travel and tourism are stronger than expected. One contact attributes the trend to generous travel 
incentives, supported by an increase in the number of low-fare air carriers operating out of Boston.  
Overseas arrivals are much stronger than forecast. Busi ness travel is also more robust than anticipated, 
with travel managers using the dow nturn to leverage favorable rate s. The respondent reports modest 
hiring in the visitor industry, although the outlook remains cautious.  
Manufacturing and Related Services 
Nearly all manufacturing firms surveyed report favorable results for the second quarter. Demand 
is particularly strong at semiconductor and pharma ceutical firms. One respondent from a long-standing 
business describes the second quarter as their best ever.  In contrast, a parts supplier for the aircraft 
industry says that demand has been slow to recover from the recession. Sales he ld steady in recent weeks 
among many contacted manufacturers; multiple res pondents attribute recent demand to booming business 
in northern and western Europe. The same firms describe domestic sales as flat in comparison. In 
 
I - 2 
addition, several diversified manufacturers and one large domestic industrial manufacturer all note that 
sales leveled off in recent weeks relativ e to the first half of the year.  
Inventory levels at many contacted firms are reportedly low in comparison with pre-recession 
levels. One firm remarks that, even if demand we re to slow, it would not be as damaging as in 2008 
because most goods are being produced only as orders a rrive. Low inventory levels are also attributed to 
supply constraints. A number of firms report that su ppliers are producing at capacity due to cuts in 
capacity in 2008 and 2009. In addition, inputs for one firm have been slow to arrive because of cutbacks 
in global ocean-freight capacity. These constraints have led at least one contact to stockpile intermediate 
inputs as a hedge. Despite supply constraints, almost  all respondents report that selling prices remain 
relatively steady, although some not e continued fluctuations in raw materials prices. Some firms passed 
modest price increases on to their customers.   
Hiring remains limited among the manufacturing firms surveyed. The companies that cut 
workforces substantially during the recession are slowly  re-hiring workers, although employment at most 
of these firms remains below 2008 levels.  Some firms expect hiring to pick up next year, although one 
firm wants to see sustained growth before maki ng major hiring plans. A few semiconductor and 
pharmaceutical firms continue to have difficulties f illing skilled positions. Capital spending plans at most 
manufacturers remain moderate, as some firm’s upgrad ed IT infrastructure and other equipment.  A 
number of firms characterize the investment envi ronment as favorable but had not yet found good 
opportunities.    
Many firms remain optimistic about growth going forward. One contact notes that demand is 
much stronger than what news reports suggest. By cont rast, a few firms are not as optimistic as they were 
three months ago. Firms again mention being con cerned about the uncertainty of fiscal policy going 
forward.   
Software and Information Technology Services 
Software and information technology contacts in th e First District report that business conditions 
continued to improve. Year-over-year revenue increas es ranged from mid-single digits to 15 percent in 
the most recent quarter.  Half of contacted firms in creased their headcounts and another was “on the cusp 
of hiring.”  One contact, however, reports a modest  reduction in headcount due to restructuring. Wages 
are steady or up notably, with some merit increases in the range of 3 to 5 percent.  Prices held steady and 
one contact observes less discounting pressure relative to  a year ago.  Half of contacted firms say that 
they have increased capital and technology spending re lative to last year in order to expand or upgrade 
equipment; remaining contacts held capital and technology expenditures steady. The outlook among 
contacts is moderately positive. Most expect a conti nuation or slight acceleration of current growth rates.  
Staffing Services 
The majority of First District staffing contact s report that business continues to strengthen, 
although a few experienced stagnant or inconsistent activity over the past three months. Most contacts 
describe business since the end of Q2 as “fair to good” or  “generally positive,” with revenue growth in the 
 
I - 3 
single digits. Year-over-year revenue changes vary wide ly, from down slightly to up by over 40 percent. 
Labor demand increased, particularly in the light i ndustrial, information technology, and health care 
sectors; however, the consensus among contacts is that j obs are hard to fill. A few contacts report that the 
supply of job seekers is plentiful but that clients are reluctant to hire; others said that recruiting workers 
with specific skills has become more difficult. Bill rates and pay rates are steady or up slightly, as many 
clients show increased willingness to pay higher rat es for quality workers. The number of conversions 
from temporary to permanent staff increased and permanent placements picked up. Several contacts 
express concern over rising costs, particularly work ers’ compensation, health insurance, and state 
unemployment insurance taxes. Despite these concerns , contacts predict continued growth in the coming 
quarter.   
Commercial Real Estate 
Contacts in Hartford, Boston, and Portland describ e commercial leasing activity as flat in recent 
weeks, while a Providence contact describes activity as healthy, notwithstanding some seasonal slowing 
in recent weeks. Lease renewals and relocations r esulted in net negative absorption across the region as 
businesses continue to consolidate operations. Invest ors continue to bid aggressively for low-risk 
properties, while demanding steep discounts on distressed  assets. Contacts in Hartford and Portland both 
are increasingly pessimistic concerning the outlook based on weak forecasts for job growth, while a 
Providence contact sees potential for significant positiv e absorption in the downtown office market based 
on deals currently under discussion. Also on the bright side, loans are flowing to new condominium 
conversions in core Boston neighborhood s based on increasing buyer demand.     
Residential Real Estate 
New England contacts report large year-over-year  declines in home sales. In July, the greater 
Boston area reportedly had the fewest sales in ove r a decade while other parts of the region also 
experienced very weak sales. Nonetheless, contacts observe relative calm among r ealtors regarding weak 
sales activity. They understand that the home-buyer ta x credit moved sales forward in time, leaving fewer 
buyers in the market following the expiration of the incentive. Some contacts are optimistic that a 
recovering economy and low interest rates on mortgag es, particularly for buyers with good credit, will 
draw buyers into the market in the near future.   
The number of homes and condos on the market increased around the District. A couple of 
respondents in Massachusetts expect the increased invent ory, and resulting greater choice, to lure more 
buyers to the market; conversely, a New Hampshir e contact is concerned about the excess supply of 
homes. The median price of homes and condos moved up in most parts in New England. Such moves are 
attributed to a greater fraction of sales coming from hi gher-end properties rather than to a general increase 
in prices. The only exception to this trend is New Hampshire, where prices fell 1 percent year-over-year. 
Contacts expect prices to remain stable in the coming months, although they anticipate slower sales for 
the rest of year due to the expiration of the tax credit and perceived lack of job security.     
    
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
On balance, the Second District’s economy showed  signs of decelerating since the last report.  
Input prices have continued to rise moderately, while consumer prices appear to be steady to down 
slightly.  General merchandise retailers report that  sales have slowed since the last report, though 
auto dealers categorize sales as fairly good. Commercial real estate markets have generally been steady to softer since the last report.  Residential real estate sales markets weakened to very low levels, though New York City’s rental market cont inued to improve modestly.  Manufacturing-sector 
contacts report some further deceleration in business activity.  Tourism activity in New York City 
has been steady at a strong level since the last report, buoyed by rising business travel.  Overall, the 
labor market, though still slack, has shown further m odest signs of improvement.  Finally, bankers 
report steady to weaker loan demand, steady to higher delinquency rates and some tightening in credit standards, but also some narrowing in loan spreads.  
Consumer Spending  
Non-auto retailers report that sales have slowed across the District since the last report, with 
comparable-store sales running just 2-3 percent ahead of a year earlier, on average, in July and up just 1-2 percent in the first few weeks of August.  The slowing has been particularly pronounced at New York City stores.  Two major shopping malls in western New York State also report that sales weakened in July through early August, and they report substantial discounting—especially at 
clothing retailers.  Despite this recent slowing, most contacts continue to report that inventories 
generally remain at favorable levels.  Contacts report steady to modestly declining selling prices and acquisition costs. One contact notes that steep disc ounting has been necessary to move merchandise.  
Auto dealers in the Rochester area report that sales of new autos were down roughly 10 
percent from a year ago in July and down 15 to 20 percent in the first half of August, while Buffalo-
area dealers report a 5 percent year-over-year increase in July and project a moderate decline in August.  Still, contacts in both areas describe the current sales pace as fairly good, with the 12-month 
 
 II-2 
comparisons depressed by last summer’s “Cash for clunkers” program.  Dealers report that both retail 
and floor-plan credit conditions have continued to improve.  
Tourism activity in New York City has been st eady at a strong level since the last report. 
Manhattan hotels report that occupancy rates remained close to 90 percent in July and August, even 
as the number of hotel rooms has risen by more than 5 percent over the past year.  Moreover, room rates continued to run 10-15 percent ahead of this time last year.  Business travel has reportedly increased in recent months, accounting for a growi ng share of revenues.  Broadway theaters report 
that attendance picked up a bit in the latter part of July and remained brisk in August—up roughly 5 
percent from a year earlier, though the average ticket price was down 4 percent in August from 
comparable 2009 levels.  Overall revenues were up moderately from a year earlier in July but flat in the first three weeks of August.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Housing markets have shown further signs of softening since the last report, with much of the 
weakness again attributed to the expiration of the home-buyer tax credit.  Buffalo-area Realtors say 
the market has cooled dramatically and describe home sales activity as “totally dead” in July and early August; historically low mortgage rates are said to be having little if any positive effect.  They also report that pending sales activity has fallen sharply and that the number of active listings has increased.  One contact in western New York Stat e anticipates consolidation in the real estate 
industry, as some agents and brokers are likely to merge or exit the market. Across New York State 
more broadly, the number of sales transactions fell by roughly half from June to July—a far steeper drop than the seasonal norm—and was down 35 percent from a year earlier.  The median reported sales price rose in July and was up from a year earlier, though one industry contact notes that this 
may reflect a shift in the mix, as the expiration of the tax credit predominantly affected the lower end 
of the market.  An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that market conditions appear to be weak but concedes that underlying fundamentals are difficult to gauge during this perennially 
 
 II-3 
slow season.  With builders holding off on new construction, inventories have gotten quite low, 
though prices still seem to be drifting lower.  Most of the multi-family development along New Jersey’s “Gold Coast” (across from Manhattan) has now shifted to rentals.   
In New York City, conditions were more mixed.  Activity in the city’s co-op and condo 
market has fallen off by somewhat more than the seasonal norm in July and August, following a brisk second quarter; activity has dropped off particularly sharply on Long Island and, in general, at the lower end of the market.  A leading appraisal firm reports that prices remain essentially flat in Manhattan and across New York City generally. The appraisal business has reportedly remained 
strong.  Manhattan’s rental market, though still somewh at slack, has continued to recover: rental 
activity has remained stable at a moderate level, while effective rents have rebounded—contract rents have risen only modestly, but landlords are offer fe wer concessions (i.e. fewer months free rent).  A 
considerable volume of new development will be coming onto the market, probably largely as rentals, in the months ahead.   
Office markets across the District were generally  steady to weaker since the last report.   
Vacancy rates were steady throughout most of the District, though they increased modestly in 
Manhattan and the Albany area.  Asking rents were also little changed overall; they edged up in the Long Island and Syracuse areas but edged down in the northern New Jersey and Albany markets.  Asking rents are still down sharply from a year ago in Manhattan and down moderately in Long 
Island and northern New Jersey; however, rents are up from a year ago in the Buffalo, Syracuse and 
Albany areas.  Industrial markets were also steady to  weaker across the District since the last report.  
Industrial vacancy rates rose modestly across the New York City metro area and held steady in the Buffalo and Rochester areas.  Asking rents were generally down 3-4 percent from a year ago.    
Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing firms in the District report some leveling off in conditions in July and August, 
after reporting fairly widespread improvement during the first half of the year.  However, a sizable 
 
 II-4 
number of manufacturing contacts indicate that they  are increasing employment.  Non-manufacturing 
firms report ongoing improvement in general business conditions and continue to report moderate increases in employment; they remain fairly optimistic about the near term outlook.  Both 
manufacturers and other firms report ongoing increases in prices paid but only modest changes in 
selling prices.  Separately, a trade association survey of New York State firms, conducted in July, indicates fairly widespread optimism about revenue growth and notes that far more respondents plan to increase than decrease head-counts in the next year.   
A major NYC employment agency, specializing in office jobs, reports that, while the job 
market is difficult to gauge during the slow su mmer season, market conditions appear to be 
improving gradually and conditions are not as dire as last summer.  The pool of available candidates is not as large as it was last summer; however, some people who had given up looking are starting to come back. 
Financial Developments  
Contacts at small to medium sized banks in the District report decreased demand for 
consumer loans and commercial mortgages, and steady demand for commercial and industrial loans.  Demand for residential mortgages picked up, but this may largely reflect refinancing of existing loans (which rose sharply).  Respondents indicate a tightening of credit standards for all categories—
particularly in the commercial mortgage category.  For the first time in well over a year, bankers 
report a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds—primarily for residential mortgages.  
Bankers report little or no change in spreads for other loan categories.  Finally, bankers’ responses 
point to increased delinquency rates for residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and commercial and industrial loans but little change in delinquencies for consumer loans. 
 
 III - 1 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Business conditions in the Third District have been mixed since the last Beige Book. 
Manufacturers, on balance, reported slight decrea ses in shipments and new orders in August. 
Retailers posted seasonal increases in sales as  well as year-over-year gains. Motor vehicle 
dealers also generally posted ye ar-over-year gains but indicated th at sales have been only steady 
in recent weeks. Third Distri ct banks reported steady loan vol ume outstanding in the past few 
weeks. Residential real estate agents and homebuilders said that there has been no rebound from 
the sharp drop in home sales that followed the ex piration of the federal ta x credit for purchases. 
Contacts in the commercial real es tate sector said there has been  practically no change since the 
last Beige Book in the generally weak market co nditions around the District. Service-sector firms 
reported mostly flat or very sl ight increases in activity since mid-summer. Business firms in the 
region indicated that prices of most goods and services ha ve been steady, although there 
continued to be reports of increased prices fo r some metals and wood pr oducts. Several retailers 
said they were receiving indications from supp liers that wholesale prices will be increased 
toward the end of the year. 
The outlook among Third District business contacts is positive but not strong. 
Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments and orders during the next six months. Retailers 
expect sales to expand slightly but see no signs that the pace of  growth will quicken. Bankers 
expect little or no growth in lending in the near term. C ontacts in both residential and 
commercial real estate expect fl at activity during the rest of th e year. Service-sector companies 
expect slow growth for the rest of the year. 
 
Manufacturing 
Third District manufacturers re ported slight decreases in sh ipments and new orders from 
July to August, on balance, as well as a decreas e in order backlogs. Slower activity was reported 
in most of the major manufacturing sectors in the District. Howeve r, producers of wood 
products, food products, industrial materials, a nd measuring and testing equipment reported 
increased demand for their products.  
 
 
 III - 2 
Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to improve during the next six 
months, on balance. Among the firms surveyed in August, about 40 percent expect increases in 
new orders and shipments, and about 20 percent expect decreases. Capital spending plans among 
area manufacturers remain positive, overall, but are not strong. About one-third of the firms 
polled in August plan to increase expenditures fo r new plant and equipment, and about one-fifth 
expect to reduce spending. Several manufacturi ng executives indicated th at uncertainties about 
economic conditions and policies were deterring a dvances in business activity. One noted that, 
“There is no sign of sustainable improveme nt in demand, so we remain cautious about 
inventories, capital spending, a nd hiring.” Another said, “Investm ent spending is not increasing 
because of concern about tax in creases on business owners.”  
 
Retail 
Third District retailers reporte d that sales rose from July to  August for the back-to-school 
shopping period, and most of the stores survey ed posted year-over-year gains for the period. 
Store executives continued to note that much of  the year-over-year improvement in sales has 
been a consequence of last year ’s poor results; nevert heless, many said the fundamental trend in 
sales was beginning to strengthen. Some merchants noted relatively healthy sales of apparel and 
small appliances, albeit with significant discount ing, but weak sales of big-ticket consumer 
electronic products.  Most store executives descri bed inventories as bei ng in line with current 
and expected sales. Looking ahead, most of the retailers contacted for this report said they 
expected modest growth in sales through the end of the year. The consensus was reflected in the 
comment of one store executive, “We are in a recovery, but it will not get stronger until 
employment increases.” 
Third District auto dealers re ported roughly steady sales duri ng July and August at a rate 
somewhat above the year-ago pace. Dealers expect sales to continue to run at about the current 
rate for the rest of the year. However, some dealers said manufacturers’  incentives are supporting 
sales of current model-year vehicles, and sales could slip when that supply is depleted and 
replaced by new model-year vehicles. 
Tourism officials and industry executives in the region generally reported increased 
activity compared with last ye ar, although most noted that over all business remained below the 
levels of 2007 and 2008. Contacts in dicated that travel and tour ism revenue was only modestly 
 
 III - 3 
above the year-ago level as lowe r spending per person partially offset increased numbers of 
people visiting the region ’s tourist attractions. 
 
Finance 
Total outstanding loan volume at most of th e Third District banks contacted for this 
report has been virtually level since the last Beige Book. Comme rcial bank lending officers said 
there has been a slight increase in credit exte nded on home equity lines, but practically no 
change in outstandings in othe r credit categories. Bankers con tinued to report low demand for 
both consumer and business loans. “It’s still a deleveraging story,” one banker said. Commercial 
bank officers indicated that credit quality has been steady or has im proved slightly since the last 
Beige Book.  
Looking ahead, Third District bankers expect little, if any, growth until both consumer 
and business confidence strengthen. Some bankers said business lending could begin to move up 
in the near term, but the consensus was that loan  growth overall will be sl ight until there are clear 
signs that economic c onditions are improving.  
 
Real Estate and Construction 
Contacts in residential real estate markets reported that  the low rate of sales that took 
hold after the expiration of the fe deral income tax credit for home  purchases has persisted into 
July and August for both new and existing homes . For both new and existing homes, contacts 
reported little change in prices , and they noted that lower-pri ced homes continued to sell at a 
relatively better pace than higher-p riced homes. Residential real estate contacts expect sales to 
remain slow during the fall and winter. Although  the inventory of homes for sale has not 
changed much recently, some contacts expect an in crease in the spring of next year. One agent 
said, “A lot of people who don’t need to sell ri ght now have taken their homes off the market, 
and they will probably jump back in as soon as the market appears to be coming back.” 
Nonresidential real estate firms indicated that  there has been little change in commercial 
and industrial markets since the last Beige B ook. Contacts reported that purchases of income-
producing properties by investors ha ve picked up somewhat, but they said that commercial 
construction activity remains very slow, and there are few, if any, indications that new projects 
will be started in the near future. Commercial re al estate contacts expect market conditions to 
 
 III - 4 
show little change for at least th e rest of the year. They believe that recent increases in available 
space are likely to restrain lease rates and, as one said, “Put a damper on future construction.” 
 
Services 
Service-sector firms generally reported minima l gains or flat rates of activity since the 
previous Beige Book. A large business services fi rm reported that client  companies were not 
contracting for as much business as they had i ndicated earlier in the ye ar. Several health-care 
organizations noted recent flatte ning in activity that is interru pting a long growth trend. In 
contrast, some temporary employment agencies  noted that demand had picked up recently. 
Looking ahead, most of the services firms contacted for this report expect gr owth to be slow for 
the rest of the year. Some have reduced their forecasts; as one contact said, “It looks like we 
were a little too optimistic earlier this year.”  
 
Prices and Wages 
Reports on input costs and output  prices indicate little chan ge since the last Beige Book. 
Most of the manufacturing firms polled in August reported no change  from July in the costs of 
the commodities they use or the products they make. However, producers of primary metals and 
wood products raised prices. Construction firms ga ve mixed reports on prices, with some noting 
steady materials costs and some indicating incr eases for a variety of materials. Retailers 
generally noted that both wholesale costs and retail prices have been mostly steady, although 
several indicated that they expect wholesale price increases from their suppliers during the fourth quarter of this year. 
Business firms in the region reported no signi ficant change in wages. Employment 
agencies reported that client companies have be gun to fill positions that have been open but do 
not appear to be adding employees . Some staffing firms said client companies are looking to rely 
more on temporary and contract workers to meet variable and uncertain workloads, rather than 
hiring permanent employees. 
 
               IV - 1   
  
FOURTH DISTRICT  – CLEVELAND 
On balance, economic activity in the Fourth District showed a sli ght improvement during 
the past six weeks.  Manufacturer s reported that new orders and pr oduction levels were stable or 
marginally lower.  An uptick was seen in residential and nonresiden tial construction, while 
retailers and auto dealers experienced a small ri se in sales.  Reports from energy producers and 
freight haulers were generally favorable.  Demand by businesses and consumers for new loans 
remained weak.    
The pace of new hiring has diminished, with onl y scattered reports of increased payrolls 
from manufacturers, nonresiden tial builders, and auto dealer s.  Overall, staffing-firm 
representatives noted little cha nge in the number of new job openings, with available openings 
concentrated in healthcare and the skilled trades .   Wage pressures continue to be contained.  
Apart from a rise in steel and agricultural commodity prices, raw materials a nd product pricing 
were generally stable.     
Manufacturing.  Reports from District f actories show that production levels were mainly 
steady or down slightly during th e past six weeks.  Changes in new orders mirrored those in 
output.  Production was higher on a year-over-year basis, with  several contacts citing double-
digit increases.  A large majority of respondents expect output will stay at current levels for the 
near term.  Those anticipating a drop in producti on attributed it primarily to seasonal factors or 
the continuing slump in residential constructi on.  Most steel producer s and service centers 
reported that volume was stable or increasing.  Shipments are being driven by energy-related, 
auto, and heavy equipment indus tries.  Construction volume remains weak.  Although underlying 
uncertainty exists, more than half of our steel contacts expect that the current level of business 
activity is sustainable in the near  term.  District auto  production showed a la rge drop in July on a 
month-over-month basis, due to retooling for model changeovers.  In terms of year-over-year 
comparisons, production rose substantially for both domestic and foreign nameplates.   
Only minor shifts in inventories were noted, mostly on the up side.  A majority of our 
contacts stated that utilization rates remain  below pre-recession levels, with little change during 
the past few weeks.  Capital outlays continue at relatively low levels , with any significant 
increases due to investment pr ojects that had been previously  delayed.  Steel producers and 
service center representatives re ported that raw material pr ices are rising, although most 
indicated that their product pr icing remains reasonably stable .  A few have announced price 
increases that will go into effect as early as Se ptember.  Other than a sharp rise in agricultural 
commodity prices, raw material co sts have been fairly steady.  We heard only scattered reports 
of companies hiring new workers, although seve ral firms have extended work hours.  Wage 
               IV - 2   
  
pressures are contained.   
Real Estate.  An uptick was seen in  new home construction dur ing the past six weeks 
and it is on par with year-ago levels.  Homebuild ers expect construction to remain sluggish going 
into 2011.  Tight credit markets continue to ha mper contractors from purchasing land or 
constructing spec houses.  Our contacts tell us  that the move-up price-point category is 
outperforming the entry-level and third-time ho me-buyer categories.  New home prices have 
shown little movement since our la st report and on a year-over-year basis.  Other than reductions 
in lumber prices, construction material costs he ld steady.  General contra ctors and subcontractors 
continue to work with very lean crews. 
Reports by nonresidential bu ilders indicate some improvement in construction activity 
since our last report.  When comparing to year-a go levels, activity is as good or better according 
to almost all of our contacts.  Backlogs are reasonably healthy, though two builders noted that 
their backlogs are being de pleted at a rapid pace.  Inquiries an d new projects generally fall within 
the industrial and education categor ies.  Most of our contacts e xpect little change in business 
conditions during the next 6 to 12 months, citin g some weakness in inqu iries and uncertainty 
about economic growth.  Reports of a small increase  in construction material  costs, especially for 
steel, were widespread, and the availability of project financi ng has improved slightly.  General 
contractors cited an uptick in payrolls.  Subcontractors remain  underutilized and are taking on 
projects at cost.    
Consumer Spending.  For the period from mid-July  through mid-August, retail  sales 
generally showed some improvement when compar ed to the previous 30-day period.  Purchases 
rose slightly on a year-over-year basis.  Still, consumers remain cautious in their purchases and 
are focusing on value-priced seasonal items.  Go ing into the fourth quarter, retailers expect 
conservative sales growth.  Two of our contacts noted modest price incr eases by their suppliers, 
which they have passed through to consumers.  Marg ins are up slightly for most of our contacts.  
Other than replacement workers, retailers plan no  additional hiring until the holiday season.    
Auto dealers saw new vehicle sales strengthe n from mid-July through mid-August, when 
compared with the previous 30 days.  Reports also showed improving sales on a year-over-year 
basis.  Expectations call for vehicle purchases to stabilize at current levels in the upcoming 
months.  Many dealers continue to say that thei r inventories are at low levels.  Used vehicle 
purchases are beginning to soften.  Interest rates for auto loans are competitive, although 
arranging financing for customers with less than high credit ratings remains a challenge.  Several 
auto dealers noted that they are undertaking faci lity upgrades to comply with OEM demands, and 
they are doing incremental hiri ng to meet customer demand.   
               IV - 3   
  
Banking.  The market  for business lending remains soft, with bankers generally 
characterizing the demand for new commercial and industrial loans as steady or slowly 
improving.  Commercial real estate  lending is particularly weak.  Interest rates moved by only a 
few basis points.  On the consumer side, conve ntional loan demand is weak.  Those seeing an 
uptick attributed it mainly to consumers looki ng for home equity loans and competitive pricing.  
Most of our contacts said that  the demand for residential mortga ge refinancing is very strong, 
while new-purchase mortgage originations continue  at a slow pace.  Core deposits held steady or 
increased at almost all banks, with much of th e growth occurring in transaction accounts.  
Reports on credit quality were mixed, while deli nquency rates declined somewhat.  Employment 
rolls and wages showed little change.   
Energy.  Reports indicate steady to moderate in creases in oil and natural gas output 
during the past six weeks, with output expected to remain at current levels in the near term.  A 
big push is on to lease large tracts of farmland in eastern Ohio counties for the Marcellus Shale 
play.  Farmers are being offered well-above average market rates for drilling rights.  Spot prices 
for oil and natural gas are flat or down slightly.  Coal production has been stable since our last 
report, with little change expected.  Although summer cooling demand grew significantly from 
year-ago levels, resulting in stockpiles being dr awn-down to normal levels, utilities have not 
increased their coal purchases.  Metallurgical  coal shipments to Brazil and Asia were 
characterized as very strong.  Prices for coal were mixed but are tending to the up side.  Credit 
availability is affecting capital spending:  A coal producer canceled a machinery purchase 
because he could not obtain financing, while an energy company is expanding drilling operations 
due to a successful refinancing.  Staffing levels are steady, and little hiring is expected in the 
near future.   
Transportation.  Freight transport executives repor ted continuing favorable volume 
trends, though the rate of growth seen in the past few months is slowing.  Expectations call for 
current volume to be sustained in the near term.  Two executives noted that  they have been able 
to successfully negotiate rate in creases, resulting in some impr ovement to their bottom lines.  
Several of our contacts reporte d that quoted prices for tracto rs and trailers have risen 
substantially, due mainly to complying with new environmental standards.  However, these price 
increases may push back time tables for purchasing replacement equipment until sometime in 
2011.  Otherwise, only modest price increases we re noted for materials and services used by 
freight haulers.  Current  hiring is for replacemen t only, not adding capacity.  
V-1 
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview. Signs of slowing or contracting economic ac tivity became more prevalent in the Fifth 
District since our last report. Manufacturing activity continued to expand, but a slowdown in the pace of 
expansion that began several mont hs ago continued into August. Tourism also improved, although 
discounting was often needed to attract visitors. We received mixed reports of activity at services-
providing firms, while retailers re ported flat-to-weakening sales over the last month. The financial and 
real estate sectors generally remained soft, with sever al reports by residential Realtors indicating further 
declines in both closed and pending home sales in  recent months. The agricultural sector enjoyed 
increased rainfall, but the benefits were too late fo r some crops. Survey respondents in the retail sector 
cited cuts in the number of permanent job hires, but temp agencies noted increased demand for workers 
from the manufacturing sector.   Retail.   Retail sales sputtered in August, with most merchants reporting either flat or contracting 
activity. Sales declined at several building su pply businesses as well as lawn and garden retail 
establishments. An executive at a hard ware store chain in central Virgin ia commented that sales were flat, 
and he had redistributed inventory across store locati ons as part of an ongoing cost reduction plan to 
survive the weak housing market. The store manager fo r a discount chain store in central North Carolina 
reported erratic apparel sales; however, he and several other retailers were relieved that early results from 
back-to-school sales on other items were at least sa tisfactory. Although grocery store sales generally 
grew, an executive at a Southwestern Virginia lo cation reported that “margins are under constant 
pressure.” Big-ticket sales remained weak, according to several contacts. A car dealer in the Tidewater 
area of Virginia and another in the South Carolina Pi edmont indicated that their dealerships were seeing 
gradual improvement. However, contac ts at other dealerships reported a slowdown in sales. In addition, 
several contacts at department stores expressed worry about soft holiday sales later this year. Our survey 
respondents indicated that retail price growth was mo derate; average wages in the service sector rose.  
Services.   Services-providing firms also gave mixed re ports. Contacts at healthcare organizations 
noted that demand was typical for the summer, while airport officials and electrical contractors saw a 
small increase in demand for their services. A tele communications contact reported accelerating revenues, 
while several administrative-support firms cited flat or slowing revenue growth. Local officials in Norfolk, Virginia noted that a recently announced sh ut-down of major military facilities would affect a 
large number of civilian contractors. Community lead ers indicated that they will be vying for other 
military projects. Price growth slowed slightly at  services firms in recent we eks, according to survey 
respondents. 
 Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity continued to expand in late July and August, but 
some sources indicated a slowdown in demand over the last month. A chemical manufacturer commented 
V-2 
that new equipment was being installed at his co mpany with the expectation that the economy would 
continue to grow. Moreover, a packaging manufactu rer informed us that demand was stronger at his 
company, and a parts supplier indicated that raw ma terial inventories had decreased and his suppliers 
were having a hard time keeping up with demand at his firm. He added that his company was working 
Saturdays to meet demand and that inventories of  finished goods remained below desired levels. A 
majority of survey respondents reported that shipme nts, new orders, and employ ment continued to grow, 
but at a slower pace than a month ago. Some declines were reported; for example, a manufacturer of 
exterior doors for residential housing said that all ac tivity had ground to a halt in the building products 
industry. He noted that the slowdown starte d in May and continued through August.   
 Finance. Banking was widely described by contacts as weak and relatively unchanged since our 
last assessment. Several bankers not ed that consumer loan demand re mained soft, as consumers continued 
to reduce debt, and mortgage demand centered mostly  on refinancing with exis ting clients. Small business 
loan demand was also described by most contacts as soft, as firms struggled with weak demand. One 
community bank official stated that auto dealers had difficulty obtaining floor-plan loans, even though 
they needed more inventory to support the current sales rate. A bank economist reported some 
improvement in equipment expenditure financing, wh ich was mostly to replace out-dated technology and 
not to increase capacity. Tighter controls on credit car ds, such as higher fees on overdrafts, were cited by 
one banker as limiting consumers’ credit card usage. Cr edit quality was mostly unchanged, with several 
bank contacts noting no increase in delinquencies or late payments.   
Real Estate.   Real estate markets remained weak over the last four to six weeks. There were 
more reports of declining activity, especially in th e residential sector. For example, several Realtors 
indicated that closed sales were flat to down in July and pending sales dropped in August both from a 
year-ago and on a seasonally adjusted month-over-month basis. Moreover, the home sales that did occur 
were dominated by foreclosure and short sales. A hous ing expert in the Hampton Roads area of Virginia 
stated that, with mortgage rates low and prices still fa lling, buyers were very picky and in no hurry to 
close deals.  Several Realtors complained about buyers ha ving more difficulty obtaining financing and 
about the amount of time required to get mortgage loan  approvals. One Realtor stated that sales activity 
would benefit substantially if banks  could speed up the process. Most R ealtors cited continuing declines 
in home prices. Most Realtors said that the high-end market was extremely sluggish and often limited to corporate relocations. In contrast, however, a Realtor in the greater Washington, D.C. area reported that 
July sales were stronger than expected and that  homes below $250,000 generally moved quickly.  
On the commercial side, construction remained soft and there was continuing downward pressure 
on rents. Several commercial Realtors stated that  both uncertainty about the economy and confusion 
about recent reforms were key factors in holding back  sales and construction. Most contacts noted that 
vacancy rates were still rising. One developer attr ibuted less demand for new building space from small 
V-3 
business startups to the fact that laid-off workers we re facing diminished savings due to the severe stock 
market and real estate slumps. In addition, a paving materials supplier reported that local sales of crushed 
stone, which is used as a base for laying concrete and other paving materials, were non-existent. State and 
local governments cut back construction projects as well, according to contacts. 
 Tourism. Tourist activity strengthened across the Di strict since our last report. Along the 
District’s coast, a contact in Myrtle Beach said that  visitations were up in recent weeks, compared to a 
year ago, with slightly longer stays. Considerable  increases in discretionary expenditures also positively 
affected the retail and hospitality sectors.  However,  reports from Baltimore, Washington, and Charleston, 
S.C. indicated that, while tourism picked up, stays we re shorter and spending was lower than in the past. 
A manager from Virginia Beach also stated that, ev en though hotel bookings we re up, vacationers were 
shortening their length of stay.  A contact from Char leston, S.C. mentioned that hotel occupancy was up 
substantially from a year ago, although hotels were discounting to get people “in the door.”  People were 
often described as “taking staycations”— visiting near by attractions, such as theme parks, museums, and 
historical areas, rather than taking vacations away from home. Contacts both along the seaboard and at mountain resorts reported that bookings for the La bor Day weekend were stronger than a year ago.    
Labor Markets.  Reports on Fifth District labor market activity was generally mixed in recent 
weeks. In service sector labor markets, survey respond ents said that hiring was flat at services-providing 
firms, while retail job cuts were widespread. Ho wever, survey respondents from most manufacturing 
industries indicated continued mild expansion of em ployment and weekly production hours, but average 
wages slowed. Several contacts at temporary employm ent agencies reported generally stronger demand 
for temporary help since our last report, particularly  in manufacturing.  For example, a contact at an 
automotive plant told us that they had hired bot h additional full-time employees and temporary labor.  
Increased demand for temporary workers was reported by a wide array of service industries, including 
professional services, life sciences, banking, health care, and government.  
Agriculture:  In many sections of the District, soaking rains helped to refresh crops and improve 
pasture conditions. It was too late for corn, however , and in some areas of Virginia farmers shifted 
drought-stricken corn fields to cove r crops and small grains.  Analysts in Virginia reported that the corn 
harvest had very poor yields.  Elsewhere  in Virginia, flooding resulted in damage to silage corn, tobacco, 
vegetables, and both standing and baled hay.  In contrast,  the corn harvest was ahead of schedule in the 
Carolinas, although heavy showers hampered field work  for some growers in both states.  In West 
Virginia, pasture conditions ranged from very poor to exce llent, but most fields were reported to be in fair 
to poor condition.  Also, cattle producers in Virginia c ontinued to cull herds due to reduced feed supplies.  
On a brighter note, ninety-four percent of peach es had been harvested in South Carolina, and the 
watermelon and cantaloupe harvest was nearing completi on in that state. In Maryland, the peach harvest 
was 80 percent completed and a pples were 20 percent harvested.
 VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Sixth District business contacts i ndicated that the pace of economic 
activity continued to slow in July and August.  Retailers reported a decrease in traffic and 
sales, and their outlook was less positive than in previous months.  Reports from the 
District’s tourism sector were mixed as cont acts outside of the oi l-spill affected Gulf 
coast experienced positive growth, but areas from Louisiana to the Florida panhandle saw 
significant declines in visitors. Residential real  estate contacts noted that the pace of new 
and existing home sales slowed, and their ou tlook remained pessimistic.  Nonresidential 
real estate activity remained weak. Manufactur ers reported that the pace of new orders 
growth slowed. Banking credit conditions re mained constrained and loan demand was 
reportedly weak. Labor markets improved mode stly, but most businesses maintained a 
strong preference for increasi ng the hours worked of exis ting staff and expanding their 
use of temporary hires rather than for hi ring permanent employees. Transportation and 
material prices rose slightly, but most firms expressed limited ability to pass increases through to consumers.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Most District merchants reported that traffic 
and sales decreased in July and August. Retaile rs continued to keep inventory levels low 
and the outlook was less positive than in previous months. District automobile dealers 
indicated that sale s increased from a year ago.     
The oil spill had a negative impact on tourism along the affected Gulf Coast. 
Outside of areas affected by the oil spill, tourism continued to show signs of improvement compared with last year. Hospita lity contacts in Miami, Nashville, New 
Orleans, and Orlando experienced increasing hot el occupancy rates in July and August. 
In addition, northeast Florida, Georgia, a nd mountain resorts in Tennessee saw an 
increase in activity – some reportedly as a result of deflected business from the oil 
affected areas. The cruise-line industry cited a pickup in traffic and a modest increase in 
prices.  
Real Estate and Construction.   Residential real estate reports showed that home 
sales weakened further in July and August comp ared with a year ago.  Realtors noted that 
existing home sales fell slightly, while homebui lders said that new home sales fell further 
below the year-earlier level. New home cons truction softened further from already low 
 VI-2 
levels.  Realtors indicated that home lis ting inventories cont inued to rise, but 
homebuilders conveyed that new home inventorie s declined compared with a year earlier 
as a result of very weak new home constr uction. Home prices w eakened somewhat in 
July and August and contacts noted mounti ng downward pressure on prices across the 
District. Contacts’ outlook for both new and existing home sales growth over the next 
several months was pessimistic.   
Nonresidential construction activity rema ined weak. Contractors noted that the 
pace of commercial development was belo w the year-earlier le vel and backlogs 
remained low. Vacancy rates were high acro ss the District and contacts continued to 
witness downward pressures on rents. Contr actors’ outlook for the rest of the year 
remained negative. 
Manufacturing and Transportation.  Manufacturing contacts reported that 
overall activity was expanding, but at a slower  pace than in the previous report. Fewer 
District manufacturers noted increases in new orders, and more said that orders were 
lower.  District trucking co mpanies reported improved revenues and a moderate pickup in 
freight volumes through August compared with a year ago.  However, railway companies 
described slower growth in motor vehicles, chemicals, and housing-related shipments.  
 Banking and Finance.  Uncertainty and conservative le nding continued to hamper 
loan activity across the District.  Businesse s cited difficulties receiving credit and many 
firms expressed little or no interest in appl ying for new loans because of low expectations 
for future sales or orders. Businesses also re ported refusing offers of credit because of 
unfavorable terms from banks. However, multiple contacts indicated an expansion of trade credit to create and extend lines of  credit outside of th e traditional banking 
infrastructure. Personal and business bankr uptcies increased across the District.  
 Employment and Prices.  Private payroll employment improved slightly in July, 
although many businesses continued to note a strong preference for increasing existing 
staff hours and using part-time or temporary st aff rather than hiring full-time employees. 
Contacts also reported that the pool and the qua lifications of appli cants have increased 
significantly. While the long-te rm impact of the oil spi ll on labor markets is still 
unknown, businesses along the Gulf co ast noted that, so far, j ob losses have been largely 
offset by hiring in clean-up and mitigation efforts. 
 VI-3 
District contacts reported increases in  commodity and transportation-related 
prices compared with a year ago. Most fi rms conveyed no plans to pass the increases on 
to consumers, opting instead to continue  to internalize cost  pressures through a 
combination of lower margins and increased efficiencies. 
Natural Resources and Agriculture.   Local oil production increased slightly and 
Gulf of Mexico crude inventories stayed near the top of their average range for this time 
of year. Contacts indicated that the impact on production from the oil spill were nominal.  
However, concern remains regarding the pot ential longer-term impact  of the deepwater 
drilling moratorium on the Gulf’s energy produc tion and the business impact of increased 
liability insurance costs for independent oil companies.   
Limited rainfall, coupled with hot temperatures, challenged crops and livestock in 
most District areas. Short topsoil moisture le vels were widely repor ted across the District. 
In addition, dry weather conditi ons have pushed some growers to an early harvest season.  
 
 
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  The pace of economic activity in the Se venth District moderated in July and 
August. Nonetheless, contacts remained cautiously optimistic that it would strengthen again as we 
near the end of the year. Ma nufacturing production growth sl owed and private construction 
decreased, while consumer spending increased a nd business spending continued at a steady pace. 
Credit conditions improved slightly. Price and wa ge pressures were limited, while agricultural 
prices moved higher. 
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending increased fr om the previous reporting period.  
Retail sales excluding autos were up in August influenced by st ate sales tax holidays and heavy 
discounting on back-to-school item s like clothing. Contacts note d that higher and lower-end 
retailers fared well, with middle-end retailers co ntinuing to see customer s trading down to lower 
priced alternatives. Auto sales ro se in July as increased incentive s spurred demand, but sales leveled 
off in August. Dealers continued to  report that inventories were lowe r than desired, particularly for 
the most popular Ford, GM, and Chrysler models. In addition, warmer weather in late summer 
boosted travel and tourism activity in the District. 
Business spending.  Business spending continued at a steady pace in July and August. 
Inventory rebuilding was less wide spread than earlier in the year, but was ongoing in several 
industries. Capital spending plans were largely unchanged, although merger and acquisition activity 
was reported to have picked up in manufacturi ng. The pace of hiring moderated, but manufacturing, 
information technology, and healthcare  were exceptions to this tre nd. Contacts indicated that firms 
were increasingly engaging in replacement hiring for entry-level positions as they promote from 
within to address mid-le vel turnover. Demand for temporary and contract labor, while a bit weaker 
than during the previous reporting period, remained strong. Several contacts also noted a mismatch 
between the skills of the large number of unemployed workers and the types of available jobs.  
Construction/real estate .  Construction activity decrea sed from the previous reporting 
period. Residential building remain ed minimal despite the fact that unsold inventory has fallen 
considerably in recent months. Both new and ex isting home sales declined, with foreclosed homes 
coming onto the market at a heightened pace. A c ontact noted that downward pressure on new home 
prices had likely bottomed out due to the fact th at builders were refraini ng from reducing prices 
below costs, as many had done earlier in the year. Refinancing activity picked up as mortgage rates 
moved lower, but contacts continued to report th at new mortgage credit remained tight for many 
 
 VII-2
borrowers. Private nonresidential construction wa s again constrained by elevated vacancies and 
declining commercial rents. C ontacts also noted, however, an  increase in inquiries and 
redevelopment projects of vacant commercial space. In contrast, publ ic construction increased with 
activity concentrated in transportation infras tructure and healthcar e-related projects.  
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing production growth slow ed from the previous reporting 
period. Contacts indicated it was diffi cult to gauge the extent of th e recent softening as July and 
August, in general, tend to be slower. In a posi tive sign, several metals manufacturers indicated that 
orders and inquiries had begun to firm in recent w eeks. Manufacturers of c onstruction materials and 
household goods reported declines in  shipments, with the exception of household appliances where 
inventory continued to be rebuilt in the aftermath of the recent rebate programs.  The transportation 
industry remained a source of growth with auto  and heavy truck production holding steady. Demand 
for heavy equipment increased considerably as rental companies rebuild inventories following 
greater than expected demand this past spri ng. Export activity was also  robust, with heavy 
machinery and autos leading the way. Demand from developing economies in Asia and South America continued to be strong, but contacts al so noted that demand from Europe had improved 
considerably in recent months. 
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions improved slightly  from the previous reporting period. 
Corporate credit spreads edged lower and busin ess loan demand was steady, driven mostly by 
refinancing and acquisition activit y. On the other hand, demand for liquidity remained high with 
greater uncertainty over the econom ic outlook, regulation, an d the political landscape restraining the 
supply of credit. Contacts indicated, however, th at demand for distressed commercial properties 
continued to be strong. Banking contacts again note d that fierce competition was leading to greater 
flexibility in pricing and terms and greater availabili ty of business loans. Consumer loan availability 
also increased, particularly for auto loans and cr edit cards. Bank loan qual ity continued to slowly 
improve, and lower loan loss provisions contributed to higher bank earnings.   
Prices/costs .  Price and wage pressures continued to  be small in July and August. Pricing 
power and pass-through of cost pressures to downs tream prices were limited. Commodity prices 
firmed, but only a few contacts repo rted significant increases in ma terial costs. Similar to the 
previous reporting period, wage  pressures increased only modes tly. However, several contacts 
expressed concern over the pros pect of rising healthcare costs in the coming year.  
Agriculture . Crop conditions were better than a year a go in much of the District. Corn and 
soybean crops continued to develop ahead of last y ear’s pace, setting the stage for an early autumn 
 
 VII-3
harvest. However, alternating periods of excess precipitation and intense heat sapped the potential 
for record yields in many areas, and the incide nce of diseased soybeans increased in Iowa. 
Preliminary yield reports were lo wer than anticipated, but the harv est was still expected to be a 
“good” one.  A rally in corn and soybean prices  during the reporting peri od prompted additional 
selling ahead of crop deliveries. Stocks were ade quate to meet demand, but some poor quality corn 
required blending before it could be sold. Revenues  in the livestock sector improved as dairy, hog, 
and cattle prices increased. In a ddition, a major recall of eggs pr oduced in Iowa lowered supplies.
 
 VIII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
The economy of the Eighth District has grown modestly since our previous report.  Economic 
activity in the manufacturing sector increased, on balan ce, as did activity in the services sector.  While 
retail sales reports were mixed, auto sales in July a nd early August increased over a year ago.  Residential 
real estate markets held steady and commercial real  estate activity remained slow.  Overall lending 
activity at a sample of large District banks was largely unchanged during the three-month period ending 
in July. 
Consumer Spending 
Retail sales reports from contacts in July and early  August were mixed.  Compared with a year 
ago, about 37 percent of the retailers saw incr eases in sales, while 42 percent saw decreases and 21 
percent saw no changes.  About 32 percent of the respondents noted that sales levels met their 
expectations, 47 percent reported that sales were belo w expectations, and 21 percent reported that sales 
were above expectations.  Higher-pri ced items continued to be weak sellers.  One third of the contacts 
noted that their inventories were too high, while 16 pe rcent reported that their inventories were too low.  
The sales outlook among the retailers for September and October was mostly optimistic.  About 56 
percent of the retailers expect sales to increase ove r 2009 levels, while 20 percent expect sales to decrease 
and 24 percent expect sales to be similar to last year. 
Car dealers in the District reported that, compared  with last year, sales in July and early August 
were up, on average.  About 44 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 32 
percent saw decreases and 24 percent saw no changes.  Ju st under half of the car dealers noted that used 
car sales had increased relative to new car sales, whil e 12 percent reported the opposite.  Also, 20 percent 
reported more acceptances of finance applications, but 12 percent reported more rejections.  A slight 
majority of the car dealers surveyed reported that  their inventories were too low, while 12 percent 
reported that their inventories were too high.  The sales outlook among the car dealers for September and 
October was generally optimistic.  A bout 56 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2009 
 
 VIII-2
levels, but 16 percent expect sales to decrease.  The re maining 28 percent expect sales to be similar to last 
year. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity has continued to increase si nce our previous report. Several manufacturers 
reported plans to open plants and expa nd operations in the near future, wh ile a smaller number of contacts 
reported plans to close plants and reduce operati ons.  Firms in the soap and cleaning compound, 
aerospace products and parts, glass products, motor vehicle parts, and primary metal manufacturing 
industries reported plans to open new facilities in the Di strict and hire employees.  Contacts in the food, 
engine, adhesive, and sanitary pape r products manufacturing industries reported plans to expand existing 
facilities and operations.  In contrast, firms in the furniture, hand tool, and power transmission equipment 
manufacturing industries announced plans to decrease operations and lay off workers. 
The District's services sector also has continued to  improve since our previous report.  Firms in 
the transportation, business support, telecommunica tions, and government services industries expanded 
existing operations and hired new employees.  Additionally, firms in the restaurant industry opened 
several new facilities.  In contrast, contacts in  the business support services and janitorial services 
industries reported plans to decrease operations and lay off workers. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales varied across the Eighth District.  Compared with the same period in 2009, July 2010 
year-to-date home sales were down 1 percent in St. L ouis and 1 percent in Memphis.  However, over the 
same period, sales increased 19 percent in Louisv ille and 5 percent in Little Rock.  Residential 
construction continued to improve in most of the Di strict.  July 2010 year-to-date single-family housing 
permits were up in the majority of the District me tro areas compared with the same period in 2009.  
Permits increased 17 percent in Little Rock, 18 percent in  St. Louis, and 23 percent in Memphis.  Permits, 
however, remained the same in Louisville. 
Demand conditions in commercial and industrial real  estate markets were mixed, while activity in 
the sector remained weak.  Compared with the first quarter of 2010, second-quarter 2010 industrial 
 
 VIII-3
vacancy rates decreased in St. Loui s but increased in Little Rock and Memphis; vacancy rates remained 
stable in Louisville over the same period.  The dow ntown office vacancy rate decreased in Little Rock, 
Louisville, and Memphis but increased in St. Louis.  During the same period, suburban office vacancy 
rates decreased in Little Rock and Memphis but increased  in Louisville and St. Louis.  A contact in south 
central Kentucky reported that comme rcial construction is steady but there are concerns that the pipeline 
for new projects is lean.  A commercial constructing contact in northeast Arkansas reported that projects 
are few and for the most part small, with some ac tivity in education-related projects.  A contact in 
St. Louis reported that construction of office and wa rehouse spaces has been limited.   In contrast, contacts 
in the northeast Mississippi region have reporte d significant industrial construction plans. 
Banking and Finance 
A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of  large District banks indicates little change in 
overall lending activity for the three-month period e nding in July.  Credit standards for commercial and 
industrial loans remained basically unchanged, while demand for these loans was about the same.  Credit 
standards for commercial real estate loans were al so basically unchanged, while demand for these loans 
varied slightly, ranging from moderately weaker to m oderately stronger.  Meanwhile, credit standards for 
consumer loans were basically unchanged, while de mand for these loans was mixed, ranging from weaker 
to moderately stronger.  Credit standards for reside ntial mortgage loans remained basically unchanged, 
while demand for these loans was moderately weaker. Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Generally, development of the District’s major crops remained ahead of its 5-year average pace.  
The overall condition of corn, soybeans, rice, cotton, and sorghum has deteriorated slightly since our 
previous report:  As of August 1, yields for most of the major crops in each District state were expected to 
be at least 94 percent of last year’s yields, althoug h yields for corn and soybeans in both Kentucky and 
Tennessee and winter wheat in Indiana were expected to  be 10 to 20 percent lower than last year.  Since 
our previous report, soil moisture ratings and pasture c onditions have deteriorated in most District states.
 
 IX-1
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy grew modestly since the last report. Consumer spending, 
tourism, residential construction, services , manufacturing, energy, mi ning and agriculture 
saw increases. Activity in the commercial and residential real estate sectors decreased, 
while commercial construction remained weak. Labor markets strength ened slightly since 
the last report.   Wage increases were moderate, a nd prices increased modestly.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism Retail spending increased moderately. A major Minneapolis-based retailer reported that 
same-store sales in July were up 2 percent co mpared with a year ea rlier, and a Minnesota-
based restaurant chain reported that recent sa les increased moderately compared with a 
year ago. July sales at two Minneapolis area  malls were above year-ago levels, and mall 
traffic seemed to hold steady during August. A retailer in Montana noted that sales for 
appliances and electronics were up about 10 percent compared with a year ago. In 
southwestern Montana, a furniture store repo rted that recent sales increased; however, 
sales at a lumber and home improvement re tailer were down. A chamber of commerce 
representative in northwestern Wisconsin noted that while re tail sales had been tracking 
downward compared with a year ago, there was a recent pickup due to solid tourism 
activity.  
 Vehicle sales were up slightly in North Dakota, according to a representative of 
an auto dealers association. The owner of a Minnesota domestic auto dealer said that 
August sales were up from a year ago, but co rporate customers were more cautious about 
purchases. 
Summer tourism activity was solid. Resort s in north-central Minnesota reported 
that lodging revenue was up a bout 10 percent on average co mpared with a year ago; 
restaurants also saw strong increases. Touris m activity was above year-earlier levels in 
North Dakota, according to an official. In we stern South Dakota, the number of visits and 
sales at attractions were on par with last year’s strong summer season. Visits to 
Yellowstone and Glacier national parks were higher than a year ago, but on average 
tourists were spending less. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction was slow. Few large projects were under way in the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Commercial permits  in Montana were at about half of their 
 
 IX-2
year-ago levels for both June and year-to-da te. Commercial buildi ng in Fargo, N.D., has 
recently slowed despite a relatively low une mployment rate in the area. Residential 
construction continued its mild recovery. Th e number and value of  August residential 
permits in Minneapolis-St. Paul increased fr om both July and June levels. The value of 
residential permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., was roughly flat in July from a year earlier. 
Activity in commercial real estate mark ets was down. A commercial brokerage in 
Minneapolis said that while unused space cont inued to increase, the rate of increase 
seemed to have slowed recently. Vacancy rate s there were at record highs; the retail 
sector was particularly hard hit. A bank dire ctor in Billings, Mont., said market activity 
there was down substantially and was expect ed to continue to drop. Recent residential 
real estate activity decreased from a year ea rlier. July closed sa les in Minneapolis-St. 
Paul were down 40 percent from a year earlie r; however, median sales prices were up 
more than 2 percent. Services 
Activity in the professional business services  sector increased si nce the last report. 
Contacts from the legal sector reported that billings during Ju ly were up from a year ago, 
especially for firms that deal with bankr uptcies. A call center is  expanding in South 
Dakota. Appraisers and other professional se rvices firms that support home refinancing 
reported strong activity over the past month. Manufacturing 
Manufacturing output was up since the last repo rt. A July survey of purchasing managers 
by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) s howed strong increases in manufacturing 
activity in Minnesota and South Dakota, and slight increases in North Dakota. A drainage 
pipe maker is opening a plant in South Da kota. In Minnesota, two new solar energy 
component manufacturing facili ties are planned. In the Uppe r Peninsula of Michigan, a 
coated paper company noted an increase in or ders over the past two months from earlier 
this year and last year. 
Energy and Mining Activity in the energy and mining sectors incr eased since the last report. Late-August oil 
exploration increased from mid-July. New wind energy projects are planned in the 
Dakotas. Most District mine s were operating at near cap acity. Iron ore production in 
Minnesota increased in July compared with June. Meanwhile, in the Upper Peninsula, a 
 
 IX-3
new copper mine was under construction. A ne w coal mine was under consideration in 
Montana. Exploration for a potash mine  was under way in North Dakota.  
Agriculture 
Agricultural activity increase d. Crop conditions improved across most of the District. The 
price of wheat surged since the last report. Sugar beet produce rs expected an early harvest 
with large yields, but were concerned about a judge’s ruling to halt the use of GMO seeds 
until the conclusion of an environmental im pact study. Meanwhile, the Minneapolis Fed’s 
second-quarter (July) survey of  agricultural credit conditions indicated that lenders expect 
overall agricultural income and capital spending to decrease in the third quarter.  
Employment, Wages and Prices  
Labor markets strengthened slightly since th e last report. After 25 straight months of 
year-over-year employment decreases in Mi nnesota and Wisconsin, both states recently 
posted modest year-over-year employment in creases. Initial claims for unemployment 
insurance in Minnesota were down 24 percent in July compared with July 2009, but were 
still higher than July 2008 levels. A tempor ary staffing firm in Minnesota noted that 
demand for industrial workers was even in Ju ly, but has picked up somewhat in August. 
  Despite recent strengthening, overall la bor market conditions remained weak. In 
Minnesota, a hospital recently announced plan s to eliminate up to 250 full-time positions 
by year-end. Two Minnesota state universiti es announced layoffs of almost 40 tenure-
track faculty in anti cipation of future funding cuts. Th ere were plenty of qualified 
applicants available to fill open positions in  Montana. In addition, fewer foreign workers 
were needed to fill seasonal jobs in Montana this past summer compared with a year ago.  
Wage increases were moderate. Average wages for manufacturing employees in 
District states for the three-month period e nded in July 2010 were only 1 percent higher 
than the same period a year ago. A nurses  union in Duluth, Minn., called for a one-day 
strike; staffing levels were the primary issue.  In Montana, a bank di rector noted that a 
number of employers were uncertain about their obligations under the new health care 
system and therefore were hesitant to make long-term commitments regarding benefits.   
Overall prices increased modestly. Minneso ta gasoline prices decreased slightly 
from mid-July through the end of August. Fert ilizer prices were lo wer than a year ago. 
Meanwhile, prices for copper and lead incr eased from mid-July through the end of 
August.
 
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
Growth in the Tenth District economy was mode st in late July and August.  Consumer 
spending increased slightly from the previous  period, and high-tech and transportation firms 
reported moderate growth.  Energy activity co ntinued to expand solid ly, and agricultural 
conditions improved with higher crop prices.  Manufacturing pr oduction was flat, and factory 
orders declined slightly.  The downturn in commercial real estate eased somewhat, while 
residential real estate markets weakened furthe r.  Bankers reported steady loan demand and an 
unchanged outlook for loan quality.  Business cont acts were moderately optimistic about future 
sales, but few planned to change employment or capital spending levels in the months ahead.  
Retail prices were largely unchanged from the pr evious survey, and wage pressures in most 
industries remained limited due  to soft labor markets. 
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending rose modestly from the previous survey, and 
contacts expected further growth in the months  ahead.  Retail sales edge d higher and were above 
year-ago levels at a majority of stores and ma lls.  Purchases of energy-saving appliances and 
clearance items were reported as strong at seve ral stores, while sales of luxury items such as 
jewelry and dining room sets were generally ch aracterized as weak.  Store inventories rose 
somewhat, but most contacts were satisfied with cu rrent stock levels.  Auto  sales also increased 
slightly from the previous period, and nearly all d ealers were optimistic about future sales.  Auto 
inventories continued to decline, and some d ealers were concerned about meeting expected 
demand as a result.  Restaurant sales rose soli dly from the previous period, and travel and 
tourism activity continued to improve.  Several resort contacts in Colorado anticipated a 
considerable rebound for the upcoming ski s eason, following weakness last winter.   
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.   Manufacturing activity slowed in late 
July and August, while other business activity c ontinued to expand.  Fact ory production was flat 
compared to previous months, while shipments and new orders weakened.  A producer of 
chemicals said distributors were only placing orde rs for product as needed and were unwilling to 
bring in inventory due to  high levels of economic uncertainty.  Growth in transportation services 
 
 
 X-2  
moderated slightly from previous  surveys but remained solid, and a major supplier of diesel fuel 
reported continued solid sales.  Most high-tech services firms re ported strong growth in sales, 
although a few contacts noted softened demand.  Bu siness firms’ expectations for future sales 
eased somewhat from the previous period but remained positive.  Capital spending plans for the 
rest of the year remained essentially flat, w ith most firms citing economic uncertainty as the 
primary reason. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activ ity dropped sharply in late 
July and August, but the downturn in commercia l real estate activity  lessened somewhat.  
Housing starts declined, with several build ers noting continued financing difficulties.  
Expectations for future homebuilding remained  weak, although one Colorado contact believed a 
floor seemed to be forming in that state.  Re sidential construction supp ly firms also reported a 
drop in sales.  Home sales plummeted from the previous survey, especially for higher-priced 
homes, and home inventories rose  across the District.  Real estate agents blamed the steep drop 
in home sales on expired tax credits and increased customer uncertainty, and most expected little 
improvement in the near future.  Mortgage lenders reported that overall mortgage demand 
improved slightly from last month, primarily due to  a continued rise in re financing loans.  The 
downturn in commercial real esta te stabilized somewhat in late July and August, but most 
contacts expected little improvement in coming m onths.  Vacancy rates and leasing activity were 
flat compared to the previous survey, while construc tion fell further.  Office prices and rents also 
continued to decline.  Many commercial real es tate contacts cited continued financing difficulties 
and high economic uncertainty among customers.  
Banking.  Bankers reported steady loan demand, stable deposits, and an unchanged 
outlook for loan quality.  Overall loan demand was little changed after ed ging up in the previous 
survey.  Demand was also stable in all major loan  categories.  As in previous surveys, a few 
banks tightened standards on thei r commercial real estate loans.  However, credit standards on 
other types of loans were unchanged.  Slightly more bankers reported an improvement in loan 
quality from one year ago than reported deterioration.  Also, for the third straight survey, 
respondents expected no change in loan quality over the next si x months.  Deposits were flat, 
 
 
 X-3  
continuing the pattern sin ce late last year.   
Energy.  Energy activity expanded further in late Ju ly and August.  Virtually all contacts 
reported an increase in drilling ac tivity, especially for oil, and were optimistic about the months 
ahead.  Crude oil prices remained relatively prof itable, and firms drilling for liquids in western 
Oklahoma were reported as opera ting at full capacity.  However,  several producers expressed 
concerns about low natural gas prices and potentially negative implications of proposed energy 
legislation.  Natural gas prices  eased in August, and most pr oducers did not expect sizable 
increases in prices until well into 2011, due to ample supply and average demand.   
 Agriculture.  Agricultural conditions improved since th e last survey period.  The winter 
wheat harvest finished with above average yields .  The majority of the corn and soybean crops 
were rated in good or better condi tion, though with isolated reports of heat stress, storm damage, 
and insect infestation.  Crop prices rose on pros pects of lower global gr ain supplies and Russia’s 
ban on grain exports, boosting farm income expectat ions.  Livestock prices generally held steady 
but higher feed costs narrowed profit margins.  Farmland values rose further on strong demand 
from farm and non-farm buyers and a limited suppl y of land for sale during the growing season.  
However, the prospect of higher capital gains ta xes in 2011 has prompted some farm owners to 
consider selling their farms before year-e nd.  Agricultural credit conditions generally  held steady.  
 Wages and Prices.  Consumer prices were generally unchanged from the previous 
survey, and wage pressures in most industr ies remained subdued.  Several manufacturers 
reported continued increases in materials prices , but only a few planned to raise finished goods 
prices.  Construction supply firms reported declin es in selling prices, which they generally 
expected to continue.  The downwar d trend in overall retail prices in recent surveys flattened out 
slightly, and most contacts expe cted steady prices heading forw ard.  Services firms reported no 
change in the prices charged to customers.  Wage pressures were still contained in most 
industries, with labor markets remaining soft.  However, some energy firms, auto dealers, and 
transportation firms reported a slight uptick in wage pressures due to difficulties finding 
qualified workers.  Longer-term hiring announcem ents continued to rise, but near-term hiring 
plans generally remained modest. 
XI-1 
 
  
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS   
 
Overview   The Eleventh District economy expanded m odestly over the past six weeks. The 
energy sector remained a source of strength, and agriculture, transportation services and staffing firms 
reported solid growth. Retailers said sales rose, but  the pace of growth was slower. Reports from the 
manufacturing sector were mixed, but overall suggest a slowdown. In particul ar, construction-related 
manufacturers said demand was very weak as housing demand has retrenched and private nonresidential 
activity is almost nonexistent. Most respondents exp ect economic conditions to remain positive, although 
many expect slower growth through year-end. Uncertainty was prevalent in most outlooks. 
Prices    Selling prices held steady at most responding firms. Retailers said prices were flat and 
airline fares stabilized after increases earlier in th e year. Contacts across industries said pricing was 
extremely competitive. There were, however, scattered reports of price increases in a few industries. 
Paper producers and aircraft manufacturers said they  were able to pass on increased input costs. 
Additionally, prices for some petrochemical products rose slightly. Some staffing firms were attempting 
to raise fees due to strong demand. Contacts in th e agricultural industry said commodity prices had moved 
up recently. Cotton prices are up nearly 50 percent over last year and cattle prices have risen strongly.  
Crude oil prices fell below $73 per barrel by late  August after a run up to $82 earlier in the 
month. The price of gasoline, diesel and heating o il fell during the reporting period, as inventories rose 
due to weak demand. Contacts said natural gas prices e dged down to just under $4 per Mcf by late August 
as the national heat-wave subsided.  
Labor Market    Employment levels were stable at most firms, and the overall labor market 
remained somewhat slack. Some contacts in the lumber and trailer manufacturing industries reported 
layoffs. On a more positive note, there were scattere d reports of hiring activity. Staffing firms cited 
continued increases in placement activity, and a few c ontacts in transportation services, legal services, 
automobile sales, and transportation manufacturing said they had added workers. Wage pressures were 
generally nonexistent, with exceptions found in th e airline industry and for some temporary workers. 
  Manufacturing   Most producers of construction-relate d materials—including brick, lumber, 
cement, glass and primary and fabricated metals— said conditions remained weak. Several respondents 
tied to housing constr uction said orders were especially low in July because of the vacuum created by the 
end of the tax credit. Contacts that produce products  used in nonresidential construction noted most 
activity was related to public projects. Outlooks were s lightly more pessimistic than in the last report, 
with several contacts expecting no turnaround until  2012. A primary metals producer that sells to 
transportation manufacturers was more upbeat and expects increased orders in coming months. 
XI-2 
 
 Manufacturers of high-tech products said demand held  steady over the past six weeks. Growth in 
orders has leveled off in recent months after a replen ishment of inventories earlier in the year that drove 
very strong growth. Most respondents characterize current order levels as good. Although inventories 
have increased, respondents said they are relatively l ean and in some cases below desired levels. Several 
semiconductor contacts said that industry-wide capacity  has fallen about 30 percent over the past three 
years and, even with growing capital expenditures, cap acity utilization is likely to remain very high for 
the next two to three years. Outlooks were positive for the remainder of the year.  
Paper manufacturers reported flat to declining sales over the past six weeks. Contacts said 
customers are very cautious about keeping inventorie s, due to pessimistic economic outlooks. Growth in 
demand for food products stalled since the last report. Respondents said they did not see the normal summer boost this year. 
Non-defense aircraft manufacturers said orders he ld steady over the past six weeks and are above 
year-ago levels. Outlooks were cautiously optim istic. Trailer producers said demand had fallen as 
uncertainty about the national economy increased. Sales are expected to be slow through year-end.  
Petrochemical producers were mostly optimis tic, noting domestic orders were strong and 
growing. Export growth was positive but slower, as current prices were less competitive in Europe and 
Asia. The only reported weakness was for vinyl produc ts used in housing and commercial construction. 
Refiners noted weaker conditions as seasonal gains in gasoline consumption did not materialize and 
distillate (diesel and heating oil) consumption s lipped back. Contacts expect a decline in capacity 
utilization rates and refining runs due to weaker margins.   
 Retail   Retailers noted that growth has slowed recently, but sales are up on a year-over-year 
basis. Customers continue to focus on non-discretio nary items while shunning big-ticket purchases.  
Eleventh District sales trended slightly above the nation over the reporting period, a change from the 
previous report. Outlooks suggest that while sales grow th may be slower for the remainder of the year; 
overall 2010 sales should show positive single-digit growth. 
Automobile demand held steady over the reporting period. Contacts said inventories are at 
appropriate levels and manufacturers are incremen tally increasing production. Expectations are for 
continued modest improvement.  
Services   Most staffing firms report that demand continues to grow at a solid pace, and is 
particularly strong for light industrial, sales, administrative, professional and technical workers. 
Placement activity continues to be mostly for contr act work as employers are still hesitant to hire 
permanent staff. Near-term outlooks are optimistic, but respondents are cautious about the longer term. 
Accounting firms note that while demand for tax-rela ted services has slowed seasonally and that for real 
estate and construction-related work remains nonexist ent, there has been a pickup in transactional and 
XI-3 
 
 consulting activity. Demand for legal services was la rgely unchanged during th e reporting period, with 
the exception of an uptick in corporate demand for mergers and acquisitions-related activity.   
Demand for transportation services remains positiv e. Railroad respondents noted a broad-based 
increase in cargo volumes, with shipments of grain pr oducts recording the largest increase. Shipping firms 
said small parcel cargo volumes rose, while large freight  shipments declined during the reporting period.  
Intermodal transportation firms reported a modest increase in  shipments. Airline traffic was flat to slightly 
down since the last report, but is stronger than a y ear ago. The outlook is for continued stability in air 
travel demand. 
Construction and Real Estate   Home sales continued to slide since the last report. Contacts 
noted demand was especially weak in the lower-price d segment of the market which had benefitted most 
from the homebuyer tax credits. Construction of ne w homes fell as large public builders scaled back. 
Outlooks are guarded for the rest of the year. Sales and construction are expected to remain weak, as the 
tax credit affected the timing of purchase decisions.   
Contacts in the office and industrial real estate sectors said leasing activity remained subdued.  
Investor interest in nonresidential properties remain s high however, and contacts say sales continue to 
edge up.  
Nonresidential construction remains weak. C ontacts reported a notable lack of private 
nonresidential projects. Public construction is the ma in source of activity for most contacts, but some 
expressed concern that such projects would subside due to budget constraints.  
Financial Services    Financial firms said loan demand continued to trail off. Business lending 
was especially weak, and contacts said businesses la cked confidence and were unwilling to make 
financial commitments. Deposit growth was strong, and credit quality on outstanding loans was stable. 
Several respondents reported concerns  over financial reform legislati on and other political uncertainties. 
Earnings projections are flat for 2011, and some  contacts were building up loan loss reserves in 
preparation for the coming year. 
Energy   Drilling activity in the Eleventh District rose since the last report. The Permian Basin in 
Texas led the increase, as activity continues to be directed to land-based oil. Drilling service companies 
noted solid demand and improved margins. Contacts not ed that the deep water drilling moratorium will 
impact revenues, but strong domestic land and in ternational activity is mitigating the impact.  
Agriculture   Hot, dry weather reduced soil moisture in most of the District, but drought 
conditions are minimal. Respondents said crop conditions  remain very strong, and yields for harvested 
crops are above average. A record cotton crop is expected for Texas this year. Demand for U.S. 
agricultural products has picked up in the wake of the devastating flood in Pakistan and drought in 
Russia, and most commodity prices have moved up as a result. 
XII - 1 
 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District a ppeared to expand modestly during the reporting 
period of mid-July through the end of August.  Upwa rd pressures on prices and wages were quite limited.  
Sales of retail items and services were mixed but grew  on balance.  District manufacturing activity firmed 
a bit further, with continued strength evident for manufacturers of information technology products.  
Agricultural producers reported robust sales, and de mand strengthened further for energy resources.  
Activity in District housing markets continued to slid e, while demand for commerc ial real estate remained 
weak.  Contacts from financial institutions reported slight declines in lending activity but further 
improvements in credit quality.  Wages and Prices 
 Upward price pressures remained very limited on net during the reporting period.  Commodity 
prices in general were largely stable, with the excep tion of rising grain prices and pronounced short-term 
volatility in oil prices.  Excess capacity and extensive competition continued to hold down final prices for 
most retail items and service categories.  The pr imary exception was health care, for which prices 
continued to rise.  Looking forward, contacts in general anticipate that prices for their products will 
change little over the balance of 2010.  Upward wage pressures were largely absent, as high unemployment and limited demand for new 
employees held down compensation gains in most re gions and sectors.  Contacts continued to report 
significant increases in the costs of employee benefits , most notably for health insurance.  Reports 
indicated that most businesses remain cautious in their approach to hiring and continue to rely on 
improved productivity rather than increased employment as a means to expand output. 
Retail Trade and Services 
  Retail sales were mixed.  Traditional department  stores and discount retail chains alike reported 
further sales increases for small household items, with ge nerally balanced inventories noted.  By contrast, 
sellers of major appliances and fu rniture reported a slowdown and “di fficult” conditions in July and 
XII - 2 
 August.  Grocers reported largely flat sales and not ed an ongoing shift towards less-expensive generic 
labels.  Sales of new domestic and imported autom obiles improved near the beginning of the reporting 
period but slowed subsequently.  Used vehicle sales improved marginally, while dealers faced a limited 
supply that kept inventories tight.  Demand for services improved modestly on balance but remained lackluster overall.  Demand for 
professional, media, and entertainment services was mixe d across sectors but appeared to be largely stable 
at low levels on net.  Providers of energy services re ported stronger demand for industrial use, with the 
exception of wood products.  Contacts from around the District noted increased business travel and 
tourism activity, as reflected in higher visitor volumes, hotel occupancy rates, and airline passenger miles, 
although visitor spending remained weak.  Provider s of health-care services reported that demand slipped 
somewhat, which they attributed in part to rising postponements or cancellations of elective procedures 
and routine tests by individual s who lack health insurance. 
Manufacturing 
  District manufacturing activity generally contin ued to grow during the reporting period of mid-
July through the end of August.  Demand strengthene d further for manufacturers of semiconductors and 
other technology products, with high levels of capacity utilization and ba lanced inventories noted.  While 
new orders remained limited for make rs of commercial aircraft and part s, extensive order backlogs kept 
production rates near capacity limits.  Activity at petroleum refineries rose in response to increased 
demand, although inventories remained at elevated le vels.  Food manufacturers reported further growth in 
sales.  By contrast, demand for wood products dete riorated, reportedly as a result of a slowdown in new 
home construction as well as residential repair and remodeling activity.  
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand remained strong for agricultural produc ts and improved further for natural resources 
used for energy production.  Orders and final sales continued to be robust for assorted crops and livestock 
products.  Contacts generally noted stable input co sts and supply conditions, although unseasonably cool 
weather in parts of California compressed the grow ing seasons for some crops.  Oil extraction activity 
XII - 3 
 expanded further as a result of recent increases in global demand, and strong demand for natural gas 
caused the number of rigs in service to rise. Real Estate and Construction 
 
 Housing demand in the District weakened some what from the previous reporting period, while 
demand for commercial real estate remained largely st able at depressed levels.  The pace of home sales 
continued to be mixed across areas but fell on bala nce, and contacts noted that the slowdown in home 
sales has placed renewed downward pressure on new hom e construction.  Despite sluggish sales activity, 
home prices edged up further in some parts of the Di strict.  Demand for commercial real estate remained 
at very low levels, as reflected in elevated vacan cy rates and subdued leasing activity for office and 
industrial space in many parts of the District.  Howe ver, one contact reported further increases in the sales 
prices of selected commercial properties in some areas.  
Financial Institutions 
 District banking contacts reported that loan  demand slipped somewhat.  Commercial and 
industrial loan volumes waned a bit, reportedly restrained by businesses’ cautious attitudes towards 
capital spending stemming from their uncertainty abou t the future economic environment.  While a 
majority of respondents across all industries indicated  that they anticipate no change in the pace of 
economic growth in their respective industry or area in the second half of the year compared with the 
first, most of those who do expect a change for esee a slowdown as opposed to a pickup.  Consumer loan 
demand also remained weak overall.  By contrast, vent ure capital financing continued to be a bright spot, 
with contacts noting increased levels of funding, as we ll has heightened IPO activity.  Although contacts 
noted slight improvements in overall credit quality, le nding standards stayed relatively restrictive for 
business and consumer lending.   
 
 