For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
Wednesd ay 
July 16,  2014 
 
 
 
  
Summary of Comme ntary on    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current 
Economic  
Condi tions 
 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
July 2014  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
SUMMARY O F COMMENTARY ON CURR ENT ECONO MIC CONDI TIONS 
BY FEDERAL  RESERVE  DISTRICT S 
 
July 2014  
TABLE OF  CONTENTS  
SUMMA RY...……………………………………..……..i 
First Dist rict – Boston…………………………...…..…I-1 
Second Distric t – Ne w York…………………...……...II-1 
Third Dist rict – Philade lphia……………………...….. III-1 
Four th Distric t – Cleveland………………...…….…...IV-1 
Fifth Distric t – Richmond……………………...……....V-1 
Sixth Distric t – Atl anta……………………...…….…..VI-1 
Seventh Distric t – Chi cago…………………...….…...VII-1 
Eigh th District  – St. Louis…………………..….....…VI II-1 
Ninth Distric t – Minneapolis……………………….….IX-1 
Tenth Distric t – Kansas City…………………………....X-1 
Eleventh Distric t – Da llas……………………………...XI-1 
Twelfth Distric t – San Franc isco……………………...XII-1 
i 
 
SUMMARY* 
 
All twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic activity continued to expand 
since the previous report. The pace of economic growth was characterized as moderate in New 
York, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas , and San Francisco, while the remaining Districts reported 
modest expansion. Compared to the previous reporting period, Boston and Richmond noted a slightly slower pace of growth. Most Districts were optimistic about the outlook for growth.  
Overall consume r spending increased in every District. Retail sales grew modestly in 
most Districts, with increases that were generally similar to the previous reporting period. 
Vehicle sales remained stronger than non -auto retail sales, with Philadelphia, Richmond, Atla nta, 
and San Francisco indicating robust  to very strong auto sales. Tourism activity expanded in all 
reporting Districts , with growth ranging from slight in Philadelphia to very strong in Boston. 
Hotel contacts described  robust  activity  in the Boston, New York, Atlanta , and Minneapolis 
Districts, while Philadelphia and Richmond noted activity levels that were in line with seasonal 
norms . 
Activity in the nonfinancial service s sector continued to grow across all Districts at a 
modest to moderate pace. Many Di stricts reported positive growth for professional  and business 
services , including  healthcare consulting, advertising, engineering, ac counting, and technology. 
Overall , transportation activity rose at a moderate pace since the previous survey period. Broad-
based demand for trucking and rail services across the Districts increased,  and the Richmond 
District reported strong  growth in port container traffic , with increases in both imports and 
exports. Manufacturing activity expanded  in all twelve D istricts . Contacts in the metal and  auto 
industries generally reported positive growth , while  manufacturers in  the Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago Districts reported increas ed demand for their products from 
the energy sector.  
Reports on real estate activity varied across the Districts . Many Districts reported low 
inventories and increasing home prices , but demand was  mixed. Boston, New York, and 
St. Louis reported home sales were below year -ago levels, while Chicago noted a decrease in 
home sales since the  last survey period. Home sales in other Districts remained steady or 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and based on information collected before July 7, 2014. This 
document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal  Reserve and is not 
a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.                                                             
ii 
 
increased.  Multi- family sales and leasing activity were robust in the New York and Dallas 
Districts. Residential construction rose  for single -family homes  in the Cleveland, Chicago, 
Kansas City, and San Francisco  Districts,  while  New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, and San Francisco  reported increases for multifamily construction.  Commercial 
construction activity generally strengthened  across the  Districts , due to higher  demand and low  
vacancy rates.  
Loan volumes rose across the nation, with slight to moderate increases reported in most 
Districts. Credit quality remained stable or improved slightly in most Districts, while San 
Francisco noted a slight decline. Credi t standards were generally unchanged, although Richmond 
noted an easing of cost terms for well -qualified  commercial and industrial borrowers , and 
Philadelphia and Chicago mentioned that competitive pressures were leading some financial 
institutions to take  on higher credit risks.   
Among Districts reporting on agriculture, heavy rains improved soil moisture levels in 
the Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City , and Dallas  Districts , while drought conditions 
persisted in San Francisco. Most fall crops wer e reported in good or better condition, and 
expectations of higher production lowered crop prices. Profitability improved for livestock 
operators in the Atlanta, Minneapolis , and Kansas City Districts due to high cattle and hog 
prices. Oil production expanded in the Minneapolis, Kansas City , and Dallas Districts, while 
natural gas and coal production remained relatively steady in reporting Districts.  
Labor market conditions improved, as all twelve Districts reported slight to moderate 
employment growth . Several Districts continued to report some difficulty finding workers for 
skilled positions. Aside from higher wages to attract talent for these skilled positions, wage pressures remained modest in most Districts. Price pressures were generally contained , with most 
Districts reporting slight to modest price increases for both inputs and finished goods. Several Districts noted  higher prices for meat, dairy  products , construction materials , and some metals  
(namely steel, copper, and nickel) . 
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
Consumer spending continued to increase at a moderate pace since the previous report, 
with generally modest growth among non -auto retailers and  moderate to strong  growth in vehicle 
sales and tourism activity. Most Districts reported modest retail sales growth since the last report, 
iii 
with slightly slower sales growth in the Boston and Atlanta Districts and faster sales growth in 
the New York, Dallas , and San Francisco Districts. Although wet weather continued to restrain 
sales in the Chicago D istrict, New York noted an increase in sales due to pent-up demand as the 
negative effects from earlier adverse weather abated. Several Districts mentioned that higher 
meat prices were affecting consumer behavior. New York, Cleveland, and Chicago also reported 
higher levels of promotions or discounting. Sales were particularly strong for shoes and children’s apparel in the Philadelphia District, furniture in the Atlanta  District, home 
improvement and building materials in the St. Louis and Kansas City Distr icts, and low- end and 
mid-range technology goods in the San Francisco  District. Contacts in the Philadelphia and 
Cleveland Districts reported higher planned capital expenditures for retail space. 
Vehicle sales expanded in most Districts in the latest reporting period, and auto contacts 
were optimistic about auto sales in the months ahead. Most Districts reported that sales were 
above year -ago levels, with Dallas noting a return to pre- recession sales levels. Philadelphia, 
Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco reported robust or very strong auto sales growth, while most other Districts noted a more moderate pace of growth. Cleveland, Richmond, and San 
Francisco reported some softening in used car sales, while new car sales were stronger  than used 
sales . Richmond mentioned that recent vehicle recalls were weighing on used car sales, while 
Chicago noted increased activity in service and parts departments due to recalls. SUVs sold 
particularly well in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts.  
Tourism activity increased across all reporting Districts, and most Districts’ contacts 
were optimistic about future activity levels. Boston, New York, and Kansas City reported strong 
tourism activity, while Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported moderate tourism  
growth. Hotel occupancy rates were high in the Boston, New York, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts. Tourism activity rose  slightly in  the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts, with levels 
that were in line with seasonal norms. Philadelphia and Richmond also mentioned that many  
tourists were budget conscious. Dallas noted gains  in domestic travel, but weaker demand from 
foreign travelers.  
Nonfinancial Services  
Nonfinancial services activity continued to strengthen since the previous survey period, 
with all Districts reporting steady or improving growth. Many Districts reported positive growth 
within the professional and business services  sector. Specifically, Boston noted an increase in 
iv 
demand for consulting services ( especially for healthcare) and advertis ing; Richmond indicated  a 
rise in demand for accounting services;  Minneapolis mentioned gains in engineering and 
architecture services;  and San Francisco noted an increase in technology services . San Francisco 
continued to report  a decline in activity in the food services industry. Conditions in the staffing 
services industry across the Districts were unchanged or improved modestly compared with the 
previous survey period.  
Transportation activity grew at a moderate pace in the mo st recent survey period. 
Minneapolis and Dallas reported high demand for rail services ; in particular, Minneapolis 
mentioned increased volumes for grain, crushed stone, lumber, and wood, although rail 
shipments for petroleum, primary forest materials , and nonmetallic minerals decreased. Contacts 
in the Cleveland  District reported strong and broad- based trucking activity , with shipments of 
construction and fracking- related materials particularly strong . Contacts in the Richmond District 
noted an increase in demand for freight trucking related to home improvement stores increasing inventor ies in advance of the Fourth of July holiday weekend. Port officials in the Richmond 
District saw robust growth in container traffic, led by exports of forest products, grains, 
soybeans, and auto parts, and import s of auto parts, apparel, and textiles. However, these 
contacts also noted that imports of housing-related products, such as furniture and appliances, had decelerated . 
Manufacturing  
Manufacturing activity expand ed further in all twelve Districts since the previous survey 
period, with growth occurring across many subsectors. M anufacturing activity in the New York, 
Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco  Districts  grew  at a robust pace, while  the 
manufactu ring sector s in the Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
and Dallas Districts increased  at a more modest pace.  Compared with the previous report, the 
pace of growth slowed slightly in the Boston, St. Louis, and Kansas City Dis tricts, and increased 
in the Richmond District. Contacts in the Chicago, St.  Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San 
Francisco  Districts reported generally positive activity within the metals sector. Philadelphia and 
Chicago noted improved growth in  the aerospace industry since the previous survey period. 
Manufacturing in the auto industry generally  strengthened, with  Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Chicago , St. Louis, and San Francisco report ing increased  activity ; however, 
Minneapolis noted a moderat ion in the auto industry’s demand for certain inputs.  Manufacturers 
v 
 
supporting the energy sector in the Midw est and Northern Appalachia reported stronger sales, 
specifically for metal -piping related products. P roduction of construction inputs was  mixed, a s 
Kansas City and San Francisco reported a decrease in production and Philadelphia , Chicago , and 
Dallas  reported a slight increase. Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas were 
optimistic about  the near -term outlook for overall manufacturing activity.  
Real Estate and Construction  
Residential real estate activity continued to vary by Federal Reserve District , reflecting 
generally low  inventor ies and  mixed level s of demand. Specifically, Boston, New York, Atlanta, 
Kansas City, and Dallas  noted that residential home sales were constrained by low or dwindling 
inventories. Nevertheless, d espite decreasing inventories, residential home sales in the Atlanta 
and Kansas City Districts rose at a slight to  modest  pace. Philadelphia, Cleveland , and Richmond 
also noted a slight  to modest  increase in sales  since the previous survey period, while San 
Francisco reported that home sales in the recent reporting period were below year -ago levels .  
Boston, New York,  Chicago , and St. Louis indicated that residential sales activity  softened , with 
Chicago attribut ing some of this decline to an increase in prices. Home prices continued to rise  
across most of the Districts, especially within urban areas, but contacts in t he San Francisco  
District noted a slight ly slower pace of home price appreciation . New York and Dallas reported 
robust activity in multifamily sales and leasing.  
Residential construction activity generally increased  across the Districts, with only St. 
Louis and Minneapolis reporting a decline in overall activity. Chicago and San Francisco 
reported increased construction of high -end urban single -family homes, and Cleveland and 
Kansas City continue d to see growth in low - to medium -priced single -family  construction. 
Cleveland and San Francisco reported that a shortage of vacant lots was holding back further 
growth in both single -family  and multifamily construction ; however , growth remained positive. 
New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and  San Francisco noted that multifamily 
construction activity increased  since the previous survey period. Contacts in the Cleveland 
District reported that they were seeing greater willingness to finance multifamily projects.   
Commercial construction activity  strengthened ac ross most  Districts . Cleveland and 
Atlanta reported increased commercial construction activity compared to a year ago, and 
Philadelphia, Chicago,  St. Louis , Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted 
gains since the  previous survey period. Boston and Richmond saw mixed  commercial 
vi 
 
construction activity  across their Districts since the previous report . Dallas indicated  strong 
overall commercial real estate construction activity , and commercial real estate construction 
increased in the Minneapolis  District compared with the previous report . Boston, New York, 
Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas reported tight commercial vacancy rates . Industrial 
real estate construction and leasing  activity was strong in the  Philadelphia  and Chicago Districts.   
Banking and Financial Services  
Overall, banking conditions improved slightly from the previous reporting period. Nearly 
all reporting Districts indicated increasing loan volumes. Loan demand was strongest in the New 
York, Chicago, and Dallas  Districts , where loan volumes rose moderately compared with  the 
previous report. Loan volumes increased modest ly in the Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis , and San 
Francisco  Districts , while Philadelphia and Cleveland noted a sl ight uptick . Commercia l and  
industrial lending increased in the  New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and 
St. Louis  Districts . However, commercial and  industrial lending decr eased slightly in the Kansas 
City District. Commercial real estate lending exhibited slight to moderate growth in  the New 
York, Chicago, Dall as, and San Francisco  Districts . Growth in r esidential real estate loan 
volumes  was mixed across the System. New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis , and Dallas  reported 
growth, while Richmond, Atlanta, and Ka nsas City  indicated slight decline s in demand. 
Consumer lending increased in the New Yor k, Philadelphia and St. Louis  Districts , and 
construction lending expanded  in the New York, Philadelphia , and San Francisco  Districts . Most 
Districts cited stable or slight improvement in credit quality, while Dallas and New York 
reported moderate and strong improvement , respectively.  San Francisco was the only District 
with a reported decline in credit quality. Bankers in the  New York and Atlanta  Districts  reported 
decreases in delinquency rates for all loan categories , with rates reaching  pre-recession levels in 
the Atlanta  District.    
Credit standards remained generally unchanged in most Districts . Contacts in the 
Philadelphia  District  expressed a growing concern for loans with risky terms as a result of strong 
competition among banks to secure new loans. In addition, banking contacts in the Chicago  
District cited competitive pressure on structure and pricing for traditional and lever aged business 
lending, particularly from nonbank financial institutions  willing to take on higher credit risk . 
Though Richmond indicated an easing of cost terms  for well -qualified  commercial and  industrial 
borrowers, credit standards  for mortgage lending w ere described as strict.  
vii 
 
Deposit volumes picked up in  the Cleveland, Kansas City , and Dallas  Districts , but 
declined in the St. Louis  District. New York indicated declining spreads between loan rates and 
cost of funds, particularly for commercial mortgages. Bank contacts in the  Philadelphia  District 
reported growing confidence among both businesses and consumers , but also indicated that 
businesses continue d to be cautious  regarding most decisions.    
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
Growing condi tions varied with precipitation levels. Heavy rains improved soil moisture 
levels in the Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts , though there were 
isolated reports of hail and flood damage. However, recent rains were too late to aid the 
development of the winter wheat crop and actually delayed the harvest  in the Kansas City and 
Dallas Districts , leading to expectations for below -average yields . Persistent drought in the San 
Francisco District led some producers to curb new planting  to conserve water for permanent 
crops. Despite late planting in many areas, most fall crops were reported in good or better 
condition, and expectations of strong production this year lowered crop prices. High cattle and 
hog prices , reflecting supply const raints and strong  export demand, improved profitability for 
livestock operators in the Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City , and Dallas Districts. Higher milk 
prices and low feed costs relative to last year also strengthened profit margins for dairy operators  
in the Minneapolis and San Francisco Districts . The Chicago District reported declines in milk 
and cattle prices compared with the previous survey period, though prices remained well above 
levels necessary to cover production  costs .   
Oil production drove  growth  in the energy sector , while natural gas and coal production 
generally held steady. Strong summer demand was expected to support elevated oil prices. Oil 
production expanded in the Minneapolis, Kansas City , and Dallas Districts , and crude oil 
invent ories rose at Gulf Coast refineries in the Atlanta District. Natural gas production in the 
Richmond and Kansas City Districts remained relatively steady. Some contacts in the Kansas 
City District planned to increase capital spending, and also noted a rise in drilling costs due to 
advances in technology . Coal production in the Cleveland, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts , as 
well as iron ore output in the Minneapolis District , was little changed .    
Employment, Wages , and Prices  
Labor market conditions cont inued to improve since the previous report, with all Districts 
reporting slight to moderate employment growth. Employers in  the Philadelphia  District 
viii 
 
remained cautious, and reported hiring for replacement and some incremental growth. 
Philadelphia and Atlanta reported more hiring fo r permanent positions since the last reporting 
period. Employers in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas  Districts reported difficulty finding workers for some skilled positions. In pa rticular, a 
shortage of truck drivers was noted in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta and Kansas City Districts , and s killed construction and craft workers were reportedly in short supply in the 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City and Dallas  Districts . Cleveland and Dallas 
also noted that labor markets were tight in energy -producing areas.  
Most Districts noted that wage pressures remained modest outside of some skilled 
positions. New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta reporte d stable to slightly 
increasing wage pressures ; in addition, Chicago indicated that wage pressures increased (though 
primarily for skilled workers). St. Louis , Minneapolis , and Kansas  City  reported modest wage 
pressures. Wage pressures in the Dallas and San Francisco  Districts  were moderately higher than 
in other parts of the country. Dallas noted that the strongest wage pressures within its D istrict 
were in the energy and construction sectors , but reported modest upward pressure in other 
industries as well. San Francisco mentioned some upward wage pressure from rising minimum wages, and some contacts in the San Francisco District noted an increasing need to offer higher 
starting salaries to attract talent from competitors.  
Price pressures were generally con tained , with most Districts reporting slight to modest 
price increases for both inputs and finished goods. New  York and Chicago reported upward 
pressure on costs; Richmond and  Kansas  City reported that prices of raw materials and finished 
goods rose at a s lightly slower pace. Several Districts noted higher prices for meat, dairy  
products , construction materials, fuel , and some metals ( namely steel, copper , and nickel). 
Contacts in the Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas , and San  Francisco  Districts 
reported success in passing on higher input costs to customers  in some instances . 
 
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON  
Reports on recent business performance in the First District display considerable variation  both 
across and within sectors , but point to slow economic growth overall . Contacts in the retail sector report 
either  slight  declines in sa les or modest increases . Tourism is enjoying very strong gr owth , while 
manufacturers report mixed  results . Consulting contacts repor t moderate to strong growth, while 
commercial real estate reports are mixed across locations and sectors . Relative to a year  ago, s ales of 
single -family homes fell in May in four New England states , but contacts also report rising med ian home 
prices  in two of these states . Output p rices are mostly stable in the manufacturing sector, although some 
firms recently raised their pri ces, and in the consulting  sector  some large firms are  enacting fee increases 
to cover rising wage and benefit costs.  While  manufacturers report  no commodity price pressures, some 
retail contacts note p rice increases for some inputs. Some firms in the Dist rict are engaged in significant 
hiring and others are doing little to no hiring, largely in line with business per formance . Barring  
pessimism among a few contacts  and selected mention of downside risks, most contacts are at least 
cautiously optimistic abou t their near-term growth prospects , and responden ts in the tourism, 
biotechnology, and h ealthcare consulting industries all  describe the outlook as highly favorable.  
Retail  and Tourism  
Retail contacts report year -over-year same -store sales  growth ranging from small single -digit 
decreases to low single -digit i ncreases.  Some contacts report  that consumers are still cautious, while 
others say that consumers seem  more confident. Some indicate  that vendor prices and input costs remain 
steady, while others repor t cost increases for paper product s and for fuel and freight . Depending on the 
retailer, the outlook for their own business and for the U.S. economy ranges fro m “challengi ng” to 
“steady” to “improving.”  The already -strong tourism sector continues to see ve ry robust  growth. Boston -
area hotel  revenue s were up 13.2 percent in May  from a year ago . Attendance at museums and other 
attractions is up 8.5 percent year -over-year for May . Tourism -related revenues for t he 2014 summer 
season are projected to be 6 percen t to 7 percent higher than in 2013, which was itself a record year.  
Manufacturing and Related Services  
Of the nine  manufacturing firms contact ed in this cycle, only  two report  year-over-year declin es 
in revenues . A maker of frozen fish products reports tha t demand is down  becau se fish is expensive and 
also because competitors are underpricing them. A magazine publisher that  relies heavily on advertising 
revenues reports that ad revenue s have fallen  10 percent per year for  a number of  years because of the 
shift to digital media. Of the firms reporting revenue increases  from a year ago , two had very slow 
growth. One of these, in the chemical industry, reports that its net revenue growth figure conceals wide 
 
I - 2 
variation across different product lines, including a  year-over-year revenue decline of 9 percent for its 
largest line and an increase of 12 percent for its second -largest line. Across contacts, the first quarter’ s 
harsh winter  had no lasting eff ects on inventories, which reportedl y stand  at moderate levels.  Seven 
contacts report that they are making new hires, with headcounts increasing in line with individual firms’ 
sales growth. A biotech firm plans to  hire 1 ,000 workers this year, while  a manufacturer serving the 
automobile  and aerospace industries report s hiring mostly to replace departing staff.  Firms report  mostly 
stable pricing. Two contacts, both se lling industrial parts, recently succeeded in putting price  increases 
through to customers. U nlike in many previous reports,  no contacts report  having prob lems with 
commodity prices or supplies. All contacts reporting on investment activity indicate that investment is up 
over last year , although none of these contacts mention having revised their investment plans recently.  
With the exception of the  magazine  publisher , contacts have a positive outlook for the remainder of 2014, 
and t he biotech firm contact is more optimistic than are contacts in such industries as bulk chemicals and 
automotive springs.  
Selected Business Services  
Demand for analysis, consulti ng, and advertising is up across the board , as most contacts perceive 
that the economy is resurgent . Healthcare consult ing firms led with 5 percent to 10 percent  revenue 
growth  over a year ago . Economic analysis and government consulting firms report year-over-year 
revenue growth  in the range of 1  percent  to 4 percent . Advertising firms also report strong demand. 
According to contacts, w ages at business services  firms are up 2 percent t o 5 percent  over last year , while 
benefits  increased at a slightly highe r pace. Larger firms  report little trouble  passing compensation  
increases  on to clients, but smaller firms see margins being squeezed amid fierce competition , coupled 
with rising wage and energy costs and perceived consumer reluctance to accept higher pric es. Healthcare 
consulting firms and a few large analysis firms plan to increase employment by 5 percent to 10 percent  
this year. Government  consulting  and smaller strategy firms report flat headcounts and no plans to hire 
moving forward. Firms in consultin g and advertising report that a tight market for their targeted hires  
pushed starting salaries up 5  percent  to 10 percent over last year.  Revenue g rowth predictions display a 
broad range, including negative values and a value of 10 percent, although all firms expect growth to 
improve  moving forward . Healthcare consultants are especially optimistic in light of demand stemming 
from clients’  need to comply with the Affordable Care Act . At the same time, g overnment  and healthcare 
consulting fi rms cite pending U .S. fiscal and regulatory policy decisions as key risk factors  for clients .  
Commercial Real Estate  
Reports from commercial real estate contact s across the First D istrict are mixed. Leasing  activity  
is down in Hartford  in recent weeks , a fact attributed in  part to usual seasonal patte rns and in part to weak  
 
I - 3 
fundamentals. Office l easing activity  is also down in  Providence, while at the same time Rhode Island’s 
industrial leasing market is tightening amid strong demand and limited inventory. According to a Po rtland 
contact, the city’s tourism industry is booming, and three recently -opened hotels enjoy high occupancy 
rates. Also in Portland, strong office leasing  is driven by growth of existing firms rather than by new 
firms,  and investment demand is strong acr oss industrial, multifamily,  and medical  properties . In Boston, 
office rents continue to display  a modest upward trend, thanks to a lack of new inventory coming to 
market. A limited amount of speculative office construction is underway in Boston’s Seaport District, but 
contacts for esee constraints on similar construction in the form of high costs and limited financing. A 
regional lender to commercial real estate saw a surge in loan volume in recent weeks, a fact the contact 
attributes  to changes  in business  strategy. According to contacts, hiring in both Portland and Har tford —
and hence added office demand —is held back by a scarcity of y oung, educated workers in these cities . 
Contacts expect that Boston will continue to see at least modest improvement in comm ercial real estate 
fundamentals moving forward, while contacts in Providence and Hartford point to uncertainty 
surrounding the outcomes of  upcoming elections in their respective states as a factor that could restrain 
economic growth in the near -term. A Por tland contact’s outlook remains bullish.  
Residential Real Estate  
Realtors report steady foot traffic at open houses  and m ultiple contacts insist  that demand remains 
strong despite  year-over-year declines in sales in May in four of five reporting states: Connecticut, 
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Vermont. In Maine, sal es rose over the same period.  To help explain 
the falling sales, r ealtors cite inventory shortages,  perceived  lack of job security, and economic 
uncertainty. Lack of i nventory continues to hamper sales in Massachusetts , where listings have fallen on a 
year-over-year basis for 27 consecutive months. At the same time, c ontacts in  that state report seeing 
increases in new listings in selected  areas . Despite declining sales, the median sales pri ce of single -family 
homes  in May continue d to rise  on a year -over-year basis  in Rhode Island and Massachusetts. For the 
same period, median sales prices were flat in Connecticut and down  in both Maine and Vermont . 
Condominium sales in May are down relative  to a year ago in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode 
Island, while Vermont contacts report increased condo sales over the same period. The median sales price  
for condos in May increased  from a year ago in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Vermont ; by contrast, 
the median condo sales price fell i n Rhode Island over the same period. Looking forward, contacts in both 
Maine and Connecticut  note that they are busy  with pending deals, while pending sales figures for June 
are below year -earlier levels in M assachu setts, Vermont,  and even Connecticut . Nonetheless, r ealtors 
across the region are hopeful that closed sales numbers for June will show improvement  from a year ago . 
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT --NEW YORK  
Economic growth in the Second District has continued at a moderate pace  since the last 
report.  Prices of finished goods and services continue to be stable, and businesses report moderate 
upward pressure on input prices.  Manufacturers report a further acceleration in business activity, 
while service sector firms report steady, moderate growth.  Labor market conditions continue to 
improve : manufacturers indicate that they have stepped up hiring activity since the last report, while 
service-sector firms continue to expand staff at a moderate pace.  Both general merchandise reta ilers 
and auto dealers report that sales were quite robust in May but pulled back somewhat in June.  
Tourism activity has been increasing ly brisk since the last report.  H ousing markets showed signs of 
leveling  off, while c ommercial real estate markets str engthened slightly .  Finally, banks report 
increased loan demand— particularly on commercial mortgages —little change in credit standards, 
and increasingly widespread declines in delinquency rates  across all segments .   
Consumer Spending  
General merchandise r etailers say that sales were robust and generally ahead of plan in May  
but mixed in June .  While retail contacts in upstate New York note  that sales were steady to stronger 
in June, two major retail chains  and a number of other contacts  note that business  pulled back in 
June.  Retailers generally  attribute the strong sales in May to pent -up demand, after a long spell of 
unseasonably cool and wet weather; one major chain characterizes the pullback in June as a return to more normal levels.  Retail contacts generally portray inventories as being  in good shape.  P rices are 
mostly steady, though one contact describes the pricing environment as a bit more promotional than a year ago.   
Auto dealers in both the Rochester and Buffalo areas  report that new vehicle sales increased 
strongly in May  and were well ahead of comparable 2013 levels , but note signs of slowing in June.  
Auto dealers note that both w holesale and retail credit conditions remain in good shape , and they 
express optimism a bout the near-term outlook for sales.   
 
 II-2 
Tourism activity  has generally been increasingly robust  since the last report .  With more 
Broadway shows running through the early summer than in a number of years, revenues and 
especially attendance at Broadway theaters strengthened further in late May and June.  Manhattan  
hotels saw exceptionally brisk business in May: revenue was up nearly 7 percent from a year earlier, 
and the occupancy rate reached a reco rd high of 94 percent.  Hotel occupancy rates also strengthened 
in the Albany area in May, but softened slightly in the Buffalo-Niagara Falls area. Consumer 
confidence in the region was mixed in June .  The Conference Board reported a pullback in the 
Middle Atlantic region (NY, NJ, PA), whereas Siena College’s June  survey of New York residents 
shows confidence increasing for the third straight month.  
Construction and Real Estate  
The District’s housing market s have been generally stable since the last report .  Across both 
New York and New Jersey, existing home sales were down nearly 10 percent from a year ago in 
May, as the number of homes on the market declined; prices were reported to be flat to up slightly .  
Contacts in the Buffalo-Niagara region indicate that  housing demand remains brisk, but that sales 
activity continues to be constrained by a  dearth  of available homes .  One industry contact in New 
Jersey notes that the inventory of available new and existing homes remains low , as a large number 
of distressed  properties remain off the market.  
New York City’s co-op and condo market remains robust, with prices up moderately from a 
year ago in Manhattan and Brooklyn.  Sales volume was up moderately from a year ago in 
Manhattan and up briskly in Brooklyn.  In Que ens, both prices and sales volume retreated from high 
levels, reflecting a pullback in new development, which was quite robust in 2013.  The inventory of 
available homes move d up in Manhattan but remains quite  low; one contact remarks  that some of the 
apartments recently being put up for sale are priced unrealistically.  Inventory levels in Brooklyn 
remain exceptionally low.  Apartment r ental markets appear to have leveled off, as  rents in Brooklyn 
 
 II-3 
and Manhattan have been flat  in recen t months.  A contact in northern New Jersey notes that mul ti-
family construction has increased strongly, while single -family construction has remained subdued.   
Commercial real estate market s were mixed but, on balance, somewhat stronger in the second 
quarter.  Office availability rates fell to multi-year lows in New York City and Long Island, but rose 
to multi-year highs in the Rochester and Buffalo areas; rates were little changed at high levels (near 
20 percent) in northern New Jersey and Westchester & Fairfield counties.  Asking rents for office 
space were flat across most of the District, except in Manhattan, where they continued to trend up 
and have risen nearly 10 percent over the past year.  Office construction activity has been brisk in 
Manhattan but remains subdued across most of the District .  Industrial availability rates were mostly 
steady to down slightly, with asking rents on industrial space rising on Long Island but mostly flat across the rest of the District.  Finally, retail vacancy rates in Manhattan continued to trend up at mid-year; still asking rents continue to rise and are up roughly 8 percent from comparable 2013 
levels.     
Other B usiness Activity  
The labor market has continued to strengthen since the last report .  A growing proporti on of 
manufacturers say they have added workers in recent weeks, and, as has been the case for a number 
of months now, somewhat more service firms say they are expanding than reducing employment.  
Moreover, considerably more contacts in both sectors say they plan to expand than shrink their workforces in the second half of the year.  A  major New York City employment agenc y report s that 
hiring activity has continued to advance gradually —hiring in the financial sector has slowed slightly, 
though this contact notes that there continues to be strong demand for IT workers and growing 
demand for human resource professionals.  Wages and salaries, for the most part, remain stable.     
Manufacturing firms in the District report a further acceleration in activity since the last 
report , wh ereas  service-sector firms indicate steady, moderate growth.  Manufacturers report that 
input price increases have broadened somewhat, while service-sector businesses report that they 
 
 II-4 
continue to be fairly widespread.  However, the  large majority of firms in both sectors say that their 
selling prices remain mostly stable and expect  more of the same  in the second half of the year.  
Financial Developments 
Small-  to medium -sized b anks in the District report continued increases  in loan demand 
across all categories —especially commercial mortgages —since the last report . Bankers report 
ongoing declines in refinancing  activity.  Respondents indicate  that credit standards were unchanged 
across all loan categories. A growing proportion of resp ondents indicate declining spreads of loan 
rates over cost of funds , with narrowing reported across  all loan categories  but especially in 
commercial mortgages .  The vast majority of bankers —roughly four in five —indicate that average 
deposit rate s were unchanged.  Finally, b ankers report  increasingly widespread decreases  in 
delinquency rates in al l loan categories . Overall, more than 35 percent of respondents say 
delinquency rates have declined, while fewer than 5 percent say they have increased.   
III - 1 
 
 
THIRD DISTRICT — PHILADELPHIA  
 
Aggregate business activity in the Third District grew at a mode st pace during this 
current Beige Book period , with few changes from the prior period. Auto sales continued at a 
very strong pace of growth. Service sectors  maintained a moderate pace of growth overall, as did 
demand for transportation services , specifically . Nonauto retail sales and staffing services 
continued to rise at a  modest pace, although there are signs that  momentum is building for 
stronger growth  in the remainder of the year. Manufacturers also reported an ongoing modest 
rate of increase in activity. Tourist destinations continued to report  a slight rate of growth , 
hampered once more by the storms of the past winter that  prolonged the school year for  many 
throughout the mid- Atlantic states.  Real estate sectors  all reported slight overall growth for the 
current  Beige Book period . Builders and brokers reported that residential construction and real 
estate sales we re showing signs of slight increases off of  the low levels  seen in prior months . 
Relatively little  change in the  sector’s  slow growth rate  was noted by contacts from  commercial 
construction; however, contacts are optimistic for the near future as groundbreakings for the first 
wave of several  large projects  have recently occurred . Contacts reported a slight lull in leasing 
activity. Lending volumes continued to gr ow slowly  over  this period, and  credit quality 
continued to improve. Some contacts suggest that credit risks are rising with heated competition 
for loans. Overall, c ontacts  reported slight increases  in wages, home prices, and general price 
levels , similar to the last Beige Book period.  
Overall, contacts anticipated moderat e growth over the next six months . Moreover, they 
generally expressed greater confidence in the underlying economy  than in recent periods from 
their own perspective and from that of their consumer and business customers . About one -third 
of all firms report ed plans to increase employment and to make additional capital expenditures 
over the next six months. For smaller businesses, such plans are likely  to be realized on a very 
incremental basis.  
 
Manufacturing . Third District manufacturers have continued to report  modest increases 
in orders and shipments  since the last Beige Book . Gains in activity continued to reflect demand 
from a broad base of sectors. Specifically, demand from the auto, aerospace, and energy sectors continued to rise , as did orders from C hina. Demand from Europe was seen as mixed by 
manufacturers. Several contacts mentioned some growth originating from residential construction, although they tended to focus on the demand for manufactured housing. Energy -
related growth is particularly stron g from demand generated by efforts  to bring Marcellus shale 
gas to markets.  
Expectations among Third District manufacturers  that business conditions w ould improve 
during the next six months became more prevalent  with more firms expecting increases and 
fewer firms expecting decreases . Moreover,  one-third of firms reported that they anticipate 
higher levels of employment and capital expenditures in six months — slightly more  than during 
the last Beige Book period. 
 
Retail . Contacts have continued to report modest growth of retail sales in the Third 
District since the prior Beige Book period. Y ear-over-year sales comparisons were generally 
III - 2 
 
positive for both May and June — the best combined two- month result this year  so far . For June, 
an outlets mall operator reported one of th e best year -over-year sales results this year. Growth 
was highest for retailers of children’s clothing and for shoes. Sales were off for t he home 
furnishings category . This decline was attributed to the end of the tax refund  season  and 
interpreted as evidence that households will spend for the home when they have windfall 
income . Various contacts continued to report that s maller, family -run restaurants and retailers , 
especially in smaller market areas, are often  still struggling  to stay in operation. However, one 
contact noted a return of retail investment to strip center spaces that have been vacant since the 
recession. Contacts are generally optimistic that the recent retail sales gains will continue.  
Auto dealers continued to report  very strong sales through May and reported further 
strengthening into June. Dealers repeated their emphasis on staying  lean, with cautious 
incremental hiring, which is helping to generate  ongoing profitability. Sales are expected to 
remain strong  throughout the re mainder  of the year , according to dealers  — exceeding 2013 by 
as much as  6 percent to 9 percent . 
 
Finance . Third District financial firms have continued to report slight increases in total 
loan volume since the last Beige Book. While some g rowth was indicated in all broad categories, 
demand increased most for consumer credit lines, such as credit cards and auto loans. Home 
equity lines also grew, but gains were slower due to ongoing payoffs of prior balances by more cautious borrowers. Conta cts reported continued demand for commercial and industrial loans 
joined by ongoing  fierce competition to secure the business. The market for commercial real 
estate and home mortgages, especially refinancing, remains much softer  than other lines . Most 
banking contacts continued to report  steady improvement in credit quality and loan portfolios. 
However, heated competition among banks to secure new loans has led to increased warnings of “too-risky ” loan terms.  Overall, bankers expressed greater optimism for general economic 
growth — tending to report a growing confidence among businesses and consumers alike. One contact stated that this is the most optimistic he has felt since the recession began. However, cautious tendencies continue to dominate  most bus iness decisions .  
 
Real Estate and Construction . Third District homebuilders reported little change  in 
sales  from the last Beige Book period when a general malaise had dampened hopes for a strong 
spring season; however, construction has picked up. A New Je rsey builder reported that he  had 
salvaged May with end -of-month contract signings and w as seeing a little increase in sales  
activity in June but from very low levels. One  Pennsylvania builder continued to report slow 
sales and cited the overall weakness  in the resale market. Despite low sales, builders from both 
states stated that their construction crews  were now  pretty busy ; the poor winter weather had 
held up most of their active jobs. R esidential real estate brokers  reported slight improvement s in 
sales in June. Although May sales were still negative  in most major markets on a year -over-year 
basis , a major Philadelphia -area broker reported doing significantly better than plan in June and 
expressed hope that he  might yet end even for the year . The broker stated  that at least p art of the 
ongoing difficulty stem med from the tight ness of inventory of  lower -value homes .  
Nonresidential real estate contacts reported that growth in construction activity changed 
little from the slight pace  seen in the previous Beige Book period; the growth of leasing activity 
III - 3 
 
dropped back to a slight pace from the more modest growth observed in the prior period. 
However, construction activity is expected to accelerate throughout the second half of this year  
and the first half of 2015 because several major projects have recently broken ground and more  
will do so in the third quarter. The market for industrial/warehouse space remains strong 
throughout much of the Third District and one contact thought there wa s finally some firming in 
demand for Class A office space in the Philadelphia market  overall .  
 
Services . Third District service -sector firms continued to report moderate growth in 
activity since the last Beige Book. A little over half of all firms reporte d increases of new orders 
and of sales.  Demand has continued to increase at a moderate rate for truck shipping loads with 
capacity utilization levels approaching a tipping point that c ould spark sharp price increases and 
greater efforts to expand capacity.  Staffing contacts continued to report a modest pace of growth; 
however, they were more upbeat as their  activity includ ed many new hires for permanent 
placements. Overall, the vast majority of service -sector contacts reported expectations that the 
growth t rend will continue over the next six months.  
Contacts from tourist areas continued to report a slight rate of growth overall. Prolonged 
school years in many districts reduced some tourist activity at  summer’s start  from the mountains 
to the sea. Jersey shore contacts reported somewhat stronger activity as they complete their 
return to full capacity following Hurricane Sandy. Contacts along the Delaware shore communities reported somewhat flat activity compared with last year, but for many, 2013 was a 
banner year. Mountain resorts also reported somewhat flat activity for May and June  compared 
with last year . Several contacts continued to report that maintaining tourist numbers has not 
translated into comparable sales gains for area restaurants and retailer s. Many visitors are 
maintaining tighter budgets while on vacation. All of the tourism contacts remain generally positive for future growth.  
 
Prices and Wages . Overall, Third District contacts reported little change to the steady, 
slight pace of price level increases, similar to other recent Beige Book periods. The percentage of manufacturing firms reporting an increase in their input costs rose from about one -fourth to 
about one -third . However, the  percentage of firms that  increas ed their product prices  barely 
budged, while a greater percentage of firms reported decreasing their own prices. Overall, prices 
paid and received by service- sector firms changed little from last period , with  about one -third of 
firms report ing increases.  Auto dealers reported little change in pricing . Many contacts continued 
to report tight, or narrowing, margins. Homebuilders reported that costs have been relatively flat over the last th ree months. Brokers reported slight, steady overall increases in home prices. 
Contacts among service -sector companies reported little change in labor costs. One staffing 
company serving a growing metro area reported that the wage scales across multiple job codes 
for a major contract renewal were unchanged from two years ago. The contact stressed that there 
was “ no shortage of labor.” Another staffing company contact from a smaller, growing metro 
area reported  that wages were going up but that “ clients were nonplussed.” Overall, contacts 
reported that hiring occurs when it’s necessary for replacement and for some incremental growth , 
but firms are much more cautious about hiring to expand capacity.  
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
The Fourth District ’s economy  expanded  at a modest pace during the past six weeks.  
New orders and production at District factories grew slowly . Demand for construction services 
increased slightly compared to earlier in the second quarter. Year -to-date sales of new cars  were 
up moderately from a year earlier , while  retailers  saw higher same- store revenues compared to a 
year ago . Since our previous  report , coal production and s hale gas activity were little changed , 
freight volume  continued to strengthen, and the  demand for business  and consumer credit moved 
slightly  higher .  
On net, payrolls showed a mild increase. S taffing firms  provided mixed reports . Job 
openings  were found mainly  in energy, healthcare, and IT . Upward pressure on wages is being 
felt by the construction and freight transport industries. Input  and finished goods  price s were 
stable , apart from  increases for some m etals and agricultural products  and a decline in coal 
prices .   
Manufacturing. Reports from  District factories  indicated  that new orders and production 
were stable or grew at a modest pace during the past six weeks . Strongest demand came from the 
motor vehicle, oil and gas, and residential construction markets. We heard  comments about 
domestic markets gaining tractio n, while  European sales  showed only slight gains . Finished 
goods inventories  decreased since ou r last report: S everal manufacturers noted th at the change 
was in response to rising demand; others cited a rise in raw material prices as a reason to keep 
inventories low. O ur contacts  are cautiously  optimistic  about the domestic  outlook, and  they  
project a modest rise in  demand  relative to current levels  in the coming months . Steel shipments 
grew slightly  since our  last report , with  a further gradual  improvement anticipated  through year’s 
end. Year-to-date auto  production (through May)  at District assembly plants  is 8 percent higher  
as compared to 2013. An  original equipment manufacturer  (OEM ) told us that his company’s 
projection for 2014 sales  of autos and light trucks  industry wide has been revised upward to 16.3 
million units.   
  Capital expenditures are  in line with budgeted amount s for the fiscal year.  Those 
intending  to increase capital budgets  as the year progresses  reported that  the additional  monies 
would be used for productivity enhancements or  research and development.  There is concern 
about the negative impact on capital spending  due to the elimination of  the 50 percent 
accelerated depreciation  rule. Raw material prices were largely unchanged . However, s everal 
manufacturers  reported  a rise in metal prices  (copper, nickel, and steel) , which they successfully 
passed through to customers. Hiring of production workers  continued to pick up, but t he net gain 
in payrolls is  small. Wage  pressures are contained.      
Real Estate and Construction . Sales of new  and existing  single-family homes improved  
during the past six weeks , when compared to earlier in the second quarter . However, y ear-to-date 
purchases of new and existing homes through May were somewhat lower than in 2013. One 
IV - 2  
builder  pointed to a lot shortage, which may be a contributing factor to softer sales  in his servic e 
area. Another builder  is concerned about a lot shortage  putting upward pressure on home prices. 
Single -family construction starts across the District are on a slow upward trend and slightly 
ahead of year -ago levels.  New -home contracts were  mainly  in the move -up price -point 
categories . A few builders noted a  small resurgence in interest from f irst-time buy ers. There was 
little change in new -home pricing  during the past six weeks , although some  builders said that 
they are considering  raising prices in the second half of the year . Existing -home prices are 
trending slowly higher. Homebuilders ’ outlooks  for the remainder of 2014 varied widely.        
Nonresidential builders  reported little change in their pipeline s during the past six wee ks, 
while most said that activity is  above year-ago levels.  In general, our contacts are seeing an 
improvement in the number of inquiries and growing  backlogs. Demand  was strongest  from the 
energy,  housi ng (public and private), retail , and healthcare markets . Most  builders  are fairly 
optimistic in their outlook, but they remain concer ned about labor issues and tight  margins. One 
builder mentioned that  rising  margins  contributed to a decline in his contract win rate.   
Homebuilders reported  that banks re main reluctant to finance single -family  tract 
development , while c ommercial developers  indicated  that banks  and insurance companies are 
more willing to finance projects , including multifamily developments . Construction- material 
pricing  is projected to rise  2 to 5 percent this year. Highest increases are expected for hardwoods, 
concrete, and steel.  General  contractors  reported seasonal hiring , including college recruitment, 
is at a normal rate. Little additional hiring is expected for the remainder of the summer.  Craft-
workers are  difficult to find and are driving up wa ges (general and subcontractors) . Builders  
reported  that a  movement of trade workers among competing firms has picked up. They 
attributed the job changes to offers of higher w ages, especially from  oil and gas companies.      
Consumer Spending . Retail sales during May and into early June were consistent with 
or moderately higher than those seen earlier in the second quarter. Same- store revenues were 
generally  higher than a year ago . One retailer attributed revenue growth to  an ongoing effort to 
update  her product mix, not increased  foot traffic.  Another  observed that consumer confidence 
and her  company’s domestic sales are both exhibiting slow growth and that the total value of 
goods purchased by the typical consumer is on a decline. As a result, the industry is increasing 
the use of promotions. Retailers are hopeful that third- quarter revenues wi ll be about 1 to 3 
percent higher  compared to a year earlier . We heard reports about  a run -up in dairy and meat 
prices that is being partially offset by a decline in the prices of some other  agricultural 
commodities. Food inflation this year is expected to be about 3 percent. Otherwise,  vendor  and 
shelf prices held steady . Several of our  retail  contacts noted that  additional monies have been 
added to their capital budgets, mainly for brick- and-mortar projects. Payrolls are stable.    
The number of new motor vehicles  sold in May declined on a month- over-month basis . 
However, y ear-to-date sales  through May  were moderately  higher  compared to 2013. Consumer 
IV - 3  
preferences shifted away from s maller , fuel -efficient cars  to SUVs and crossover ve hicle s. New 
car inventory has increased since our last report . Used-car purchases have fallen off during the 
past couple of months, but year -to-date sales through May of used vehicles were stronger  than 
for the same time period  in 2013. The o utlook by dealers for the summer  season is positive , and 
they foresee a slight increase in unit volume  year-over-year. Leasing  continues to be a very 
popular alternative for  potential new -vehicle buyers . We started  to hear reports about dealers 
investing in showroom  renovations and expansions that are not being mandated by  OEMs.  A 
need for service technicians is growing, but dealers are having  difficulty  finding qualified 
workers .             
Banking.  Demand for business credit  increased , but at a slower pace than earlier  in the 
second quarter . Requests were strongest for  commercial real estate loans. Some pickup was seen 
in C&I lending  to manufacturers. C onsumer credit demand  was stable.  Applications for auto 
loans remain  strong , and households are making  greater use of home equity  products . Residential 
mortgage activity  was flat.  Purchase transactions  dominated mortgage applications . Delinquency 
rates were stable.  No changes  were made to loan- application standards  during the past six weeks . 
Core deposits  held steady  or showed modest  growth , more so from commercial customers . 
Spreads between lending and deposit rates  narrowed slightly, mainly from the lending side. On 
balance, banking payrolls were steady: h iring was mainly for  staffing new branches or to work in 
regulatory compliance. We heard a couple of reports about staff cuts in mortgage business  lines .           
Energy.  Year -to-date coal production across the District is  consistent with prior -year 
levels, with no material shift anticipated in the near  term.  Spot prices  for steam and  metallurgical 
coal have declined . We heard a report that current pricing is less than optimal for producers, 
especially in Appalachia.  As a result, some producers have idled or are considering idling 
operations . Activity in the Marcellus and Utica shales is stable but at a high level.  Wellhead 
prices for natural gas have declined  slightly, while oil prices were steady . Little change was seen 
in equipment , material , and labor  costs .       
Freight Transportation.  Freight executives  characterized volume as good or strong  and 
said that revenues  are above year -ago levels. The  freight backup attributed to the severe winter  
has been reportedly eliminated . Although strengthening demand  is fairly broad based, shipments 
of construction-  and fracking -related materials  stand out . The near -term outlook for growth 
prospects is  favorable.  At this time, cost pressures are limited to fuel and labor (wage and 
regulatory). The former is covered through surcharges. Due to a driver shortage,  some  fleets are 
providing sign- on bonuses and are carefully monitoring their wage rates  to ensure that they  are in 
line with industry norms . We heard several  reports about  customers becoming more accepting of 
rate increases to cover higher labor co sts. Hiring is for replacement and to a lesser degree,  adding 
capacity.  Although m ost fleets would  like to add ca pacity, they are having  difficulty find ing 
qualified drivers. Year -to-date capital  spending is  in line  with  or slightly ahead of projections . 
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT –RICHMOND 
Overview.  The Fifth District economy grew modestly  since our last report.  Manufacturing 
conditions improved on balance in recent weeks. While s hipments increased at a slower pace , the volume 
of new orders rose slightly . Retail sales growth  slowed since our last report.  In contrast, r evenues  and 
customer demand increased at  non- retail  services firms.  Tourism was at  normal  seasonal levels. R eports 
on consumer  borrowing varied in recent weeks, while c ommercial lending improved. The District’s  
housing market strengthened modestly . Commercial construction differed by category and location. In 
agriculture,  crops damaged by late winter weather have been replanted . Natural gas production i ncreased  
and coal production  leveled off since our las t report . Employment  in the District increased modestly , with 
strong demand for skilled and semi -skilled labor  and limited wa ge pressures.  Prices of  manufactured 
finished goods and raw materials rose more slowly, according to our latest survey.  Service sector prices  
also increased at a slower pace whil e retail prices moved up slightly faster.  
Manufacturing . Manufacturing conditions improved on balance in recent weeks. According to 
our latest survey , the volume of new orders rose slightly, shipments  grew at a slower rate, and inventories 
of finished goods and raw materials remained constant . A food manufacturer in North Carolina stated that 
production has been  at full capacity , and sales have risen in the past month. A pipe manufacturer in 
Maryland said both shipments and new orders increased. According to a valve manufacturer in West 
Virginia , new orders, shipments, and backlogs increased due to t he robust energy industry . Another West 
Virginia contact stated that automotive manufacturing is doing well and th e chemical industry is strong. 
In contrast, a  producer of industrial equipment components reported a slowdown with fewer shipments 
and new orders. Additionally, a packaging materials company manager reported reduced shipments, 
although new orders  rose slig htly. Most producers were optimistic about future business conditions. 
Prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slower pace, according to our most recent survey.   
Ports. Port of ficials reported robust gro wth in container traffic  since our last report , with very 
good volumes moving through the District’s three largest ports.  Transfers of h eavy machinery and autos 
remained strong. Both imports and exports increased , with forest products, grains, soybeans, and auto 
parts leading among exports. Key imports were auto parts, apparel and textiles.  Imports of housing-
related products , such as furniture and appliances, decelerated . Officials reported some diversions from 
the West Coast as shippers used East Coast  ports to avoid potential labor issues duri ng contract 
negotiations.  
Retail. Retail sales growth slowe d since our last report . A g rocery  contact  in N orth C arolina  said 
his revenue  growth was seasonal and  related to events such as graduation and Memorial D ay. An 
executive at a S outh C arolina  grocer y chain reported  an increase in  prices, particularly for meat.  
According to the president of a Maryland chain discount store , sales at his business as well as at other 
 V-2  
nearby stores have fallen in the last few weeks.  He remarked, “People are meeting their needs first, then 
their wants.”  A large auto dealer said that the massive vehicle recalls have recently begun to have a s light 
adverse effect on sales of used cars at his business.  However, customer traffic remained up and new car 
sales were strong. Other car dealers also reported solid new car sales.  Retail prices rose slight ly faster.  
Services. Revenues and customer demand increased in recent weeks at services firms, according 
to most sources. An  accounting firm in Maryland was receiving more proposals fo r audit work. In 
addition, a n executive at a national freight trucking firm reported a spike in demand for shipping as home 
improvement stores stocked up for Fourth of July sales. He also noted an increase in  contracts for future 
shipping. In contrast, a N orth Carolina hospital official  reported that the facility continued to prepare for 
Affordable Care Act changes, with little change in already soft volumes. P rice growth slowed in the 
service sector . 
Tourism contacts reported normal  seasonal activity , with  many late bookings as tourists look ed 
for deals . According to  a Washington, D.C. source, the infl ow of tour buses was a t typical summer  
volume s. In South C arolina , a hotel  executive said occupancy was  steady at a high leve l. A contact on the 
outer banks o f North Carolina said that visitor  traffic was up  seasonally , but not above a year ago . New 
air-taxi service there  is expected to increase tourism . A hurricane hitting the area on the Fourth of July 
holiday weekend had only a minor impact. A manager at a V irgin ia hotel chain  reported that  bookings 
were on pace with a year ago  and room  rates rose in July . Rates elsewhere  were mostly unchanged.  
Finance.  Reports on consumer  borrowing varied in recent weeks, while commercial lending 
improved. Growth in r esident ial mortgage demand slowed across most of the D istrict . However, a  lender 
in North Carolina  reported a  slight acceleration in demand , and a West Virginia banker  reported modest  
growth in the northern part of the state due to economic growth at natural gas sites. Refinance lending 
declined  in Virginia and West Virginia , with a  West Virginia lender stating that the Qualified Mortgage 
rules have complicated and slowed down the lending process. Demand for consumer  loans edged up in 
North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia. Commercial and industrial loan demand was strong in North 
Carolina and Virginia. A bank er in Richmond said  lending had increased for apartments, condos , health 
care centers, and shopping centers . Small business lending was starting to bounc e back  in Charlotte, 
according to a banker there. A nother North Carolina  banker  reported  strict mortgage standards , but an 
easing of cost terms for well -qualified commercial and industrial borrowers. A loan officer  in West 
Virginia echoed that mortgage standards remained  tight , adding  that regulatory scrutiny w as intense . 
Credit quality strengthened according to contacts in North Carolina and West Virginia.   
Real Estate  The District’s housing market improve d modestly  since the last report . A Northern 
Virgin ia broker reported normal  buyer traffic, but expects a seasonal slowdown in the next few weeks.  A 
Realtor  in South Carolina saw  steady demand for mid- range homes . However, demand declined for  entry 
level homes.  Home prices  rose across the board in Asheville, Charlotte, Columbia, and Raleigh . In 
 V-3  
Northern Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C., larger price increases  were reported for higher -end 
homes  compared to other types of homes . Housing inventory varied according to contacts, with mild 
growth  in Fairf ax, Myrtle Beach, and Washington, D.C., while a broker  in Charlotte reported a slight  
decline . Single family residential construction increased moderately since the last report in Raleigh and 
Charlotte ; real estate contacts in Washington D.C. reported no c hange. In contrast , a Realtor  in Myrtle 
Beach observed a decline in sales and construction. Multifamily new construction and leasing remained 
strong.  
Realtors in Richmond, Virginia Beach, Raleigh, Columbia , and Charleston, South Carolina  
reported an uptick  in commercial construction, while contacts in West Virginia and Washington, D.C . 
saw little  change . A broker  in Maryland said that medical construction ha d stopped. Grocery- anchored 
retail construction remained strong across the District . Commercial retai l contacts reported solid  leasing 
in Virginia Beach , Richmond, Columbi a, and Charleston, South Carolina. D emand for retail space in 
Washington D.C. was flat.  Industrial leasing demand weakened  in West Virginia  and Raleigh, but 
strengthened in Charleston, S outh Carolina . Office leasing was robust in Charlotte and Charleston, South 
Carolina . Most Realtors  reported no change in vacancy  rates, except in the Carolinas, where contacts in 
Charlotte , Raleigh, and Char leston noted a slight decrease across sub -market s. Reports on rents varied. 
Contacts said that  commercial sales edg ed up in Raleigh, northern Virginia, Richmond, and Columbia. 
Commercial sale prices increased in Charleston , South Carolina  and Virginia Beach.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources. R eplantin g of crops due to extended winter weather was  
complete d and wheat harvesting finished up in the  Carolina s, according to a n agriculture contact. Overall, 
fertilizer prices remained steady, while agricultural chemical prices and crop seed prices increased 
slightly . Some agribusiness owners  reported lower commodity prices compared to last year. However, a  
sod company reported higher prices as planting and harvesting increased due to high demand and low 
inventory. Cotton prices stabilized, according to source s, while seafood  prices rose .  
 Coal production leveled off  since our  last report, while prices rose  due to lower inventories  and 
falling  year -over-year production. Natural gas output  increased slightly in the past six weeks, while prices 
were unchanged.  
Labor Markets.  Employment increased at a moderate pace  in recent weeks. A  North Carolina 
staffing manager reported an increase in demand for manufacturing and warehouse semi -skilled workers , 
such as  fork lift operators. Contacts noted growth in jobs across ma ny sectors in the Asheville region and 
in the R esearch Triangle  of North Carolina . In Virginia , skilled manufacturing and construction workers, 
welders, truck drivers, and engineers were in short supply.  Although demand there increased for workers  
in const ruction, hospitality, and recreation, many jobs were only part time . In contrast, a  contact at a 
staffing agency in Maryland said that demand weakened slightly in recent weeks. Reports on wages were 
also mixed, with little  wage pressure in Maryland and Vir ginia , while  wage  increases were reported  in 
 V-4  
Raleigh, Charlotte, and Asheville . According to our latest  surveys, manufacturing employment rose at a 
slightly slower pace  while average wage growth eased and the workweek lengthened . Employment in the 
service sector increased  at a faster pace , and wages rose more quickly at non -retail service firms while 
wage growth slowed at retail establishments.  
VI-1 
 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA  
 
On balance, reports from Sixth District business contacts suggest that economic activity 
expanded modestly in June and early July .  The outlook among businesses  remained  positive  as 
most anticipate higher growth in the near term. 
Retailers noted that sales rose at a slightly  faster pace relative to the previous report  and 
vehicle sales grew solid ly.  According to travel and tourism contacts, t he hospita lity sector  
continued to experience robust  activity .  Reports on residential home sales were mixed with fewer 
brokers noting  an increase in home sales relative to the previous report , while builders ’ reports 
remained fairly positive .  Both builders and brokers indicated that  home prices appreciated  from a 
year ago .  Commercial real estate contacts witnessed  continued improvement in demand and 
increased  construction activity .  Manufactur ers cited growth in new orders and production.  Bankers  
noted improved l oan growth since the previous report .  Payroll employment grew at a modest pace  
across most of the District.  Wages and input cost pressures remained stable  overall .   
Consumer Spending and Tourism .  Since the last report, the consensus among District 
retail ers was that  sales growth picked up slightly  with s everal merchants indicat ing that customers 
spent more money per visit to their establishments than earlier in the year .  Strength in residential 
real estate sales was noted as positively impacting  furniture stores and other retailers in high growth 
areas  across the region .  Auto sales continued to grow at a solid pace  in June and early July . 
District r eports on tourism and business travel remained positive .  Activity in Georgia and 
Florida was strong with high occupancy numbers at local hotels and resorts .  Firms  reported s everal 
tourism -related capital expenditure projects under construction, intended to stimulate travel to the 
area.  Mississippi ’s casino gaming revenues in  the first half of the year decreased compared with a 
year ago .  Hospitality  industry contacts expressed  concern s that a rise in  gas prices m ay adversely 
affect summer tourist activity .   
Real Estate and Construction .  Fewer District brokers cit ed growth this period than in the 
previous report .  Just over  half of broker s indicated that home sales had increased from the year 
earlier level , down from nearly two- thirds in June’s report .  Most indicated that inventories either 
remained the same or declined on a year -over-year basis .  The majority of contacts continued to 
report that home prices remained above last year ’s level .  The outlook among brokers about future 
sales activity was less optimistic  relative to our last report.  
On the other hand, r eports from District builders remain ed fairly positive .  Most contacts felt  
that recent activity either met or exceeded their plan for the period .  The majority of builders 
VI-2 
 
indicat ed that construction and new home sales were ahead of the year earlier level .  Builder s noted 
that the inventor y of unsold homes remained unchanged from a year ago .  The majority of contacts 
continued to report modest home price appreciation.  The  outlook among  builders for construction 
and home sales was positive . 
Demand for commercial real estate continued to impr ove across most of the region.  
Absorption rates remain ed positive .  Construction continued to increase at a modest pace from last 
year and most contractors  noted that their current backlog was  ahead of year earlier levels .  Contacts 
indicated that apartment construction remain ed fairly strong and reported that the level of 
construction activity across other property types remained steady .  The outlook among District 
commercial real estate contacts remained positive with most expecting activity to gr ow at a steady 
pace through the summer months . 
Manufacturing and Transportation .  Manufacturers  indicated that activity sustained the 
solid  pace of growth noted in the previous report .  New orders and production continued to increase,  
supplier delivery times slowed as demand for inputs rose , and commodity prices were elevated .  
The outlook among purchasing managers for higher production over the next three to six months  
remained consistent with  the previous report .   
Transportation activity in the District continued to expand since the last report .  Rail 
contacts reported notable year -over-year growth in shipments of petroleum products, grain, 
machinery, and military and tr ansportation equipment .  Intermodal traffic remained robust .  District 
ports not ed strengthening in container traffic and break -bulk cargo, along with growth in shipments 
of autos and machinery .  Contacts in trucking cited broad- based increases in freight volumes and 
tonnage.  
Banking and Finance .  Bankers  continued to report increased  competition and aggressive 
rates and loan structures .  Contacts noted loan growth was strong over the last couple of months, 
with some of that growth coming from increased credit line usage .  Much of the borrowing was 
used to lower the cost of existing debt and to finance acquisitions .  Banks continued to compete 
aggressively for quality borrowers, especially in small business lending .  Mortgage demand, in 
general , was lower than last year .  Applications for new home purchases made up a larger 
percentage of t otal mortgage applications  as refinancing activity slow ed.  Some contacts cit ed an 
increase in  demand for second mortgages and commercial development loans .  Auto lending was 
characterized as strong and competitive in June and early July .  Delinquencies were down and have 
returned to prerecession levels at many institutions. 
VI-3 
 
Employment and Prices .  Payrolls across the District continued to expand in June and early 
July, but at a slow pace .  The District’s aggregate payroll growth was dragged down by notable  
payroll losses in Florida . That said,  in the aggregate, manufacturing employment increased across 
the District.  Contacts reported continued difficulty filling positions in trucking , construction, and 
for specific information technology  positions .  Staffing agencies  noted that job placements we re up 
mode stly, while the flow from temporary to permanent employment rose  slightly . 
Wage growth remained  in the 2–3 percent range, with the exception of some high- skill, low -
supply fields .  Growth in input cos ts was muted for most businesses, with reports of greater cost 
inflation for some higher demand services and commodity -related inputs, including trucking 
services, construction materials , and food.  A growing number of contacts cit ed successful attempts 
to raise prices, though such increases reportedly required more negotiation than was typical pre -
recession .  According to the Atlanta Fed’s survey on business inflation expectations, firms’ unit 
costs were up 1.9 percent on a year -over-year basis in June .  Looking forward, survey respondents 
indicated that they expected unit costs to rise 2.0 percent over the coming 12 months, on average.  
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Gulf Coast refineries continued to run at near record 
levels, as they have for much of  2014.  Refineries continued to invest in storage capacity to 
accommodate increased crude oil inventories flowing to the Gulf Coast from the Cushing, 
Oklahoma  hub.  Regional exports of crude oil rose on a year -over-year basis .  Energy firms expect 
continue d strength in the sector and strong demand during the summer months. 
While much of Tennessee, southwest Louisiana, and the southernmost tip of Florida 
continued to experience  abnormally dry conditions, most of the District was drought free .  Some 
areas received excessive rain causing delays in production although recent, dryer weather conditions 
allowed planting to continue .  Regional producers benefitted from higher prices for many of their 
agricultural products , lower costs for feed and fertilizer, and fuel costs leveling off .  Recent r ecord -
high prices  in cattle  and hogs  were attributed both to growing international demand and to domestic 
supply constraints .   
 VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT —CHICAGO   
Summary .  Growth in economic activity remained moderate in June and contacts 
maintained their optimistic outlook for the rest of the year. Consumer and business spending both 
increased.  Growth  in manufacturing production and construction and real estate activity was  
moderate. Credit conditions continued to improve. Cost pressures increased  some , but remained  
modest. Corn, soybean, wheat, cattle, and milk prices were down, while hog prices were up.  
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending increased in June, but the overall pace of growth 
remain ed modest. Reports were mixed, but in most cases , retail sales met or fell slightly below 
expectations . Retailers cited the abnormally wet weather and higher food and energy prices as 
factors  likely restraining consumer spending ; for example , a grocery contact noted that consumers 
were substituting toward lower quality  cuts of meat in response to rising  prices. Contacts also noted 
that the restrained  consumer spending had led to increased prom otional activity, crimping retail 
margins. In spite of the setbacks , contacts  remained optimistic for the remainder of the year. Light 
vehicle sales rose as consumers continued to enjoy favorable incentives and credit conditions. Auto 
dealers reported that  activity in service and parts departments increased because of vehicle recalls .  
Business spending.  Business spending continued to grow at a moderate pace in June. 
Capital expenditures  and spending plans continued to increase , with e xpenditures still con centrated 
on industrial and IT equipment. A number of contacts  – especially automotive suppliers – again 
reported expanding capacity . Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most manufacturers 
and retailers, though some auto dealers reported that  shortages of certain  popular models were 
hindering sales. Hiring picked up and hiring expectations continued to increase, with the gains more 
pronounced in the service sector than in manufactur ing. Demand remained strong for skilled 
workers , particularly for professional and technical occupations  and skilled manufacturing and 
building trades . A number of manufacturing contacts reported investing in labor -saving equipment 
or employee training because of the challenge in finding skilled workers. In contrast , a construction 
contact noted that builders  are unwilling to invest in train ing workers  until demand is stronger . 
Construction and real estate.   Overall, construction and real estate activity increased at a 
moderate pace in June. Both single - and multi -family residential construction expanded. Builders 
reported continued strength in high- income urban markets but a slight decline in new suburban 
contracts. Several contacts also indicated that improved credit conditions were making i t easier to 
finance new projects . On a similar note, r eal estate contacts indicated that access to mortgage credit 
 
 VII-2 
has improved. Nonetheless, home sales declined modestly over the reporting period, while rents and 
prices were somewhat higher.  Both builders  and realtors noted that higher prices and mostly 
stagnant incomes have weighed on affordability and held back a broader pick up in housing 
markets . Demand for nonresidential construction strengthened considerably, with contacts citing an 
increase in indus trial, infrastructure, and retail projects. Commercial real estate activity continued to 
expand, as vacancies ticked down and rents rose. Leasing of industrial buildings, office space, and 
retail space all increased.  
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing production continued to grow at a moderate pace in June. 
The auto, aerospace, and energy industries remained a sourc e of strength for the District. Steel 
service centers reported improving order books, as did many specialty metal manufacturers. In addition, a  scrap metal contact noted large inflows from demolitions , which tend to be a leading 
indicator of  future new construction. Manufacturers of construction materials reported steadily 
increasing production and demand. Demand for heavy and medium duty trucks grew moderately, as 
trans portation volumes rose . Demand for heavy machinery  continued to grow at a slow but steady 
pace, with some improvement noted by contacts in domestic and European markets. C onstruction 
machinery again was a positive while the global weakness in  mining continued to weigh on 
demand. Contacts reported that lower  demand and increasing inventories had  led some heavy 
machinery producers to reduce capacity.  
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions improved moderately from the prior reporting peri od. 
Equity market volatility decreased further, as did corporate financing costs for a number of District 
firms. Business lending increased, with contacts noting a  pickup in demand for the financing  of 
equipment  and commercial real estate. Contacts also re ported an uptick in leveraged lending for 
dividend recapitalizations and strategic acquisitions. Banking contacts continued to cite competitive 
pressure on structure and pricing for traditional and leveraged business lending, particularly from 
nonbank financial institutions willing to take on higher credit risk. Growth in consumer loan 
demand was steady over the reporting period, with an increase in applications for credit cards, 
continued growth in auto lending, and an uptick in mortgage originations a nd home equity lending.  
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures increased, but remained  modest. Overall, industrial metals 
prices  changed little , although contacts noted some increases in  steel, copper, and nickel  prices . 
Energy costs remained elevated. Competition put downward pressure on retail prices ; with little 
change in wh olesale prices, there was some compression in retail margins . Contacts again reported 
cost pressures for retail meat and dairy items , as wholesale prices for both remained  elevated . In 
 
 VII-3 
addition, a  contact noted that shortage s were driving up leather prices.  Wage pressures increased , 
primarily for skilled workers . Non- wage labor costs  were little  changed . 
Agriculture.  The District’s corn and soybean crops made up ground after a late star t to 
planting  as favorable weather helped plants emerge more quickly than the five -year average. The 
consensus among contacts was that the corn and soybean crops were in excellent shape, but were 
unlikely to set records when harvested because of  the late plantings. Corn, soybean, and wheat 
prices moved down during the reporting period. More farmers than a year ago took advantage of the spring rally in crop prices to lock in a profit on a larger portion of their expected harvest. Hog prices 
moved highe r as disease affected supplies . Farmers received lower prices for milk and cattle, yet 
these prices remained well above levels necessary to  cover  the costs of production. 
 
 VIII- 1 
Eighth District -  St. Louis  
Summary  
Economic activity in the Eighth District has increased modestly since the previous report. Retail 
activity in the District has expanded at a modest pace. R ecent reports of planned activity in manufacturing 
and services have been positive on net. Residential real estate market conditions have continued to 
deteriorate  throughout the District , while commercial real estate market conditions have improved.  
Lending activity at a sample of small and mid -sized District banks has increased slightly. Finally, wage 
and employment levels have grown modestly, while prices have increased slightly.  
Consumer Spending  
The retail sector experienced, on net, modest growth across the District with openings announced 
in the apparel, auto, and home and garden sectors , but these were accompanied by  a few closures by both 
national and local retailers. Contacts noted that the retail furniture market remains soft in parts of the 
District. One major mall in the District saw  slightly positive sales g rowth . Contacts reported good sales  
entering the summer months for hardware/lumber yards, retail establishments, and restaurants. Finally, 
some restaurants and businesses across the District saw historically large revenue during the World Cup 
festivities.  
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  
Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous  report. Several 
manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the 
District, while  a smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to reduce their workforces . Firms in auto 
parts, medical equipment, adhesive and sealant products, precious metal s, electronic products, alcoholic 
beverage, and boat manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand operations in the District. In 
contrast, firms that manufacture food and pharmaceutical preparations reported plans to lay off workers in 
the District.  
Reports of planned activity  in the District’s service sector have been positive since the previous 
report. Firms in transportation ; distribution ; courier and express delivery ; and business, engineering, 
 VIII- 2 
communication, and hotel services reported new hiring and expansion plans in District states. In contrast, 
firms in health care, adjustment and co llection, and media services plan to lay  off employees.  Contacts  in 
Louisville reported that more restaurants are opening than are closing and that a major grocer expanded 
floor space.  
Real Estate and Construction  
Sales of new and existing homes have decreased in the largest metro areas of the District. 
Compared with the same period in 2013, May 2014 year -to-date home sales were down 6 percent in Little 
Rock, 4 percent in Louisville, 5 percent in Memphis, and 11 percent in St. Louis . May 2014 year -to-date 
single -family housing permits decreased in the majority of the District metro areas compared  with the 
same period in 2013. Permits decreased 25 percent in Little Rock, 17 percent in Louisville, 1 percent in 
Memphis , and  3 percent in St.  Louis . 
Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have improved, on balance, since the 
previous report . A contact reported weak demand for office space in the Louisville  downtown area, but 
expected an increase in office space leasing activity because of recent employment gains. Contacts in 
Memphis noted strong retail leasing activity . A contact in Little Rock reported a stable and healthy 
industrial market. A contact in St.  Louis  reported tight market conditions in the industrial market and an 
increas ing demand for new warehouse distribution centers with  high ceilings and good multi -modal 
access. Commercial and industrial construction activity improved throughout most of the District. A 
contact in Memphis reported a commercial expansion in Shelby Farms  Park. A contact in Louisville 
reported a new commercial development project in northern Kentucky. A contact in Little Rock reported a new office building under construction in Pinnacle Hills Promenade in Rogers, Arkansas. A contact in 
St. Louis  reported a n increase in commercial construction projects in north St.  Louis  County.  
Banking and Finance  
Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid -sized District banks increased 2. 8 percent 
from mid -March to mid -June. Real estate lending, accounting for 72  percent of total loans, increased 1.4 
percent over this  period. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 16 percent of total loans, 
 VIII- 3 
increased 4.7 percent over the period. Loans to individuals, accounting for 5.1 percent of total loans, 
increased 4. 6 percent over the period. All other loans, accounting for 6.8 percent of total loans, increased 
12.5 percent over the period. During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 1.7 percent.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
As of late June, Distr ict farmers had completed the corn, cotton, and rice  plantings . In contrast, 
soybean and sorghum plantings were behind the 5- year average rate of progress in Tennessee, Arkansas, 
Mississippi, and Kentucky. Over 90 percent of the District’s corn, cotton, ri ce, sorghum, and soybean 
crops were rated in fair or better condition. The winter wheat harvest was behind its 5- year average rate of 
progress for all District states. Year -to-date coal production in the District for May 2014 was 1.5 percent 
lower compared  with the same time last year.  However , District coal production for May 2014 was 0.3 
percent higher than in May 2013.  
Employment, Wages, and Prices  
Business contacts in the D istrict indicated that wage and employment growth has been modest, 
while prices h ave increased slightly  since the previous report . Contacts in the manufacturing sector 
throughout  the District cited lack of skilled blue -collar and technical workers as a concern, in some cases 
limiting business expansion. Contacts in Little Rock and Loui sville noted that wages are rising 
moderately for positions where the employment supply is limited. New hiring r eports from Louisville 
were notably positive: A  mall that will employ more than 1,000 employees  is set to open , and an e-
commerce retailer is fi lling more than 500 full -time jobs at its distribution center to meet growing 
deman d. 
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT --MINNEAPOLIS  
The Ninth District economy grew moderately since the last report . Increased activity  was 
noted in consumer spending, tourism, commercial construction and real estate, 
professional services , manufacturing , and  energy  and mining . Activity in residential real 
estate and agriculture was mixed, while decreased activity was noted in residential 
construction. Hiring outpaced layoff s in most areas of the district. Wage increases were 
generally modest , while overall prices remained relat ively level.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
Consumer spending increased modestly  on net . Sales at a Minnesota- based apparel 
retailer were up slightly from a year earlier, while comparable sales in stores at a 
Minneapolis area mall were down slightly. A Minnesota -based food producer recently 
reported a slight decrease in sales. Meanwhile, a manager of a mall in Montana reported  
that recent sales were up about 7 percent compared with a year ago. An auto dealer in 
Montana noted that sales have recently picked up after a slow start to the year.  
Tourism activity was up from a year ago. Some Montana tourism -related 
businesses noted an increase in reservations at campgrounds and for outfitting and 
guiding services during the early part of the summer. According to a survey conducted by 
the Minnesota state tourism office, 38 percent of respondents from lodging and camping 
properties expect summer occupancy to be higher than a year ago, while 13 percent 
expect decreases;  the outlook was slightly more positive than last year’s survey. During 
the first five months of 2014, occupancies in the tourist destination of Deadwood, S.D., 
were up 5 percent compared with a year earlier. Relatively strong hotel occupancy rates 
were reported in the Minneapolis -St. Paul area.  
Construction and Real Estate  
Commercial construction activity  increased since the last report . Several new commercial 
developments were planned across the District. A few examples include a medical office 
building planned in South Dakota, an industrial building in e astern North Dakota, a 
mixed -use development in Minnesota , and a natural resource processor in Montana. The 
value of May  comm ercial permits in Billings, Mont., more than quadrupled from last 
year. However, i n Sioux Falls, S.D., commercial permits  in June  were down from a year 
ago. Residential construction decreased from last year . In the Minneapolis -St. Paul area, 
the value of J une residential permits decreased slightly compared with a year earlier. The 
value of permits issued in May decreased in the Bismarck, N.D., area from a year ago. 
IX-2 
The value of May  single -family residential building permits in Billings was down from 
last ye ar, but multifamily building was up. In contrast , the value of May residential 
permits in Sioux Falls increased more than 40 percent  from a year earlier.  
 Activity in commercial real estate markets increased  since the last report . Several 
commercial real estate sales and leasing transactions were announced since mid-May. An 
office building in Minneapolis will be sold for a city record of $365 per square foot. 
Residential real estate market activity was mixed . In the Sioux Falls area, May home 
sales were down 7 percent, inventory increased 7 percent and the median sales price 
increased 4 percent relative to a year earlier. May  home sales were down 1 0 percent from 
the same period a year ago in Minnesota ; the inventory of homes for sale incr eased 3 
percent and the median sales price rose 7 percent. However, i n Eau Claire, Wis., May 
home sales were up 9 percent from the same period a year ago and the median sales price 
dropped 3 percent . May home s ales increased relative to a year ago in the B ismarck area.  
Services  
Activity at professional business  services firms increased  since mid -May. Engineering 
contacts reported  increased activity as a result of widespread flooding.  An architect noted 
a slight increase in bidding activity since the last report.  Trucking contacts reported 
increased demand due in part to rail capacity constraints.  
Manufacturing  
Growth in the manufacturing sector continued. Respondents to a June survey of 
purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) reported increased manufacturing activity in Minnesota and the Dakotas; the index for Minnesota reached its 
highest level since prior to the recession. Contacts from the metal forming industry 
reported that business growth in 2014 was faster than 2013’s pace; demand from the auto 
sector moderated , while demand from other industries was up, with the notable exception 
of agricultural equipment, which fell. Contacts who produce capital equipment for manufacturers noted that demand for machinery was strong and that  the market for used 
equipment had “dried up.”  
Energy and Mining  
Activity in the energy sector remained strong, while mining was steady. Late -June oil and 
gas exploration activity decreased i n Montana and increased in North Dakota from a 
month earlier. Oil production bounced back up after dipping during the extreme winter cold. Two new pipelines to carry oil from  North Dakota were proposed. Falling corn 
IX-3 
prices have been a boon to ethanol producers, according to industry contacts. Output at 
Minnesota iron ore mines was roughly level with last year and was slightly below 
expectations. Activity was restrained in part because of the winter and a rail backlog, but demand from the steel industry also appears to have slowed. In contrast, exploration or 
permitting was under  way for several planned nonferrous mines throughout the District. 
Agriculture  
District crop producers made progress catching up on a late spring, but flooding due to heav y rains le d to crop losses in some areas. Corn and soybean emergence rates were 
consistent with five -year averages , and most crops were in good or excellent condition. 
District producers planted fewer acres of corn and more soybeans this year, in line with expectation s. The USDA forecast s solid harvests and a slight reduction in crop prices  by 
the end of the year. Prices received by farmers fell in June from a year earlier for corn, 
soybeans, wheat , and hay; prices increased for cattle, hogs, poultry , eggs , and milk.  
Employment, Wages and Prices  
Hiring outpaced layoff s in most areas of the D istrict. A number of business contacts 
noted increased difficulty finding qualified employees for open positions. In Minnesota, a 
call center was hiring 160 new workers, a bus manuf acturer announced an expansion that 
will create over 150 new jobs, a pharmaceutical research firm is establishing a new 
facility that will create 100 new jobs, a safety equipment m anufacturer was adding 100 
jobs, and a financial services firm was expanding  its information technology staff by 50 
workers. However, a printing operator announced that it will close a facility in 
Minnesota , affecting 280 workers.  
Wage increases were generally modest . For example, w ages for manufacturing 
workers in D istrict state s were up about 1 percent for the three -month period ended in 
May compared with the same period a year earlier .  
Overall p rices remained relatively level.  End-of-June gas prices in Minnesota 
were slightly higher than prices in mid -May. Metals prices were g enerally flat since the 
last report, while lumber prices decreased slightly.  
X-1 
 
TENTH DISTRICT – KANSAS CITY  
 
 
The Tenth District economy expanded modestly in late May and June, and most contacts 
anticipated stronger growth in the months ahead. Consumer spending rose modestly, with 
retailers, auto dealers and restaurant contacts reporting slightly higher sales and tourism contacts 
reporting sharply stronger activity. District manufacturing activity continued to expand, while 
transportation and wholesale trade contacts noted moderately higher sales. Residential and 
commercial real estate activity strengthened further , while construction activity ticked  up with 
modest additional gains expected in the coming months. Bankers reported steady overall loan 
demand, improved loan quality and a slight increase in deposit levels. Crop prices dropped for 
wheat, corn and soybeans , while cattle and hog prices continued to rise. District energy activity 
picked up as the number of active  oil rigs expanded and natural gas rigs held steady. Prices  for 
raw materials and finished goods  rose slightly since the last survey, and wage pressures remained 
modest outside of some skilled trade positions. 
Consumer Spending . Consumer spending rose mode stly in late May and early June, and 
contacts were increasingly optimistic about future sales growth. District r etail sales continued to 
increase, but  at a slower pace than during the previous survey period. R etail sales were well -
above year-ago levels , and retail contacts anticipated robust sales  in the months ahead.  Several 
retailers noted stronger sales of home improvement and building materials, w hile sales for men’s 
apparel were weak. Auto mobile  sales picked up slightly , with mid -sized cars and SUVs selling 
particularly well. Automobile sales  remained higher than a year ago, and contacts expected 
strong growth in the coming months. Restaurant sales  increased slightly , with  sales  remain ing 
considerably higher than a year ago. Expectations for future restaurant sales moderated 
somewhat  but still remained solid. District tourist activity improved markedly, in part due to 
seasonal summer increases , with conditions considerably better than the previous year. Tourism 
contacts expected stronger  activity to continue throughout the summer and early fall months.    
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity . District manufacturing activity expanded 
modest ly, although the pace of growth slowed somewhat  compared to the previous survey 
period. Production fell slightly at non- durable goods -producing plants, while production 
increased for the majority of durable products, except for machinery which decreased considerably. Growth  in new orders and employment moderated in June, while order backlogs 
 
 
X-2 
 
rose.  Expectations for future factory activity remained steady at generally solid levels. 
Manufacturers’ capital spending plans continued to rise and remained higher t han a year ago.  
Wholesale trade and transportation firms reported moderate sales growth from the previous survey, particularly for construction products, while growth in professional and high- tech 
services activity eased. Wholesale trade, t ransportation, professional, and high- tech firms 
anticipated higher future sales activity  in coming months . Reduced government spending 
continued to impact several high -tech firms in the area.      
Real Estate and Construction. District real estate activity increased mod erately in late 
May and June, while construction activity rose slightly. Residential home sales expanded 
modestly, particularly for low - and medium -priced homes which continued to outsell higher -
priced homes. Residential home inventories continued to decli ne, and home prices increased 
further. Residential real estate contacts expected additional improvement in the coming months, 
with moderately higher sales and prices. According to builders and construction supply contacts, 
construction activity continued t o expand, although at a slower pace than during the previous 
survey period. Sales of construction supplies increased moderately, and housing starts were flat. 
However, builders anticipated starts and buyer traffic to increase modestly in the months ahead. 
Mortgage activity picked up slightly, but remai ned lower than a year ago as a decrease in 
refinancing activity continued to weigh on overall activity. Commercial real es tate activity 
strengthened further, with lower vacancy rates and increased sales, construction and absorption. 
The commercial real estate market was expected to expand moderately over the next few 
months. 
Banking. Bankers reported steady overall loan demand, improved loan quality , and a 
slight increase in deposit levels. Respondents reported a minor decrease in demand for residential real estate loans. Most respondents reported steady demand for commercial real estate loans, 
agricultural loans , and consumer  installment loans. Demand for commercial and industrial loans 
was relatively steady with a slight decrease compared to the last survey. Bankers reported improving loan quality compared to a year ago, and all bankers expected the outlook for loan 
quality t o either improve or remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained 
largely unchanged in all major loan categories. In addition, respondents reported a minor increase in deposits.   
 
 
X-3 
 
Agriculture. Heavy summer storms in June improved soil  moisture for developing crops 
and pastures but also caused some wind, hail and flood damage. Wet fields delayed the winter 
wheat harvest in Oklahoma and Kansas , and yields depended on the extent of drought, freeze and 
hail damage. Despite expectations of a poor wheat harvest in much of the District, wheat prices fell since the last survey period. The corn and soybean crops were in good condition overall , and 
improved growing conditions led to a drop in prices for both crops. Cattle prices continued to rise, but feeder cattle prices have recently increased much faster than fed cattle prices and 
narrowed margins for feedlot operators. The cumulative effect of reduced piglet numbers due to the swine virus and strong export demand for pork supported further gai ns in hog prices, even 
though pork production forecasts were raised due to heavier dressed weights and higher than expected slaughter in the second quarter.  
Energy.   District energy activity ticked up in late May and June. Business activity held 
steady, d rilling increased slightly , and expectations for the coming months strengthened further. 
The number of active oil rigs increased,  while natural gas rigs remained basically unchanged. 
Crude oil spot prices spiked in late June as a result of geopolitical conflicts in the Middle East 
threatening supply, but have come down somewhat as the threat has weakened.  Natural gas spot 
prices have moderated slightly since the last survey period, but remained above year -ago levels. 
Energy contacts expected oil and gas pr ices to stay near current high levels, and contacts 
reported an increase in planned capital expenditures. Several producers commented on increased 
drilling costs due to advancing technology, which is currently being offset by high oil prices.  
Wages and Pri ces. Prices grew at a slightly slower pace in most industries, and wage 
pressures were modest . Retail prices moderated somewhat but still increased over the previous 
survey period. The pace of growth slowed slightly for manufacturing raw materials and sell ing 
prices, but contacts expected further increases in future months. Transportation input prices were 
flat, and fewer firms raised selling prices, while restaurant menu prices continued to rise due to 
elevated food costs. Construction materials prices wer e slightly higher in June, and most builders 
expected further increases. Wage pressures were modest in most industries, with the exception of 
manufactur ing in which almost half of manufacturing contacts reported raising wages more than 
normal to attract or  retain some workers . Some contacts continued to report a short supply of 
workers, particularly for drivers, construction, high- tech, and skilled positions. 
 
 
 
XI-1 
 
ELEVENTH  DISTRICT —DALLAS  
 
 The Eleventh District e conomy grew at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing 
activity continued to increase , although there were a few reports of weaker demand. Retail and 
automobile sale s strengthened, a nd were above year -ago levels. Demand for nonfinancial services was 
stable or improved, while growth in loan demand slowed over the reporting period. Sales of single -family 
homes were flat to down slightly , but apartment, office and industrial leasing activity was strong. Demand 
for oilfield services remained  robust , and a gricultural conditions improved. Prices were unchanged or 
increased m odest ly at most responding firms, and employment held steady or rose slightly . Outlooks 
remained optimistic.  
 Prices   Most responding f irms said prices held steady or increased slightly  since the last report.  
Fabricated metals producers noted continued increases in selling prices and expect more in the next six 
months. Food producers said that selling prices had moved up due to rising input costs, especially for 
dairy and meat products . Retail prices rose slightly, while automobile selling prices were un changed. A 
transportation service firm said rates were up slightly, partly due to rising fuel costs , and a irlines said 
airfares and fees had moved up.  
The price of West Texas Intermediate crude rose since the last report, while  natural gas prices 
were flat . Gasoline  prices moved up due to higher oil prices and the sta rt of the summer driving season.  
 Labor Market    Employment levels held steady or increased modestly and some  contacts noted 
continued difficulty in finding skilled workers . Reports of hiring came from airlines, auto dealers, law 
firms, and manufacturers of brick,  fabricated metals, food, high tech and transportation equipment. Retail 
sector employment rose, and one contact noted that hiring was in line with increasing sales. S taffing firms 
noted a  slight increase in headcount, and an accounting firm noted growing success in hiring out -of-state 
talent. Energy contacts continued to report a very tight labor market  and respondents in food 
manufacturing and retail industries report ed difficulty finding workers in oil -producing regions. Shortages 
of labor in the housing sector continued, although one contact noted slight easing .   
Reports of upward wage pressures were roughly the same as in the last report. W age pressures 
remained  strongest for skilled workers in the energy and construction sectors , but there were reports of 
modest upward pressures in some other  industries , including airlines, high tech, fabricated metals, 
primary metals and transportation equipment manufacturing .  
 Manufacturing    Reports from manufacturers were mostly positive , although some firms not ed 
weaker demand since the last period. Construction- related manufacturers said demand  was stable or rose 
slightly . Lumber producers noted weaker -than- expected demand over the past six weeks, while a cement 
manufacturer saw stro ng demand in Houston and Dallas  and two brick manufacturer s noted increased 
XI-2 
 
demand in Austin and San Antonio. F abricated metals manufacturers noted a broad -based increase in 
orders , and said that demand was up 10 percent from year -ago levels. Primary metals producers reported 
steady growth in demand. 
 Contacts in high  tech manufacturing reported that sales were stable to slightly up since the last 
report, and i nventories were at desired levels. Outlooks were positive, and forecasted demand for memory 
and logic devices for the remainder of the year was revised up from the last reporting period.  
 Transportation equipment manufacturers said  demand was flat to down  compared to the last 
report , but they expect sales this year to exceed last year’s levels. Food producers said demand growth 
remained flat  over the reporting period, but overall sales were slightly above year -ago levels.  Refinery 
utilization rates eased over the reporting period. Chemical production strengthened with the end of the 
spring maintenance season. Outlooks of  refiners and chemical producers remained positive.  
 Retail Sales   Retail sales strengthened  over the past six weeks. Contacts noted slightly stronger 
growth than the previous reporting period, and demand was above year -ago levels. According to one 
national retailer, demand in Texas continued to outperform the national average. O utlooks for the 
remainder o f the year were optimistic.  
 Automobile sales increased since the previous report partly due to pent -up demand and partly due 
to the start of the summer selling season. Demand was up slightly year -over-year, and one contact noted 
that sales we re finally ba ck to pre -recession levels. Inventories varied by manufacturer , and were at 
desired levels. O utlooks for the third quarter and the remainder of the year were positive . 
  Nonfinancial Services    Demand for staffing services held steady, although a few contacts noted 
increased demand for oil and gas workers. O utlooks were more optimistic  than the previous report. 
Accounting firms reported a seasonal slowdown in demand, but activity remained at high levels. Outlooks 
were positive and contacts expect a pickup in demand for audit and advisory services  in coming months . 
Demand for legal services increased slightly in the last six weeks. Real estate- related business continued 
to grow and corporate work edged up, but demand for litigation services was weaker than expected.  
 Transportation service firms said overall cargo volumes increased since the last report  and 
outlooks continued to be positive. Intermodal car go volumes increased  over the p ast month but were even 
with year -ago levels.  Growth in s mall parcel shipments picked up, with demand growth led by  online and 
personal and health care retail ers. Railroad contacts reported notable increases in grain, crushed stone and 
lumber and wood volumes, while shipments of petroleum, primary forest materia ls and nonmetallic 
minerals declined .  
Airlines reported that passenger demand was flat to up since the last report . Demand for domestic 
travel  remained solid, while demand for foreign travel , particularly  to Europe and Asia was weak. 
Outlooks were unchang ed, with one contact expecting this year to be stronger  than 2013.   
XI-3 
 
Construction and Real Estate    Single -family ho using activity was flat to slightly down since 
the last report. Sales and buyer traffic held steady, but some contacts reported a seasonal slowdown in 
activity . Low inventories and higher construction costs continued to push up home prices. Contacts were 
optimistic that demand will remain strong this year . Robust apartment demand pushed up occupancy 
rates, and i ncreases in rents were strong i n several  major metros . Construction activity remained brisk , 
and contacts are optimistic in their outlooks through year -end.  
Office leasing activity remained solid  and occupancy high during the reporting period. Rents 
continued to trend upwards , especially for Class A office space,  and were above their pre- recession peak s 
in some markets. Office investment activity picked up in Dallas but slowed in Houston. Demand for 
industrial space was strong, with vacancy rates in Dallas and Houston near histo ric lows. O utlook s 
remained generally positive.  
Financial Services    Loan demand grew at a slightly slower pace compared to the previous 
reporting period. Commercial and residential real estate lending continued to grow, especially in Dallas, 
Houston and Austin , but one contact noted that regulat ions were limiting land development loans . 
Mortgage lending continued to increase at a modest pace , however, auto loan growth showed signs of 
cooling off. Small to medium -sized business lending fell slightly but remain ed at robust levels. Loan 
quality continued to improve  and interest rates on loans remained low due to strong competition for 
borrowers . Deposit volumes increased more than anticipated , while deposit rates remained low. Softer 
growth during the repor ting period has somewhat tempered outlooks .   
Energy    Demand for oilfield services remained  robust in the Eleventh District. Growth in Texas 
drilling activity continued to be concentrated in the Permian Basin in West Texas, but  southeast Texas 
saw an incr ease in drilling as well. Margins for oilfield service providers were up slightly in the Permian 
Basin  and the Gulf of Mexico , but generally remained narrow . Geological service firms continued to see 
strong demand. Outlooks for the rest of the year were more positive than during the prior reporting 
period.  
Agriculture   District drought conditions eased over the reporting period. W idespread rains 
greatly improved prospects for row crops, especially cotton, but came too late to aid the Texas wheat crop, which is expected to be down 20 percent this year. Most crop prices declined over the past six weeks due to expected stronger U.S. production. Pasture conditions improved and cattle prices continued 
to set new historical highs. Domestic demand for beef remained very strong despite record prices, while 
international demand for cotton remained low.  
XII -  1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO  
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to improve moderate ly during the reporting 
period of mid -May through June . Overall p rice inflation  remained quite modest,  and wage pressures were well  
contained on net . Most contacts indicated that retail sales growth was unchanged from the previous Beige 
Book. Demand for business and consumer services ticked up. Manufacturing  activity improved. D rought 
conditions contributed to reduced production of some fruits, vegetables, and livestock  products . Activity in 
real estate markets advanced, although  growth in the residential sector  slowed somewhat. Loan demand 
increased overall.   
Prices and Wages  
Price inflation  overall  remained  quite modest, although the pace of food and energy price increases 
appeared to pick up. Food price  inflation  has risen , driven by higher price inflation for beef , pork, and dairy 
items , as drought conditions in California  constrain supplies. A utilities provider expects an acceleration in 
natural gas and electricity  prices to occur in the near -term. Contacts indicated that the prices of  some  raw 
materials used in construction rose further . A lumber manufacture r was able to pass higher costs through to 
higher prices for customers .  
Most cont acts observed continued wage increases of 2- 3 percent per year . However,  in fast -growing 
regions , certain specialized positions for which the supply of qualified workers is scarce experienced much 
stronger  wage gains. In addition, s ome c ontacts’ firms  have felt pressure  to offer slightly higher  starting 
salaries in an effort to attract talent from competitors . Several contacts  pointed to rising minimum wages  as a 
source of upward wage pressure .  
Retail Trade and Services  
 Most contacts indicated that retail  sales growth  was unchanged since  the previous reporting period. 
Sales of low-end and mid- range technology goods were strong, offsetting relatively weak  sales of premium 
devices.  Contacts noted that s ales in the Internet and digital media sector inc reased  as well , particularly  for 
health and fitness  e-books . An apparel retailer  noted that inventories increased . In general, online retailers 
XII -  2 
 
experienced strong sales and continued to put pressure on t raditional brick -and-mortar retailers . Contacts  
observed  robust  demand for autos and home -related good s. Reports from a uto dealerships  pointed to strong  
sales growth f or new car s, supported by aggressive financing for creditworthy borrowers. However , sales of  
used vehicles softened .  
 Demand for business and consumer services ticked up.  Technology service providers reported  healthy 
overall condit ions, as both small and large businesses continued to make investments in cloud services, big 
data analytics, and security . Several contacts noted ong oing weak demand for dining out, as reflected in 
declining  same -store sales in the casual dining segment of the food service industry. The level of travel and 
tourism activity largely held steady or improved in most major District travel destinations.  
Manu facturing   
 District m anufacturing activity  improved during  the reporting period of mid -May through June . 
Demand for semiconductors strengthened and  inventories declined . Utilization rates at electronic components 
factories ticked up , approaching  rates associated  with  higher capital expenditures during  past business cycles. 
Contacts observed strong production in the  commercial aircraft  industry  due to a sustained backlog of orders . 
Contacts noted that m any biotechnology  manufacture rs experienced positive revenue trends of late and that 
new orders were up compared with last year . A manufacturer of renewable energy equipment noted that 
capacity utilization edged up, but significant capacity remains  available.  Defense- related manufacturer s 
indicated that capacity utilization rates declined and  the pace of new orders slowed  further . A metals 
fabricator reported that business conditions were largely stable. Steel manufacturers noted that capacity 
utilization rates at mills producing  inputs for  the au to industry have been over 90 percent.  However, at mills 
producing inputs for the construction industry, including nonresidential, commerci al, and infrastructure 
projects, capacity utilization rates have been lower, in the 60 -65 percent range. 
Agriculture and Resource -related Industries  
Contacts indicated that drought conditions contributed to reduced production of  some agricultural and 
resource- related goods. C ontacts expressed ongoing concerns  about water costs and availability . They also 
mentio ned that it would be challenging for  regulatory agencies to address issues related to pricing and 
XII -  3 
prioritiz ing limited water supplies if low levels of rainfall and snowpack persist next year . Contacts observed 
reductions in herd sizes  and plantings  of annual crops, including tomatoes  and rice.  Most p ermanent crops, 
including nut and fruit  trees, have not been affected yet, but some farmers may  choose to reduce new 
plantings  or remove l ess productive  orchards . Farmers in Idaho anticipate high  yields of grains, wheat , and 
potatoes  this year . Dairy operations  continued to benefit  from low feed costs . Contacts noted that  demand for 
logs slowed overall , as demand from Asian markets cooled.   
Real Estate and Construction  
Activity in real estate markets advanced, but growth in the residential sector has slowed since the start 
of the year . The rate of increase of home prices has slowed in many  areas.  Several contacts reported that, 
except at the very high  end, the level  of home sales also is down from  a year ago.  Residential construction 
activity  pick ed up, especially for multifamily  units  and higher -priced projects.  However, various contacts 
reported that activity has been constrained due to shortages of available lots, construction m aterials, and 
workers.  Vacancy rates for commercial space were mixed.  Some contacts reported low vacancy rates overall, 
while others pointed to high vacancy rates—particularly  for retail space— in part due to transitions to online 
distribution. Private -sector commercial construction activity increased modestly in most areas but more 
robustly in the San Francisco Bay Area and Southern California. Contacts from Southern California  and 
Hawaii also reported vigorous  public -sector construction activity.  
Financial Institutions  
Loan demand increased overall. Commercial real estate, home mortgage, and construction loan 
demand expanded modestly , although contacts noted that refinance volumes declined. Demand for auto loans 
held steady, but some contacts noted a decline in the  credit quality of consumers. In most areas, business loan 
demand increased only slightly and remains relatively weak.  Some contacts observed a stronger uptick in loan 
demand from smaller businesses. Contacts continued to note that the availa bility of commercial credit largely 
remained limited to the highest quality borrowers and that lenders are competing vigorously on rates and 
terms for such borrowers. Contacts reported robust  venture capital and private equity financing in the District. 
Companies backed by venture capital are receiving ample funding .  