              For use at 2:00 p.m., E. D.T. 
              Wednesday  
              July 29, 2009  
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   __________________ __ 
 
 
  
Current  
Economic  
Conditions  
  
By Federal Reserve District  
        
 
         
July 2009 
 
 
   
 
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS  
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS  
 
 
JULY 2009  
 
    
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
   
 
SUMMARY ……………………………………………………………….….…... i  
 
First District – Boston  …………………………………………………….……..I -1 
 
Second District – New York  …………………………………………….…….. II -1 
 
Third District – Philadelphia  …………………………………………………..III -1 
 
Fourth District – Cleveland  ……………………..…………………….…….... IV -1 
 
Fifth District – Richmond  ………………………………………………….….. V -1 
 
Sixth District – Atlanta  …………………………………………………….…. VI -1 
 
Seventh District – Chicago  ……………………………………………….…...VII -1 
 
Eighth District – St. Louis  …………..…………………………………..……VIII -1 
 
Ninth District – Minneapolis  …………….…………………………………… IX -1 
 
Tenth District – Kansas City  …………….…………………………………….. X -1 
 
Eleventh District – Dallas  ……………….………..…………………..………. XI -1 
 
Twelfth District – San Francisco  ..……….……………….………………….. XII -1 
 
 
    
i 
SUMMARY1
Reports from the 12 Federal Reserve District s suggest that economic activity continued to be 
weak going into the summer, but most  District s indicated that the pace of decline has moderated since the 
last report  or that activity has begun to st abilize, albeit at a low level.  Five Districts used the words 
“slow”, “subdued”, or “weak” to describe activity levels; Chicago and St. Louis reported that the pace of 
decline appeared to be moderating; and New York, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Franci sco pointed to 
signs of stabilization.  Minneapolis said the District  economy had contracted since the last report .    
Most Districts reported sluggish retail activity .  Cleveland, Richmond, and Minneapolis noted 
further declines in sales , although results were somewhat mixed or positive according to retailers in the 
Boston, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts .  Manufacturing activity showed 
some improvement in the Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City District s; while St. Louis an d Dallas 
reported some moderation of declines; Philadelphia and Minneapolis saw activity decrease; and most other Districts indicated that manufacturing activity continued at low levels .  Boston, Richmond, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported contractions in services industries.  Banking sectors in 
the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts experienced 
weaker demand for some categories of loans.  Residential real estate markets stayed soft in most Districts, 
although many  noted some signs of improvement .  By contrast, commercial real estate markets weakened 
further in recent months in two- thirds of the District s and remained slow in the others.   
Districts reported varied —but generally modest —price changes across sectors and products, with 
competitive pressures damping increases; however, Boston, Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas noted that some metals prices have increased in recent months.  Most District s indicated that labor 
markets were extremely soft, with minimal wage pressures, and cited the use of various methods of reducing compensation in addition to, or instead of, freezing or cutting wages.   
 
                                                      
1  Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and based on information collected on or before July 20, 2009.  
This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is 
not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.  
ii 
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
Consumer spending in the early summer remained  below prev ious-year levels in most Districts, 
as households continue d to be price  conscious.  Boston, Kansas City , and San Francisco experienced 
either modest sales increases or less negative sales results than in recent  reporting periods.  Philadelphia, 
Atlanta, St. Louis, New York, and Dallas cited flat or mixed sales, while sales in the remaining Districts 
remained soft.  Several District s note d that consumers focused on purchasing less expensive necessities, 
while sales of big ticket items languished.  Retailers  in Boston, Philadelphia , and Dallas characterized 
their outlook as cautious .   
Auto sales were mixed across the country.  Chicago, Minneapolis , and Kansas City saw modest 
increases in car sales, while New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland , and Atlanta continued to experience  
subdued  sales.  The exception was sales of used vehicles, which continued to be strong or were 
strengthening , according to Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City , and San Francisco.  
Travel and tourism declined in the majority  of Districts.  The San Francisco District observed a 
sharp  drop  in luxury and business travel, while tourism activity in New York City  was weak but stable 
since the last Beige Book  report .  Tourism c ontacts along the Atlantic coast  report ed that with the 
exception of July 4th holiday bookings, business was  gene rally weaker than a year ago.  Hotel r oom rates 
have declined in several Districts.   
Nonfinancial Services  
District reports regarding nonfinancial services industries were largely negative, although they 
included a few bright spots.  The Minneapolis, St. Louis, and Dallas District s indicate d that demand for 
professional services such as business support, architecture, and legal services continued to decline or 
remained soft.  By contrast , reports from the healthcare sector were largely positive, with the San 
Francisco, Minneapolis, and Richmond District s citing steady to increased demand for medical services, 
and the Atlanta, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas District s reporting hiring activity i n health care .  
Technology- related firms in the Kansas City District also reported heightened activity, especially in the 
iii 
clean technology and defense -driven aerospace markets.   Richmond and Minneapolis noted increased 
demand for information technology wor kers, and Atlanta saw hiring activity in the defense and aerospace 
industry.  Staffing industry c ontacts in numerous District s suggested a higher demand for temporary or 
part-time workers over permanent hires, and Atlanta noted that employers were taking advantage of a 
higher supply of skilled labor to improve the quality of their workforces.  
Nearly all District s reporting on transportation services observed continued weakness.  Freight 
transport respondents from the Atlanta, Dallas, and Cleveland Districts  noted that cargo volumes remain 
below year -earlier levels.  While Cleveland contacts report ed that competitive shipping rates are being 
maintained, trucking contacts from the Atlanta District  noted that an oversupply of trucks relative to 
demand has exert ed downward pressure on rates.  A few Districts also reported reduced airline traffic, 
especially amongst business travelers.   
Manufacturing  
Reports on the manufacturing sector remained subdued but were slightly more positive than in the 
previous  Beige Bo ok.  Many District s characterized manufacturing activity as remaining depressed but 
with selected signs of modest improvement.  Philadelphia, Minneapolis, Atlanta, and St. Louis reported 
decreased manufacturing activity; however, the latter two District s noted that the overall rate of decline 
abated in the latest reporting period.  Richmond and Kansas City reported rising manufacturing activity, albeit chiefly in nondurables industries.  Districts attributed some of the recent increases in production to replenishment of finished- goods or customer inventories.   
Chicago indicated that the quick resolutions of the Chrysler and GM bankruptcies have boosted 
business confidence, and that automakers were scheduling a pickup in production for July.  However, ongoing shutdowns of domestic auto plants have led to precariously low business volumes for parts suppliers, according to Chicago and St. Louis.  Steel production remained depressed but has leveled off or increased somewhat, according to Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis.  Similarly, Dallas observed that refineries increased their capacity utilization slightly over the past six weeks, but that overall industry 
iv 
conditions remain weak because of  low demand for fuels.  Various District  reports noted cancellations of  
orders for commercial aircraft and continued weak demand for most types of equipment and machinery .  
Among the positive developments in manufacturing, several Districts mentioned pickups in technology 
sectors, or cited strong or rising sales of military products or  pharmaceuticals.  
Comments on the near -term outlook varied across Districts, but on the whole they appear 
consistent with a forecast of modest and uneven recovery in manufacturing output beginning during  
roughl y the coming six to twelve months.  New York, Philadelphia, and Atlanta indicated that 
manufacturers have a generally positive or improved near -term outlook.  Dallas reported that high- tech 
manufacturers “are seeing some upside potential in their forecasts instead of just down- side risks,” but 
that construction- related manufacturers “expect no improvement in the near term.”  Boston indicated that 
many respondents expect continued sub- par revenue numbers for the remainder of the year, but “look 
forward to sl owly improving business in 2010,” while Cleveland and Kansas City reported that 
manufacturing contacts expect little or no change in demand through the end of 2009.   
Real Estate and Construction   
Commercial real estate leasing markets were described as e ither “weak” or “slow” in all 12 
Districts, although the severity of the downturn varied somewhat across District s.  While the office 
vacancy rate was up and rents were down in the Dallas District , market fundamentals there remained 
stronger than the national average.  Mar ket conditions in the New York District are significantly worse 
than one year ago , on average, but have been relatively stable in recent weeks and some parts of the 
District report improving fundamentals.  Office vacancy rates continued to climb in the Atlanta, Boston, 
Kansas City, Minneapolis, Philadelphia, Richmond, and  San Francisco Districts, as well as in Manhattan, 
resulting in sizable  leasing concessions and/or declines in asking rents.  Significant weakness in the retail 
leasing sec tor was reported for the Boston, Minneapolis, and New York District s, and industrial vacancy 
increased in the Atlanta, Dallas, Minneapolis, and St. Louis Districts.  Commercial real estate sales 
volume remained low, even “non- existent” in some District s, reportedly due to a combination of tight 
v 
credit and weak demand.  Construction activity was limited and/or declining in most District s, although 
exceptions were noted for health and institutional construction in the St. Louis District, public sector 
construction in the Chicago District , and the reconstruction of the World Trade Center in Manhattan.  
Tight credit was cited as an ongoing factor in the dearth of new construction activity.  The commercial 
real estate outlook was mixed, both within and across Districts.  Some contacts expect  commercial real 
estate market s to improve within two quarters and others predict further market deterioration for the 
remainder of 2009 and possibly through late 2010.   
Residential real estate markets in most Districts remain ed weak, but many reported signs of 
improvement.  The Minneapolis and San Francisco Districts cit ed large increases in home sales compared 
with 2008 levels , and other Districts reported r ising sales in some submarkets.  Of the areas that continued 
to exper ience year -over-year sales declines, all except St Louis—where sales were down steeply — also 
reported that the pace of decline was moderating.  In general, the low end of the market, especially entry -
level homes, continued to perform relatively well ; conta cts in the New York, Kansas City, and Dallas 
Districts attribute d this relative strength, at least in part, to the first -time homebuyer tax credit .  Condo 
sales were still far below year -before levels according to the Boston and New York reports.  In gener al, 
home prices continued to decline in most markets, although a number of District s saw possible signs of 
stabilization.  The Boston, Atlanta , and Chicago  Districts mentioned that the increasing number of 
foreclosure sales was exerting downward pressure o n home prices.  Residential construction reportedly 
remains quite slow, with the Chicago, Cleveland, and Kansas City District s noting that financing is 
difficult.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
The farm sector report ed better weather in much of the country in June and early July.  As a 
result, the supply and condition of many crops have improved, and prices have fallen.  In the Richmond and Atlanta District s, generally favorable weather has facilitated the vegetable, small grain or fruit 
harvest -- much of which is in good condition.  Similarly, contacts in several Districts including Chicago, 
vi 
St. Louis, and Kansas City indicate d that the size and condition of the corn, soybean and/or rice crops 
have improved and that farmers are now planning to harvest mo re acres than previously expected; thus, 
prices and profits are−and for the short term are expected to remain −down.  By contrast, the production 
of wheat or barley is expected to fall well below strong 2008 levels in the St. Louis  and Minneapolis 
Districts .  In the Dallas District, where a drought continues, much of the corn, cotton, and other crops 
were  described as “not worth harvesting,” and producers are collecting insurance.   
Livestock contacts in the Chicago, Kansas City , and Dallas District s report that prices for dairy, 
hogs , and cattle have fallen by more than operating costs and some ranchers are liquidating herds.  In the 
Chicago District, livestock operations have reportedly lost their cash cushion and have been unable to get 
financing; contacts  in Dallas, where the ongoing drought has destroyed forage, also note concerns about 
ranchers’ cash flow .   
With oil prices up to $70 per barrel in the first half of 2009 but recently trending down, oil 
production was reportedly flat in June and early July  in the Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Kansas City 
Districts and up slightly in Dallas and San Francisco.  Contacts in Atlanta indicate that the number of rigs 
operating in the Gulf of Mexico had fallen by half year over year while in Dallas the number of wor king 
rigs was up slightly.  Natural gas prices continue to fall, discouraging drilling in the Kansas City, Dallas, 
and San Francisco District s.  Kansas City energy producers report financial strains and are cutting 
headcounts selectively , while contacts in  Dallas observe much excess capacity and weak demand for 
energy services.  In response to weak demand from the utilities, coal prices in the Cleveland District  have 
fallen 50 percent since early 2009, and coal production, jobs and hours are down; capital s pending has 
fallen to minimum maintenance levels.  In Minneapolis, by contrast, new wind projects have been 
announced.   
Banking and Financial Services  
In most reporting Districts , overall lending activity was stable or weakened further for most loan 
categories .  In contrast, Philadelphia reported a slight increase in business, consumer, and residential real 
estate lending.  As businesses remained pessimistic and reluctant to borrow, demand for commercial and 
vii 
industrial loans continued to fall or stay weak in the New York, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts.  Consumer loan demand decreased in  New York, St. Louis, Kansas 
City, and San Francisco, stabilized at a low level in Chicago and Dallas, and  was steady to up in 
Cleveland.  
Residential real estate lending  decreased  in New York, Richmond, and St. Louis.  Dallas reported 
steady but low outsta nding mortgage volumes , while Kansas City noted that the rise in mortgage loans  
slowed.  Refinancing activity fell dramatically in Richmond, decreased in New York and Cleveland, and 
maintained its pace in Dallas.  Bankers in the New York District  indicated  no change in delinquency rates 
in all loan categories except residential mortgages, while Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco reported 
rising delinquencies on loans linked to real estate .   
Banks continued to tighten credit standards in the New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco District s; and some have stepped up the requirements for the 
commercial real estate category , in particular , due to concern over declining loan quality.  Meanwhile, 
Cleveland and Atlanta reported that higher credit standards remained in place, with no change expected in 
the near term .  Credit quality deteriorated in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco, 
while  loan quality exceeded expectations in Chicago and remained st eady in Richmond.   
Employment, Wages, and Prices  
All District s indicated that labor markets remain slack, with most sectors either reducing jobs or 
holding them steady  and aggregate employment continuing to decline, on net .  However, Boston, 
Cleveland, Ri chmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis noted selective hiring, including 
attempts by some firms to take advantage of layoffs elsewhere to pick up experienced talent .  Richmond, 
Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas cited moderation in the pace of ma nufacturing employment decline since 
the last report , and New York noted some signs of labor market stabilization .  But Atlanta reported further 
deterioration in labor market conditions and additional job cuts already planned for coming months.  
The weakness of labor markets has virtually eliminated upward wage pressure, and wages and 
compensation are steady or falling in most District s; however, Boston cited some manufacturing and 
viii 
business services firms raising pay selectively , and Minneapolis said wage in creases were moderate.  
Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco cited a range of methods firms are 
using to limit compensation, includi ng cutting or freezing wages or  benefit contributions, deferral of 
future salary increases, trimm ing bonuses and travel allowances, reducing hours, temporary shutdowns, 
periodic furloughs, and unpaid vacations.   
Most Districts reported that upward price pressures were minimal.  Manufacturers in the Boston, 
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas District s indicated that most materials costs 
were flat or down; however, several Districts mentioned price increases for some metals, petrochemicals, and building mat erials .  While the Boston, New York, and Kansas City reports say a few firms are 
making modest price increases stick, selling prices of most manufacturers and retailers were reportedly held down by competitive pressures.  Services firms have increased discounting and/or cut fees, according to contacts in Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco, while Richmond indicated price increases for services were  mild.   
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON  
 Business activity in the First District continues to be slow . Most retail contacts are optimistic that 
they are past the bottom, while manufacturers consider business to be bouncing along it, at best . While 
activity at consulting and advertising firms seems to be leveling out , commercial real estate has weakened 
further, reflecting continuing cuts in office employment, among other factors ; residential real estate 
markets remain weak . Many respondents co ntinue to reduce headcount and cut benefits , if not pay. Price 
changes are varied.  Few contacts expect business to pick up before 2010.  
Retail  
Contacted retailers in the First District report mixed sales results for the early summer months , 
although the majority of respondents report less negative or more positive year -over-year sales changes 
than in recent  report s. Family restaurants are said to be an exception, with some deterioration in sales .  
Retailers  continue to manage inventory levels  carefully . Capital spending is varied , with some 
contacts looking for  or taking advantage of  expansion opportunities. The majority of contacted retailers 
say their headcounts are currently stable, although several mention picking up  talent when possible , as 
other firm s shed workers. Selling p rices are  mostly stable, but a few retailers report that they are starting 
to observe some vendor price increases. Overall, most First District retailers expect sales growth to 
remain modest, but many  say they are cautiously optimistic about being “ past the bottom.”    
Manufacturing and Related Services  
Almost all m anufactur ing and related services contacts headquartered in the First District report that 
business remained weak in the second quarter. Many c ustomers we re said to be delaying or even 
canceling their orders for equipment and instruments, causing sales of nondefense capital goods to fall at double -digit rates from year -earlier . A few contacts had rising equipment sales to the military or to parts 
of the residential construction market year -over-year. Biopharmaceutical and other selected healthcare 
niches were the only additional bright spots mentioned . Respondents indicate that foreign sales varied by 
geography but were mostly weak or down, and that currency  movements depressed dollar -denominated 
revenues. Some contacts detected order or sales upticks for selected products in the second quarter, but the consensus appears to be that volumes remain low, business is merely “bouncing along the bottom,” and “no sustainable green shoots” have emerged. Still, a few express relief that the economy is no longer 
in a “free fall” and customers are “getting their bearings.”  
Manufacturers say that materials costs are flat to down compared to a year ago . However, costs for 
petroleum derivatives and some steel products are beginning to creep up. With the exception of 
biopharmaceuticals, most contacts cite  downward pressure on selling prices, but the extent to which this 
is translating into actual reductions varies. For example, some companies that increased prices 2  percent  
to 3 percent in early 2009 indicate that the higher prices are sticking . Others are giving concessions to 
their major customers or are dropping prices for non- specialty products.  
 About one -quarter of  the contacted manufacturers and related services providers are holding their 
domestic headcounts steady . Most of the remaining firms continue to cut U.S. employment, either 
selectively or through layoffs and facility closures . Nonetheless, several respond ents mention that they are 
actively hiring specialized scientific and engineering personnel . About two -thirds of the firms have raised 
 
I - 2 
employee pay this year, usually in the range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent . In some cases, however, these 
firms have also  reduced benefits, frozen pay for selected business units, or announced that they will be 
deferring  future pay increases. The remaining one -third or so have reduced and/or frozen employee pay, 
and/or have enacted temporary shutdowns or unpaid vacations . 
The majority of responding firms have cut capital spending from last year’s levels, in some cases 
dramatically . Some companies are holding expenditures steady because of commitments to restructuring-  
or technology- related projects. Relatively few respondents  are increasing production capacity . Capital 
spending plans generally center on new product development, technology upgrades, or cost reduction. 
Some contacts add that while bank credit remains expensive, financial market conditions have improved.   
Most ma nufacturers and related services providers appear resigned to slower growth or outright 
declines in revenues year-over-year through late 2009. While many respondents look forward to slowly 
improving business in 2010, some mention that factors such as struc tural shifts in the automotive and 
financial services industries are likely to delay  a full recovery in business until sometime after next year .  
Selected Business Services 
Most First District advertising and consulting contacts report stable or slightly higher demand in 
the second quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter but year -over-year declines from 8  percent  to 42 
percent. Losses associated with mergers or acquisitions of large clients seen in the beginning of the year 
have not been offset with new demand . Demand from the healthcare sector is weakening , chiefly due to 
uncertainty about the upcoming healthcare reform.  
All contacted advertising and consulting firms report price pressure and some are facing 
“extremely aggressive” price- cutting stra tegies from competitors. Some firms have offered 15 percent to 
20 percent discounts to core clients. Several respondents have reduced personnel costs,  cutting bonuses up 
to 50 percent, deferring compensation,  or laying off workers . By contrast , a few compa nies increased 
compensation by 2 percent  to 3 percent  in April 2009.  Although wages and salaries will be held stable, a 
couple of  respondents expect  to increase  total compensation s omewhat in the second half of the year. 
Headcounts in most contacted firms were stable in the second quarter, although a few companies laid off 
from 10 percent  to 25 percent of their workforce. Several contacted firms will reduce employment in the 
second half of the year either through layoffs or attrition.  
Most respondents expec t the third quarter to be similar to the second . Demand in 2009 is 
projected to  decline about  4 percent to 10 percent, and sales should start to increase  in 2010. Major risks 
to this outlook are  healthcare reform, the state of the regional economy , and higher jobless rates.  
Commercial Real Estate  
  Sentiment i s mostly negative among commercial real estate contacts this period . Throughout the 
region, vacancy rates rose again across all commercial property types as sublease supply continues  to 
expand. In Boston, office vacancy downtown i s estimated at roughly 15 percent . While this figure is the 
same as that reported last time, the perception is that the number is on the rise. The suburban vacancy rate 
is reportedly higher, but estimates range from the  upper teens to as high as 24 percent (the figure reported 
last time) . In downtown Providence, office vacancy stands at roughly 18 percent, and suburban office 
vacancy climbed from 19 percent in December to close to 22 percent currently . The industrial mar ket in 
 
I - 3 
Rhode Island continued to perform relatively well, with vacancy rates still below 10 percent . Office 
vacancy also rose in Hartford . Rents are said to be falling dramatically in Greater Boston . One Boston 
contact estimates that asking rents for offic e space in June 2009 fell 30 percent to  40 perc ent on a year -
over-year basis. Retail rents in Greater Boston  were  also “clobbered,” with exact figures not cited . Year -
over-year rent declines have been less steep in Rhode Island, about 6 percent, with all o f the declines 
occurring in the past six months . In Greater Hartford, rents are reportedly holding steady, but landlords 
are offering significant leasing concessions . Across the board, leasing volume remains  very low, as 
tenants refrain from making commitm ents beyond a one -month horizon.  
Sales transaction volume remained very light across all markets, as large gaps persisted between 
bid and ask prices and credit remain s tight. While underwriting standards are still quite stringent, 
commercial real estate financing continues to be available from small and medium -sized banks with 
healthy balance sheets, and through the public equity (REIT) market, which has seen increased activity  in 
recent months. Two contacts noted the rising tide of loan delinquencies and maturities on properties that 
are “underwater.”  One contact reports that special servicers for securitized commercial loans are 
overwhelmed by the volume of problem loans, the  result being that de facto loan extensions are being 
granted . Across all types of lenders, including commercial banks, loan extensions of one to three years 
have become increasingly common, as lenders hope that equity positions will improve over that hori zon. 
Other lenders are restructuring debt at deep discounts, forestalling  steeper  losses. Ideally, lenders would 
prefer that borrowers put in additional equity, but most are short on cash.  
Contacts expect fundamentals to continue to deteriorate for at lea st one more quarter, but 
expectations for the timing of the recovery vary from three to twelve months . Consistent with recent 
developments, future declines in rents and property values are expected to be greatest for Boston and less severe in other markets that saw smaller run -ups in prices during the boom . The pace of write -downs by 
commercial lenders is expected to accelerate over the next twelve months .  
Residential Real Estate  
Residential real estate market s in New England remained sluggish in May and i nto June, although 
contacts cite some positive signs . Massachusetts and Connecticut saw May home sales drops of 15 
percent and 19 percent, respectively, from  May 2008. Rhode Island and Maine had more moderate single -
digit year -over-year home sales declines in May . In June, Boston area home sales declined only 5 percent 
year-over-year. In New Hampshire, home sales were flat in June compared to the year before.  Condo 
sales were still far below 2008 levels in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.  
The median home price fell about 12 percent year -over-year for most states in the region , but 
dropped 25 percent in Rhode Island in May  from a year earlier . Another exception was the G reater 
Boston area, where the median home price decreased only 2 percent  year -over-year in June.  
 Distressed properties make  up a much larger share of the homes being sold this year than last, 
especially in Rhode Island, with negative effects on median price s. However, inventory continues to 
decline in some areas, reducing ex cess supply . Several contacts complained about the  Home Valuation 
Code of Conduct, which they argue is leading to under -appraisals by appraisal management companies 
lacking sufficient experience in local housing market s.  
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT --NEW YORK  
The Second District’s economy has shown more  signs of stabilizing in recent weeks , though, on 
balance, economic activity may still be contracting .  The labor market remains exceptionally weak  but 
with some s igns of leveling off.  Manufacturing sector contacts report stable conditions and are generally 
optimis tic about the near -term outlook.  Retailers indicate that sales were steady in June and early July 
while continuing  to run well below 2008 levels.  Consum er confidence was mixed but generally steady at 
a low level in June .  Tourism activity in New  York City has also been  sluggish but little changed  since the 
last report, as have been commercial real estate markets .  Housing markets have shown some signs of 
stabilizing in northern New Jersey and upstate New York but continued to deteriorate in New York City 
and especially in Manhattan.  Finally, b ankers report  a downturn in loan d emand —particularly from the 
household sector —as well as ongoing tightening in cr edit standards and steady to higher delinquency 
rates.  
Consumer Spending  
Retail sales were reported to be on or somewhat below plan in June  but still down considerably 
from a year earlier , with selling prices holding fairly steady .  Retail sales in New Yo rk City, which had 
been lagging the rest of the region, reportedly picked up in June and early July but remain 8- 10 percent 
below comparable 2008 levels.  Contacts in western New York State note that Canadian customer traffic 
has remained weak and that sal es have been stable but below plan and still down from 5 percent to 15 
percent from a year earlier.  One major chain indicates that, in general, moderate price line merchandise 
has been selling better than either premium lines or lower -priced lines.  Overa ll, inventories are said to be 
at favorable levels, and selling prices remain  stable, though a number of contacts indicate that low 
inventory levels have enabled them to be a bit less promotional than in recent months.  Auto dealers in upstate New York rep ort that sales continue to run 20- 30 percent lower than a year ago —less steeply than 
in other parts of the country —though the pace of decline has moderated since the last report.  Tight credit 
 
 II-2 
continues to be a major issue , particularly for dealers who rel y on floor plan loans to finance their 
inventories.  
Consumer confidence was mixed in June but at low levels.  The Conference Board reports that 
confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa), rose modestly in June , reaching its  
highest level in over a year, though still quite low by historical standards .  Siena College reports that 
consumer confidence among New York State residents retreated in June, after rising in April and May.   
Tourism activity in New York City has been weak but stable since the last report.  Manhattan hotels 
report that revenues continued to run 35- 40 percent below a year ago in June; occupancy rates remained 
in the mid -80s in June —down just 4- 5 percentage points from a year earlier —but room rates were down 
roughly 30 percent.  Broadway theaters report that attendance weakened further since the last report and 
was down more than 10 percent  from a year earlier; however, a 15  percent jump in average ticket prices 
starting in late May has boosted total revenue modera tely ahead of year -ago levels.  
Construction and Real Estate  
Commercial real estate markets in the District were , on balance, steady since the last report .  
Manhattan ’s office vacancy rate was steady in June but rose modestly during the second quarter; aski ng 
rents on Class A properties continued to slip and remained mo re than 15 percent lower than a year earlier . 
 There are reported to be more than 13 million square feet of space (2½ percent of the overall market) 
currently under construction, partly relate d to the rebuilding of the World Trade Center.  Around the 
District, office vacancy rates have also risen in Northern New Jersey, as well as in the Rochester metro 
area; h owever, vacancy rates are reported to be lower than a year ago in the Long Island, Buffalo, 
Syracuse and Albany areas, and steady in Westchester and southwestern Connecticut.  The office -building 
sales market is reported to remain exceptionally weak throughout the District.  
Retail real estate markets are mixed: in Manhattan, the rental vacancy rate fell below 3 percent at 
mid-year, though asking rents are down roughly 6 percent from a year ago; in northern New Jersey, 
 
 II-3 
however, vacancy rates have risen by a full percentage point over the past year, and rents are down 
marginally. Retail real estate markets in upstate New York have been steady, on balance.  Industrial 
markets have been mixed: vacancy rates have climbed in northern New Jersey and metropolitan Rochester 
but have eased in the Buffalo and Westchester markets.   
Housing markets rem ained soft throughout most of the District, though there were signs of 
stabilization in a number of areas.  Contacts in northern New Jersey indicate that the market has a somewhat more positive tone than in recent months: prices , though still down about 15 percent over the 
year,  appear to have stabilized somewhat and volume has picked up moderately.  There is still reported to 
be a moderate degree of new development of multi -family buildings along the Hudson waterfront, but 
otherwise new construction activi ty is described as moribund. New construction in the Buffalo- Niagara 
Falls area was reported to be exceptionally slow in April and May but picked up in June ; while the high 
end of the market has weakened somewhat, s ales activity at the low end ($150,000 and under) has 
reportedly been fairly brisk, with multiple bids, sometimes above the asking price.  This  strength was 
largely attributed to the $8,000 tax credit for first -time homebuyers.  Overall, home prices have held 
relatively steady  in western New York  State .   
New York City’s market, however, has shown further signs of deteriorating, in both the sales and 
rental markets.  In the second quarter, t he median sales price for existing co -ops and condos in Manhattan 
reportedly fell 26  percent  from a year ear lier, while the number of sales transactions fell 50 percent; the 
inventory (number of units listed) was up 9%, though there is reported to be a substantial “shadow” 
inventory of new apartments —condo units that are unsold but not yet listed.  Brooklyn’s and Queens’ 
markets have also slackened in the second quarter, with median prices of existing apartments reported to 
be down 15 to 17 percent  from a year earlier , and the number of transactions down roughly 30 percent . 
The city’s rental market has also slack ened further, with asking rents reported to be down 8- 12 percent 
over the past year, and actual rents off more than 17 percent, on a per square foot basis. Also, landlords 
 
 II-4 
are increasingly offering concessions —free rent for one or more months —in slack neig hborhoods.    
Other B usiness Activity  
A leading New York City employment agency  notes that the labor market, though still 
exceptionally slack, has shown some  signs of stabilizing since the last report—there continues to be very 
little hiring activity from the financial sector, but hiring has reportedly picked up somewhat in the legal 
industry.  Still, there is reported to be a huge pool of candidates and few opportunities overall.  More 
broadly, both manufacturers and firms in other sectors generally report  that they are still reducing 
employment, on net.  Manufacturing contacts in the District report that business activity has leveled off  
since the last report, but n on-manufacturing contacts overall indicate that conditions have weakened .  
Still, a large pr oportion of both groups say they are optimistic about the business outlook.  Firms across 
most sectors report moderate increases in prices paid but modest declines in prices received.  
Financial Developments  
Small to medium -sized b anks report  weakening loan  demand across all categories , but most 
notably in the residential mortgage and consumer loan categories , where 56 percent of those surveyed 
report a decrease in demand .  A pullback is also reported in refinancing activity.  For all loan categories, 
respondents indicate continued tightening of credit standards, with no banker report ing an easing of 
standards.  Banker s report an increase in the spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan 
categories —most widely in the commercial mortgage loan categ ory.  There were also widespread 
increases noted in deposit rates.  Finally, b ankers indicate no change in delinquency rates for all loan 
categories except residential mortgages, where 26  percent  of bankers report increase s in delinquency rates 
and 15 percent report decreases.   
III - 1 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA  
 
 Economic conditions in the Third District remained subdued i n July . Manufacturers, on 
balance, reported declines in shipments and new orders. Retailers gave mixed reports , although 
sales were not strong overall . Motor vehicl e dealers  indicated that sales of new vehicles were 
slow. Bank loan volume has increased slightly. C redit quality has continued to deteriorate . 
Residential real estate sales increased in June and July  as pent -up demand and seasonal factors 
boosted sales, a ccording to local real estate agents, but the sales rate remained below the year -
ago pace.  Nonresidential  real estate investment , leasing, and construction activity continued to be 
slow.  Business firms in the region r eport ed level or falling input costs and output prices  in Jul y. 
The outlook in the Third District business community was slightly more positive in July 
than at the time of the previous Beige Book, although most contacts see little prospect of strong 
improvement in the immediate future . Manufa cturers f orecast a rise in shipments and orders 
during the next six months . Retailers expect  sales to gain strength slowly , but a uto dealers expect 
sales to remain slow for the rest of the year . Bankers anticipate  demand for credit to remain 
limited until ov erall economic conditions improve, and they expect further weakening in credit 
quality as well . Residential real estate contacts believe housing demand is stabilizing, although 
they say a substantial increase in sales is not imminent.  Contacts in nonreside ntial real estate 
expect leasing and  purchase activity to remain weak during the rest of this year and perhaps 
move up early next year.  
 
Manufacturing  
Third District manufacturers  reported declines in shipments and new orders, on balance, 
from June to July . A bit more than one -fourth  of the manufacturers surveyed noted de creases in 
both measures , and slightly less than one -fourth  reported in creases . Demand remains weak for 
the products of most of the  District’s major manufacturing sectors , although producer s of some 
industrial materials and products noted slight increases in orders from June to July.  
The outlook among Third District manufactur ers is positive . Among firms polled in Jul y, 
around one -half expect  new orders and shipments to increase during the next six months ; less 
than one-tenth  expect decreases . However, several of the manufacturers surveyed in July said 
they expect the pickup in business to be uneven. Typical comments were that that markets are 
III - 2 
mixed with “areas of strength and areas of weakne ss,” and that improvement is likely to  be 
“slight” or “spotty .”  
 
Consumer Spending  
Third District r etailers gave mixed reports on sales in June and July, but on balance sales 
were not strong . Discount  stores continued to have better results than other stores. Business at 
restaurants, hotels, and other leisure and hospitality establishments remained slow. Retailers said consumer confidence continues to be fragile, limiting consumers’ willingness to spend. The 
remark of one retailer, that “Customers are keep ing a more watchful eye on how they spend their 
money,” was seconded by many other merchants. More positively, home improvement 
contractors reported fairly good increases in demand for weatherization and energy -efficiency 
products and home alterations as c onsumers take advantage of federal tax credits for these items. 
Looking ahead, r etailers are apprehensive that consumer caution will extend into the back -to-
school shopping period, although some believe a slow trend toward strengthening sales could begin w hen there is evidence that the recession is bottoming out. 
Third District a uto dealers reported that sales of new vehicles remained slow in July but 
sales of used vehicles  have increased recently . Dealers continue to cope with closings and 
consolidations, and several are emphasizing vehicle servicing in order to maintain income. Looking ahead, dealers said a return of consumer confidence is a prerequisite for a solid increase 
in demand for new vehicles . 
 
Finance  
Total outstanding loan volume at Third Distri ct banks has been moving up very slowly  in 
recent weeks , according to bankers contacted for this report. There ha ve been slight gains in 
consumer, business, and residential real estate lending. Most of the bankers contacted for this report said the slownes s in loan growth was a result of restrained loan demand, although some 
noted that they were limiting business lending, especially in the retail, hospitality, and multi-family residential sectors.  Nevertheless, banks in the District do not appear to have im posed 
overall lending restrictions, and—as one banker said —“good credits are still getting money.” 
Most of the banks contacted in July  said that credit quality continued to deteriorate for all 
categories of lending . Some lending institutions noted increased losses on defaulted mortgages  as 
III - 3 
a result of declines in house prices . Bankers generally expect  demand for credit to remain slack  
in the near term, and some said a significant upturn in lending will not occur until there are solid 
indications of overall improvement in economic conditions . 
Non-depository lenders in the District said financing remains tight, especially for 
commercial real estate. Th ey noted that many borrowers facing loan rollovers are having 
difficulty replacing loans. Contacts in secondar y debt markets are generally of the opinion that 
large -scale financial restructuring over an extended period will be required to counter the decline 
in securitization the has occurred since the onset of the current recession.  
 
Real Estate and Construction  
Residential real estate activity in the Third District in June and July remained well below 
the level of a year ago, although r esidential real estate contacts reported a noticeable pickup from 
earlier months of the year. According to real estate agents th e increase is partly seasonal and 
partly the effect of “pent -up demand” rebounding from the very low pace of sales over the past 
winter. Real estate agents generally indicated that the improvement in sales has been  mainly for 
relatively lower -priced houses . They say a wider upturn in sales will depend on significant 
improvement in consumer confidence and employment. Real  estate agents said price declines 
appear to be easing, although in some parts of the District prices continued to drop substantially 
compa red with a year ago.   
Nonresidential real estate firms indicated that leasing and purchase activity has remained 
slow. Vacancy rates have risen in office , industrial , and retail buildings .  Rents have moved 
down and landlord concessions have increased. Se veral contacts echoed the comment of one who 
said, “ The balance of power has moved back toward the tenant.”  Contacts also indicated that 
financing for commercial construction and investment remained very difficult. C ontacts expect 
nonresidential real estate leasing and construction activity to remain weak for the next two 
quarters, at least , but s everal noted that the lack of new buildings coming on line this year could 
move markets closer to balance in early 2010.  
 Prices  
Reports on input costs and output prices indicate mostly steady or falling prices since the 
last Beige Book. Manufacturing firms note d decreases  for most of the material s they use  as well 
III - 4 
as the products they make . Retailers indicated that their cost of goods has been about steady , and 
they have kept selling prices nearly level . Several contacts in service industries, especially those  
related to real estate and construction, said they have reduced fees recently.  
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
The economy in the Fourth District has shown signs of stabilizing  since our last report , 
though activity remains sluggish.  Reports from factories indicate d that production stabilize d at 
low levels , with manufacturers expect ing little change in demand  during the upcoming months .  
New home construction remains  weak , while  non- residential  building  activity was mixed .  Credit 
availability  continues to be an issue for  residential and  commercial contractors .  Sales by District 
retailers  were flat to slightly down .  New motor vehicle sales  remained weak, whereas  purchases 
of used vehicles  were relatively strong .  Coal  production fell , with little change  noted in oil and 
gas output .  Freight transport volum e remains  at low levels .  Commercial and industrial loan  
activity  was mixed.   Refinancing applications for resident ial mortgages have  slowed , though 
other types of consumer lending were  generally  characterized as stable.  Core deposits increased  
across the District .    
Employment  declines were reported  in manufacturing, regional banking , and  coal  
mining .  Staffing firms  noted  a fall -off in  job openings , with the exception of healthcare and call 
centers.   Given the weak labor market , wage pressures  are conta ined.  We heard widespread 
reports of increased prices for metals and residential construction materials.   Capital spending  
was frozen or  trimmed back  to mainly critical maintenance projects .   
Manufacturing.   Reports from  District factories  show ed that production stabilized at low 
levels  in June and early July .  Any increases  cited  were attributed to a slight improvement in 
market demand or seasonal factors.  On a y ear-over-year basis,  factory  output was  sharply  lower .  
Manufacturers  expect  little change  in demand during the upcoming months.   Steel producers and 
service centers reported  that the sharp decline in shipping volume has leveled off, but volume 
remains  at depressed  levels .  The only end market  showing  growth  was defense.  Half of our 
steel respondents  anticipate  a slight pick up through the third quarter ; nevertheless , the industry  is 
not expecting a substantial turnaround through year’s end.  District auto production rose 
modestly  during June  on a month- over-month basis  due to an increase i n foreign nameplate 
output.  On a year -over-year basis, both domesti c makers and foreign name plates experienced a 
sharp  drop in production.       
Capacity utilization  has changed little  since our last report, with most  contacts  saying that 
it is well  below historic norms.  C apital  budgets remain frozen  or have been  severely curtailed .  
Capital  expenditures are expected  to stay at depressed  levels  through the remainder of 2009.  We 
heard widespread reports of an uptick in metals prices, which is puttin g some upward pressure on 
product pricing .  A majority of our respondents made further reductions in payroll costs  through 
IV - 2  
layoffs, wage cuts, and reductions in production hours .  Predictably, w age pressures are 
contained .  
Real Estate .  The residential construction industry remains weak .  Although most 
builders  continued to experience  a slight increase in sales , their outlook is less optimistic  than in 
the second quarter .  Foot and Internet traffic was  characterized as  stable o r declining , and sales 
trends  are expected  to remain at current levels  or fall off slightly through  year’s end.   Builders  
reported that  a recovery in the housing industry is being impeded by  financing  difficulties 
(contractors and home buyers) , low appraisal values , and limiting  of tax credits to first -time 
buyers .  Discounting has been reduced significantly.  We heard widespread reports of increased 
prices for lumber, s hingles, and concrete; these  were attributed to seasonal factors.  G eneral 
contractors  continue to operate with  skeleton crews , and subcontractors are readily available at  
very competitive prices.  
Reports on nonresidential construction activity were mixed, with some improvement seen 
by contractor s participating in public works and education projects.   We heard s everal reports of 
a slight pick up in backlog s and inquiries.  All of our  respondents said that business has dropped 
below its level a year ago .  Looking forward  to 2010, half of our contacts expect construction 
activity will be very weak.  Although a few  contractors anticipate some growth  next year , they 
do not expect a return to 2008 levels .  We  continued to hear numerous accounts  of difficulties in 
obtaining financing  for private -sector projects .  Any increases  cited  in construction materials 
prices  were attributed to seasonal factors and the recent run -up in oil prices.  Apart from seasonal 
help, only two general contractors noted that they have hired a few workers due to increased 
project work.  Subcontractors  are readily available at very co mpetitive rates.   
Consumer Spending .  June  sales for District retailers were  flat to slightly down on a 
month- over-month basis .  Further, consumers continue d to focus on purchasing less expensive 
necessities.  M ost retailers expect little change during th e third quarter, with some pick -up 
toward year’s end.  On balance,  vendor and ret ail pricing has been stable.  Accounts  from auto 
dealers  indicated  that new vehicle sales  remained weak  for the most part  during  June and were  
down sharply on a year -over-year basis.   However, reports showed considerable  difference s 
across brands in sales and dealer inventories .  Purchases of  used vehicles  remain relatively 
strong, which is putting  some  upward pressure on prices  at auction s and dealer lots .  Most 
dealers  are uncertain about future sales  due to weak economic activity , stringent credit conditions  
(floor plan and buyer) , and the  fallout fro m the Chrysler and GM bankruptcies .  On balance, 
there has been little change in sta ffing levels at retailers .  Capital expenditures  by retailers  remain 
IV - 3  
on plan but  have  been trimmed back  from 2008 levels.   
Banking.   Commercial and industrial (C&I)  loan demand is decidedly mixed .  Regional 
banks reported declining loan demand and balances, whi le community bankers  commented that 
their C&I pipelines are filling up, in part because they are attracting business from  large regional 
banks .  Spreads on business loans are  steady  to increasing .  On the consumer side, loan demand 
was characterized as stable  to up slightly, with steady interest rates.   A few  community bankers 
told us that  indirect  lending i s doing very well.  Applications for refin ancing residential 
mortgages have  slowed .  Core deposits  increased  across the District.   Credit quality deteriorated 
somewhat on the consumer and business sides.  D elinquencies  at many banks continue d to rise , 
particularly for commercial and residential real estate loans.   Higher lending standards remain 
firmly in place, with no easing expec ted.  Several  bankers expect credit to tighten further going 
forward.   Staffing levels at  a few  regional banks are being reduced due to mergers and a 
contraction  of specific  business lines.  In contrast, some community banks are hiring ahead of 
foreseeable growth.   
Energy.   Coal executives  reported  continuing production declines , which they attributed 
to weakening demand from electric utilities .  One executive noted that contract prices for coal 
have  dropped 50 percent since the beginning of the year.  Little change in oil and ga s production 
was reported, though drilling activity ha s fallen off  substantially in some  regions.  Spot prices for 
natural gas  and oil  are trending downward.  For the most part, the costs of  production equipment 
and materials  have fallen .  Capital spending  by coal producers  has been cut  back and is restricted 
to some critical maintenance  projects, while expenditures  by oil and gas producers  remain as 
projected .  Employment levels in the oil and gas industry were  largely  stable, al though coal 
executives reported workforce  reductions and cuts in overtime .    
Transportation.  Freight transport executives reported that  shipping volume remains at 
low levels  and is down substantially on a year -over-year basis  across  all market segments.  Any 
pickup cited was attributed to seasonal factors or  competitors exiting the market.   A majority of 
our contacts  expect  activity to stay at current  levels through year’s end.  Nevertheless, a few 
executives anticipate that volu me w ill begin to gradually pickup during the third quarter  but 
remain  well  below 2008 levels .  Shipping rates remain very  competi tive, and capital spending is  
restricted to replacement only.   On the labor front , we heard a few reports of wage cuts or freezes  
and minimal hiring  for spot shortages.  
V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT –RICHMOND 
 Overview . On balance, economic conditions in the Fifth District remained weak  in June 
and early July . Retail and services firm revenues continued to shrink, and contacts reported 
falling wages and steady or declining employment lev els. Price growth in the service sector was 
slow. Commercial real estate activity softened further, with declining  rents, increased 
concessions, and rising  vacancy rates in some markets.  Commercial lending activity continued to 
decline as loan demand remai ned subdued and  some institutions reported tightened credit 
standards. Meanwhile, residential real estate contacts gave mixed reports about housing activity . 
Residential lending slowed as the slight increase in purchase loans was offset  by a  drop in 
demand  for refinances.  On a brighter note , manufacturing activity continued to strengthen  in 
recent weeks as contacts reported increased shipments, new orders, and capacity utilization, and a 
moderation in the employment decline. 
 Retail . Retail sales generally contracted in recent weeks  as retailers  reduced their 
inventories and shopper traffic remained down. The manager at a chain department store located outside the Washington, D.C., beltway observed retailers “fighting for a little piece of what money is out there.”  On the other hand, a grocer in southwest Virginia reported increased foot 
traffic, although “customers are not buying as much per transaction either in items or in dollar terms.” Big -ticket sales languished , according to most contacts. Sales of dom estically produced 
vehicles generally remained in the doldrums, although dealers of automobiles and light trucks told us that sales of foreign nameplates were soft to “pretty good,” and a  few building supply 
establishments in coastal South Carolina  reporte d an uptick in sales. M any retail merchants cut 
payrolls, although some fill ed permanent or temporary  vacancies . Growth in retail prices slowed 
somewhat in recent weeks, while average retail wages fell .  
 Services . Contacts at services firms reported that revenues declined since our last report, 
albeit at a slower pace. A financial services executive noted that people were more cautious and holding more cash than usual . According to a Virginia web -based business owner, “ Projects 
either aren’t starting or ar e running out of money.”  Consumers also cut back. The business 
manager at a fitness organization in central North Carolina said membership and class revenues fell in recent weeks . In contrast, executives at hospitals and healthcare systems reported steady  
demand for their services . An executive at a hospital in central North Carolina said the hospital 
V-2  
was starting to see more un employed patients, though most we re covered by COBRA . Contacts 
generally noted either steady or declining employment. Average wages at services firms 
continued to shrink while pr ice growth at services  businesses was mild .  
 Manufacturing . District manufacturing activity continued to strengthen in June and the 
first half of July . Contacts reported increases in shipments, new orders, c apacity utilization and 
the average workweek, while noting that the decline in employment had moderated considerably . 
Demand  was notably stronger for apparel, chemicals, food, printing and publishing, rubber and 
plastics, and textile manufacturers . A spark  plug producer in West Virginia observed a jump in 
orders  and noted that, “customer forecasts going out 3 to 4 months are showing a steady 
increase.” A contact at a chemical plant in South Carolina reported  considerable growth in orders 
from China, India, and other East Asian markets, while a textile manufacturer in North Carolina observed that, “W e passed the eye of the storm about four weeks  ago.” Contacts indicated that 
both raw materials and finished goods prices grew more slowly. 
 Finance . Residential lending activity slowed a bit in June and early July across the Fifth 
District. Contacts reported a slight increase in purchase loans; however, the uptick was not 
enough to offset a  “dramatic” fall in demand for refinances . First -time purchases  and 
convent ional mortgages reportedly composed the bulk of activity , while contacts noted little 
demand for jumbo loans . Credit standards tightened a bit to adhere to changes in Freddie, Fannie, 
and FHA guidelines, but lenders reported no internal changes. 
On the com mercial side, lending activity continued to decline, with demand for loans 
“unseasonably low.”  Contacts reported an uptick in loan prices , especially for mid -grade 
borrowers . Credit standards were unchanged at some institutions, while others reported furt her 
tightening . Changes included requiring pre -existing depository relationships with the borrower , 
stricter  adherence to policies on loan- to-value ratios and risk grade requirements, and inc reased 
scrutiny of paper work—esp ecially for commercial mortgages . However, contacts stressed that 
despite more stringent credit standards over the last year, they were still lending . In addition, 
credit quality of existing portfolios was little changed  since our last report . 
 Real Estate . Residential real estate agents  gave mixed reports about recent housing  
activity. In Fairfax, V a., a Realtor reported that t he heart of the market was “hot ” as houses in the 
$400K to $1.2 million price range sold the fastest . Similarly, contacts in the Washington, D.C., 
V-3  
area reported sales increases over last year, fueled by sales of properties under $1 million. A  
Realtor in Greenville, S.C ., said June had been his “best month” and that houses in the low - to 
middle -price range remained the best sellers. On a less positive  note, Realtors in Richmond, Va., 
Greensboro, N.C., and Asheville, N .C., reported more sluggish house sales . The Richmond 
Realtor  called sales “way off the mark ” while the contact in Asheville observed his area 
“buckling down and weathering the storm.” House prices either  held steady or declined across 
much of the District. 
Commercial real estate activity remained weak since our last report  as contacts reported 
fewer prospects and smaller transaction sizes . Contacts cited multiple reasons for recent 
transactions  that did occur , including firms cutting back on space, moving to a less expensive 
building, or extending existing contracts early in order to negotiate lower rental rates . Relatedly, 
rents  softened across most District markets, while agents observed that concessions —especially 
free rent —remained widespread . Vacancy rates were fairly stable in Charleston , W.Va., and 
Greenville, but edged up in  other markets . Contacts reported  no new large development projects , 
which they  believed  would help limit increases in vacancy rates . Commercial sales were 
“practically nonexistent” in recent weeks . There were, however, a  few sales for owner -occupied 
buildings, and a Charleston contact reported normal sales of office buildings, churches, and land. 
Additionally, owners not needing to sell immediately were reportedly pulling their properties off markets.  Sales prices trended down  in most District markets . 
 Tourism . Assessments of tourist activity varied since our last report. Along the coast, 
contacts reported that although the July 4th holiday weekend bookings  matched or exceeded year -
ago levels , summer business was generally weaker than a year ago. Analysts from Myrtle Beach, 
S.C., and Virginia Beach, Va., noted a considerably shortened booking cycle and double -digit 
discounts at  many hotels . Moreover, a contact on the Outer Banks of North Carolina said that 
rental agencies were discounting heavily . A respondent at a mountain resort in West Virginia 
described  holiday bookings as somewhat weaker than  a year ago . In contrast, a manager  at a 
mountain lodge in Virginia indicated that occupancy rates over the holiday were in line with last year, restaurants were busy , and retail numbers looked good.
  
 Temporary Employment . Temporary employment agents gave mixed reports on demand 
for workers in recent weeks . While a contact in Richmond, V a., reported a slight pickup in 
V-4  
demand for workers in  the medical industry, and a Hagerstown, Md., contact reported some 
increase in the government and education sectors, both saw  generally reduced demand. In 
contrast, a contact reported “somewhat strong” demand in the Raleigh, N.C., area, especially for 
manufacturing  labor , and another Raleigh contact noted a “reemergence” of several clients who 
had lately been “dormant .” Some of the skills in greatest deman d included workers proficient in 
IT and Microsoft Office, in addition to specialized managers and minimum wage workers .   
 Agriculture. Although there were  scattered reports of rainfall, dry conditions persisted in 
most areas since our last report . In Nort h Carolina , South Carolina, and Virginia, analysts 
reported heightened concerns about inadequate soil moisture and crop development. In some places, however,  the dry weather improved the progress of various crops .  In Maryland, the 
harvest of most vegetabl e crops was in full swing and apple and peach crops in both Maryland 
and West Virginia were reported to be in generally good condition. Likewise, producers in Virginia completed the small grain harvest and the planting of double -crop soybeans.
  
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA  
Summary .  Sixth District business contacts reported that  economic activity 
remained generally weak thr ough mid- July. R etail sales and traffic continued to be soft , 
but w ere largely in line with retailer’s modest expectations. Tourism -related spending 
was also sluggish, and a uto industry c ontacts reported further declin es in new -vehicle 
sales . Reports from r eal estate contacts indicated  that home sales , especially in the starter 
home market,  had shown some signs of stabiliz ing. Encouragingly, m ost Florida contacts 
reported that  home sales were above their year -ago readings . Also, indicators point to a 
moderating in t he pace of decline in manufacturing activity .  However, c ommercial  real 
estate activity continued to slow , with mor e projects put on hold or cancelled . Banking 
contacts remarke d that tight credit conditions remained in place and that demand for new 
loans continued to be soft  in the current environment . Labor market conditions 
deteriorated further in June and early July , with unemployment rising in most areas . Price 
pressures continued to be relatively subdued throughout the District.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism .  Ret ail contacts noted  that s ales and traffic 
remained below year -ago levels and were largely in line with their expectations. Most 
merchants had adjusted their inventor ies as a result of the weak sales performance and 
indicated that they were not anticipating adding to stocks in the short -term.  Several auto 
dealers reported lower new -vehicle sales , and m ost in dustry contacts noted a pickup in 
the used -car business that was helping to offset poor sales of new vehicles.   
According to most hospitality industry contacts, t ravel and tourism spending  
decreased across most of the region. Several reports  mentioned lower profit margins as a 
consequence of heavy price discounting and modest spending by vacationers . As a result, 
most contacts reported continuing to trim staffing levels.  A s ignificant decline in 
business -related travel and convention attenda nce was also noted  in some areas .   
Real Estate and Construction .  Reports from most District homebuilders and 
Realtors indicated that the pace of decline in home sales continued to moderate . Most 
Florida contacts experienced improvements in s ales, particu larly for existing homes , 
although part ly because of increased foreclosure sales . Most contacts continued to note 
downward pressure on home prices from foreclosures and short -sales. Both builders and 
Realtors noted some increased demand at the low -end of the housing market. The 
VI-2 
majority of homebuilders and contractors reported that new home c onstruction remained 
at very low levels. The outlook among builders and Realtors ha d improved in recent 
months , but in June expectations f or sales ov er the next several months  moderated  
following the end of the peak spring selling season.   
Commercial real estate activity continued to trend lower in June and through mid-
July. Vacancy rates r ose in many parts of the District, which has put additional downward 
pressure on rents. Contacts reported  that some tenants were requesting lower lease rates 
on existing contracts. Commercial construction continued to slow as well . Contractors 
continued to report an increasing number of  projects being delaye d or canc elled , 
especially in the r etail sector .  Several contacts noted that some delayed projects were 
being re -bid to take advantage of the willingness of contractors to lower their bids, thus 
raising the possibility that some postponed projects could get underw ay in coming 
months . 
Manufacturing and Transportation .   Regional manufacturing contacts 
indicated that the rate of decline in production and new o rders moderate d further in June 
and early July .  Most report s also noted an improved outlook for the coming months . 
However, providers of t ransportation services continued to indicate  a reduction in 
container  volume from both retailers and manufacturers. Trucking contacts noted that a n 
oversupply of trucks relative to demand was  putting downward pressure on frei ght rates  
and squeezing  profit margins. Rail shipments for lumber, gravel, autos , and chemicals 
were down from a year ea rlier.  
 Banking and Finance .  Credit conditions remained relatively unchanged  since 
the last report. B anking contacts continued to indicate that access to credit remained tight , 
with loans only being given to consumers with very good credit scores and to business 
customers with stable cash flows. Lenders  reported that they continued to focus on 
building reserves  in June and early July  as loan defaults continued to rise .  
Employment and Prices .  District business contacts continued to report  weak 
labor market conditions  and rising unemployment in June and early July . Although most 
reported that the wors t of the layoffs are behind them, some auto and oil and gas 
companies noted that they were planning additional job cuts in the coming months. 
Reports of hiring were limited to healthcare and the defense and aerospace industry , with 
VI-3 
most other business contacts not ing that they do not plan to increase hours or workforce 
in the near term .  There were a few reports of employers taking advantage of the 
increased supply of skilled labor to increase the quality of their workforce .     
Construction and m anufacturing firms report ed that raw material prices generally 
had moderated by mid- July after having increas ed in late spring . However, most prices 
received for finished manufactured products remained down from a year earlier. Some 
contacts noted that they were unsuccessful in attempts to pass on higher input costs to 
their customers. Most r etailers report ed that prices remained  relatively stable.    
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  As of mid -July, only half as many rigs 
were operating in the Gulf of Mexico  compared with the same period a year  earlier.  
Despite the gain in energy prices since the beginning of the year , energy industry contacts 
indicated that District producers have been gradually scaling back operations in response 
to increasing inventory levels and weak er domestic demand .  
District farm crops, particularly citrus,  benefitted from favorable weather in June 
through mid -July. Moisture conditions were adequate in all areas, with the exception of 
southern Louisiana. Lower domestic and global textile mill demand continued to trouble 
the near -term outlook for the District's cotton producers . 
 
 VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT —CHICAGO   
Summary .  Economic a ctivity in the Seventh District remained weak  in June and early July , 
but the pace of decline  slowed  from the  previous reporting period. Consumer and business s pending  
were sluggish . Manufacturing and c onstruction activity  remained at low levels, although both 
sectors showed some signs of improvement . Labor market conditions  deteriorate d, but the pace of 
job loss slowed. Credit conditi ons, although moderately improved, remained tight . Price and wage 
pressures were minimal . The outlook for crop production improved;  crop and livestock prices fell as 
did costs for livestock operations.  
Consumer spending .  Consum er spending continued to be sluggish in June and early July . 
Households remained price consci ous, focus ing on necessities and holding back on purchases of  
most big -ticket and luxury items . Retailers  expected a poor back- to-school season and planned to 
maintain  low levels of inventory  until the uncertainty surrounding  the state of  the economy recedes . 
Contacts noted that  tourism activity  was down over the  July 4th holiday weekend, even more so 
than last year ’s poor showing . In contrast, auto dealers reported  higher sales , which helped to bring 
inventories more in line with typical levels . New incentives  and interest in brands  expected to be 
discontinued after this model year were both cited as contributors to increases in showroom traffic 
and sales. However , the closing of dealerships as a result of the GM and Chrysler bankruptcies was 
indicate d to be  negatively  affecting local communities.   
Business spending.   The pace of business spending was  also sluggish. Contacts again 
indicated that they were delaying capital expenditures un til the general decline in  economic  activity 
abates . Labor market conditions in the Di strict continued to deteriorate , due in large part to 
weakness in the manufacturing sector . However, while s ome additional layoffs and reductions in 
hours through mandatory furloughs were reported, the pace of job loss slowed from the previous 
reporting period. Hiring  activity remained limited outside of healthcare and education , although a  
few contacts reported increasing hiring plans. Several auto assem bly plants reopened in late June  
and early July , but a contact noted that many of these plants will be coming back on- line with fewer 
employees. Similar cuts were also expected for auto suppliers. In contrast, one supplier reported 
rehiring  workers let go earlier  in the year  due to improving  sales tren ds and expectations of greater 
auto production for the remainder of the year . 
Construction/real estate.  C onstruction activity in the District remained weak . Residential 
construction was low , especially fo r apartments and condominiums. However, several contacts 
 
 VII-2 
noted either a bottoming out or small increase in sales of new single -family homes . The number of 
signed contracts declined at a slower pace with s howroom traffic  remaining slow but  steady  and 
cancellations declining . Many more fo reclosed homes reached  the stage of re possession and sale , 
putting downward pressure on home prices. C ontacts  in the mortgage industry reported  a small  
increase in purchase applications . Nonresidentia l construction declined , led by the commercial and 
industrial sectors  where high vacancy rates remained a concern.  In contrast, public sector 
construction increased. Furthermore, a  contact noted that several large nonresidential projects which 
recently  broke ground and additional projects in the pipelin e suggest a small  increase in activity in 
the coming months . Credit continued to be tight for residential and commercial developers.  
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing  activity remaine d weak , but conditions improved from the 
previous reporting period. Manufacturers of medium and heavy trucks and heavy machinery 
continued to report weak activity. The shutdown of several auto plants was reported  to have had 
negative impact s, but contacts also noted that the quick resolution of the Chrysler and GM 
bankrupt cies had been beneficial for business confidence. Conditions remained weak for auto 
suppliers, and contacts indicated that financial support from  the automakers  may be necessary at 
some point to prevent a loss in production capacity. A utomakers reported so me signs of firming in 
prices and a return to comfortable levels of inventories , and have scheduled a pickup in production 
in July . In addition, demand from overseas was noted to have picked up, and pharmaceutical 
production remained  strong . Steel production increased as service centers looked to replenish their 
inventories. One contact  in the steel industry  said that orders had filled the reduced capacity levels 
through the summer and that consideration was being given to bringing some idle ca pacity back on -
line later in the year. Other metals -related industries noted soft conditions.  
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions in the District remained tight, but improved moderately 
from the previous reporting period. Consum er credit demand stabilized  at a low  level  as standards 
remained tight . Banking contacts indicated  that loan  quality had  been better than expected , 
reflecting smaller increases  in unemployment and increases in transfer payments from the recent 
economic stimulus  package. Business loa n demand remained weak with  standards still tight and  
most firms reluctant to borrow . Terms continued to tighten in commercial real estate, as contacts 
indicated that loan quality was likely to continue to deteriorate. However, contacts noted that , in 
gene ral, bankruptcies had slowed and that financing costs for a number of area corporations had 
improved along with the rise in equity pri ces. A number of financial sector contacts expressed 
concern  that the uncertainty surrounding the regul atory environment  was potentially having harmful 
 
 VII-3 
consequences  for credit creation . In addition, some were  concern ed about the limited time frame 
being di scussed to implement new rules  and regulations .   
Prices/costs .  Price pressures were mixed, with energy p rices falling and some material  
prices rising. A number of contacts noted decli ning gasoline prices  in July . In contrast, contacts 
reported higher steel  prices , with further increases  expected by summer’s end due to lean supplier 
inventories. T he closing of sev eral lumber mills contribut ed to increasing plywood prices . Prices of 
other industrial metals like copper and aluminum were little changed . Wage pressures were limited , 
although some contacts noted continued cuts to benefits . In the retail sector , recent i ncreases in the 
minimum wage reportedly led to cutbacks in hours. P ass-through of wage and price pressures to 
downstream prices was minimal as contacts indicated that pricing power remain ed limited .   
Agriculture.  Corn and soybean prices declined during the reporting period. C rop 
conditions remained better than last year , and markets were surprised by an increase in corn acres 
planted. Moreover, District farmers plant ed more acres of both corn and soybeans than a year ago. 
Althoug h crop  maturation  was behind the typical pace due to planting delays, favorable weather in 
June and early July improve d the outlook for both corn and soybeans . Lower demand for livestock 
feed also contributed to the decline  in crop prices. Reduced costs for feed were not e nough, 
however, to offset continued low prices for dairy, hogs, and cattle. One contact expressed the view 
that agriculture has lost the financial cushion that was built up in previous years. Many farmers 
forward contracted only a relatively small portion of their production and were not well  prepared for 
the quick decline in crop prices. In addition, s ome livestock herds have been liquidated, as 
producers were unable to secure finan cing for operations .  
 
 
 
 
 
 VIII- 1 
Eighth District -  St. Louis  
Summary  
The pace of decline of economic activity in the Eighth District has moderated since our 
previous report.  Activity in the manufacturing and services sectors contracted at a slower pace.  
Reports from retailers and auto dealers were mixed.  Residential and commercial real estate 
markets conditions continue d to be weak.  Total loa ns at a sample of small and mid sized District 
banks declined slightly from early April to mid- June.  
Manufactur ing and Other Business Activity  
Manufacturing activity declined since our previous report but at a slower pace, as  
reported job losses slightly outpac ed new job announcements .  Several manufacturers reported 
plans to close plants  or reduce operations, but a similar number of contacts  reported plans to 
open plants and expand operations in the near future .  C ontacts in aerospace product 
manufacturing, electrical equipment manufacturing, and frozen food manufacturing reported plans to lay off workers and decre ase operations.  A firm in the paint/adhesive manufacturing 
industry announced that it will close a plant in the District, and  several auto parts and auto 
manufacturing firms furloughed a large number of workers and reduced  production as a result of  
the industry’s restructuring  plans .  In contrast, firms in the furniture manufacturing, fabricated 
metal product manufacturing, plastic product manufacturing, paper manufacturing , and rail 
technology manufacturing industries reported plans to expand facilities in the District and hire additional workers.  A major firm in steel manufacturing resumed  production and recalled  
several shifts of idled workers.  
The District's services sector continued to decline in most areas  but a slower pace .  A 
large number of contacts in education services, information services, business support services , 
 VIII- 2 
and medical services announced job cuts.  In contrast, contacts in the government services and 
health/social services industries announced plans to hire additional workers .  Also, several cities 
in the District continued to report that they wi ll be hiring temporary and part -time summer 
workers i n a range of service industries  using funds allocated through the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009.  Contacts in the retail sector reported a mixed outlook.  Smaller 
retail ers responded to a slowdown in store traffic with a mixture of promotions and discounted 
merchandise.  In contrast, a  major big -box retailer in the District continue d to experience growth, 
particularly by targeting higher -income consumers.  Auto dealers’ reports  were  mixed;  several 
franchise owners are going out of business, converting to used- car dealerships, or transitioning 
into service/repair centers.  Contacts report ed that sma ller cars continue to sell well with a 
limited market for large trucks and sport utility vehicles .   
Real Estate and Construction  
Home sales continued to decline throughout the Eighth District.  Compared with the same 
period in 2008, May 2009 year -to-date home sales were down 13 percent in St. Louis , 22 percent 
in Memphis, 32 percent in Little Rock, and 35 percent in Louisville.  Residential construction 
also continued to decline.  May 2009 year -to-date si ngle-family housing permits fell in nearly all 
District metro areas compared with the same period in 2008.  Permits declined 30 percent in 
Little Rock, 37 percent in St.  Louis , 44 percent in Louisville, and 56 percent in Memphis.  
Commercial real estate and construction markets continued to struggle throughout the 
District.  A contact in Memphis noted that  commercial real estate foreclosures  are likely  to 
increase as a result of current credit conditions .  A contact in St.  Louis  noted that, with the 
exception of institutional and health care –related projects, little construction is taking place.  
Industrial real estate and construction contacts throughout the District also continued to report a 
 VIII- 3 
difficult environment.  Contacts in the  Louisville area expressed disappointment regarding the 
slow impact of the stimulus bill and the size of projects it has funded to date.   
Banking and Finance  
Total loans outstandi ng at a sample of small and mid sized District banks decreased 1.3 
percent fr om early April to mid -June.  Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.0 percent of 
total loans, decreased 0.9 percent.  Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 16.7 percent 
of total loans, decreased 3.4 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting f or 5.3 percent of total 
loans, decreased 3.0 percent.  All other loans, roughly 5.0 percent of total loans, rose 0.7 percent. 
During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.6 percent. Agriculture and Natural Resources  
For the most part, deve lopment of the District's major crops remained behind its 5- year 
average  pace.  In mid -July, the overall condition of soybeans was slightly better than last year, 
while the condition of sorghum, rice, and cotton was slightly worse than last year, and corn was 
similar  to last year.  Farmers in the District states planned to harvest more acres of corn for grain, 
soybeans, and rice than in 2008 but fewer acres of sorghum for grain.  The winter wheat harvest 
was nearly complete in all District states except Ill inois and Indiana, where it was slightly behind 
its normal  pace.  Based on July estimates, total winter wheat production in the District states was 
expected to be down 41 percent from last year's bumper crop, but only 5 percent below the 2007 level . 
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT --MINNEAPOLIS  
The Ninth District e conomy contracted since  the last report . Decreases  in activity occurred 
in the retail  spending, tourism, services, residential construction, agriculture , mining  and 
manufacturing  sectors. The commercial construction sector  was stable at low levels , while 
the energy and residential real estate  sectors  saw moderate increases.  Labor markets 
slackened since the last report , and w age increases were mode rate. While a number of 
prices were lower than a year ago, prices have generally remained stable since the last 
report.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
Retail spending remained constrained . A major Minneapolis -based retailer reported that 
same- store sales in June were down 6 percent  compared with a year earlier.  Recent same -
store sales at a Minnesota- based hair care company dropped 4 percent , and sales at a 
Montana mall were flat to down slightly  from a year ago , according the mall manager. 
Meanwhile, sales at a N orth Dakota mall were down about 3 percent in June compared 
with a year earlier. A representative of a Minnesota- based food retailer noted that 
consumers we re value- focused and cautious w ith their spending. A Minnesota -based 
high-end seafood restaurant cha in recently filed for bankruptcy.  
Auto sales picked up slightly since the last report . Auto repair and auto parts 
businesses reported an increase in activity. Three domestic auto dealers, two in 
Minnesota and one in northwestern Wisconsin, noted increases  in sales during June and 
early July. However, a western Montana auto dealer noted that sales were down more 
than 50 percent compared with the past couple of years . 
Tourism activity was down from a year ago. Summer tourism activity in the 
Upper Peninsula of Michigan dropped about 15 percent , according to a tourism official. 
Occupancy at hotels and resorts in northeastern Minnesota was down 5 percent to 20 percent.  Hotels in western Montana noted occupancy down 4 percent to 10 percent; 
hotels were discountin g prices to draw people to their facilities. The number of tourists in 
northwestern Wisconsin was equal to or greater than last summer, but overall sales activity was slow.  
Services  
Services  sector  activity  fell since the last report . Several law firms reported reduced 
demand. A software development company based in Minnesota cut back on development . 
IX-2 
Architects reported continued slow  demand for their services . However, demand for health 
services picked up , and accountants who  deal with  business workouts reported increased 
activity.  
Construction and Real Estate  
Commercial construction was stable at low levels. A Bank director noted that bidding 
activity was up in the Helena, Mont., area but that large contractors were mostly bidding 
on smaller jobs. A number of civic projects were under construction around the D istrict. 
However, commercial permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., decreased 40 percent in value in June 
from a year earlier. Residential construction was slower. June housing permits were  down 
25 percent in value from a year earlier in Minneapolis -St. Paul  and decreased 30 percent 
in Fargo, N.D.  
Commercial real estate markets were slow. A representative of a state bankers’ 
association said the number of troubled commercial property loans has increased. 
Vacancies were particularly pronounced in retail and industrial markets throughout the 
District.  Several contacts reported that tenants were asking for rent decreases. Residential 
real estate activity increased. Closed home sales in Minneapolis -St. Paul increased 20 
percent in June from a year earlier, but the dollar volume of sales was flat , as medi an sale 
prices were down more than 15 percent. Realtors in western Montana said sales were 
steady there for lower -priced homes, but slow for high- end properties. 
Manufacturing  
Manufacturing activity decreased since the last report . A June  survey of purchas ing 
managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated that  activity declined in 
Minnesota  and the Dakotas . A Minnesota specialized -equipment company reduced  
production. A South Dakota producer of skid- steer and front -end loaders  cut production 
in response to weak demand. However, a  Minnesota diversified manufacturer reported 
that sales have stabilized after its  customers drew down inventory earlier in the year.  
Energy and Mining  
Activity  in the energy sector increased slightly , while the  mining sector  continued to fall . 
Early July  oil and gas exploration edged up from e arly June . New wind energy projects 
were announced since the last report. As iron ore inventories have accumulated  at the 
shipping ports , a mine in northern Minnesota plans to shut production for about a year.  
 
IX-3 
 
Agriculture  
Agricultural conditions  weakened since the last report . Potato growers in the Red River 
Valley could lose 20 percent of the ir crop due to heav y rains , while  drought conditions 
persist in northern Wisconsin. Corn, soybean and wheat prices are expected to fall , 
according to the U.S. D epartment of Agriculture.  District production of wheat and barley 
is expected to drop significantly in 2009 from strong 2008 levels . In addition, progress for 
the District corn and soybean crop s was behind its  five-year average pace.  
Employment, Wages and Prices  
Labor markets slackened since the last report. The University of Minnesota recently announced plans to reduce the school’s workforce by 1,200 positions over the next year , 
mostly through attrition, but 370 employees are expected to be laid off. Also in Minnesota, a trucking company with 200 employees recently announced it will close by the end of August, a Minnesota -based regional a irline plans to furlough up to 110 pilots  
and a health insurance company will lay off 100 workers. A Montana sawmill recently closed, resulting in 85 lay -offs. A work platform lifts plant in North Dakota will shut 
down this fall , resulting in 61 lost jobs. A temporary staffing agency survey of 
Minneapolis -St. Paul businesses showed that 13 percent of respondents expect  to hire 
workers during the third quarter, while 19 percent expect  to reduce staff.  A Minnesota 
staffing services company noted that the pace of business in early July was much slower 
than usual. However, another placement company noted an increase in demand for 
experienced information technology workers.  
Wage increases were moderate. According to respondents to a recent St. Cloud 
(Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, 24 percent expect to increase employee compensation over the next six months, down from 35 percent in last year’s survey . A 
Minnesota bank branch cut pay by 5 percent for all salaried staff.  
 While a number of prices were lower th an a year ago, prices have generally 
remained stable since the last report. M etal prices held relatively stable since the last 
report, although recent increases in some copper  and steel  products were noted. Minnesota 
gasoline prices in early July were 17 cents per gallon lower than a month ago.  
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT  - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy  show ed further signs of stabilization  in June .  Consumer 
spending was generally sluggish  but improvements were noted in auto sales and tourism 
spending.  M anufacturing activity expanded modestly , primarily in nondurable goods production. 
 Residential real estate activity held  steady ; however , commercial real estate firms report ed 
weakening market conditions .  Employment in the  energy sector continued to contract in 
response  to low natural gas prices .  Bankers reported weaker loan demand, stable deposits, and a 
continued negative outlook for loan quality.  While  growing conditions improved, agricultural 
profit opportunities softened, especially for livestock producers.  Despite higher input prices , 
retail price pressures  eased  and little evidence of wage pressures was reported  in District labor  
markets . 
Consumer Spending.   District retailers reported  a weaker than expected uptick in  
consumer activity since the last survey.  General retailers reported a slight improvement in 
overall sales activity , highlighted by stronger sales for home furnishings, appliances, and other 
household items.  Auto dealers reported an increase in sales volume in June, with the greatest 
unit gains i n small new cars and all types  of used cars .  Dealers reported offering only a modest 
level of incentives to buyers  and were largely sat isfied with existing inventories ; however , dealer 
access to credit remain ed tight.  Demand for all types of apparel remained soft heading  into the 
critical back -to-school season.  Restaurant operators reported weaker  overall sales and a 
continued decline in average check size.  Tourism spending rebounded in June but remained below expectations , especially at mou ntain resort s.  Casino revenues remained strong in 
Oklahoma and Missouri, but declined in other District states.  
Manufacturing  and Other Business Activity .  The Tenth District’s  manufacturing, 
transportation, and high- tech sectors showed tentative signs  of increased business  activity .  The 
manufacturing sector reported a slight improvement in production, shipment volumes, and new orders in June  – a marked improvement from the sharp contractions reported in the early spring.  
The strongest manufacturing  production incr eases  were reported in  nondurable sectors.  D urable 
goods production was flat  and showed little sign of expansion , with sharp contractions in 
aviation and oil and gas -driven machinery sectors .  District manufacturing firms reported an 
 
 X-2  
increase in weekly ho urs worked but  did not expect  to hire new workers  for many months.  New 
export orders returned to a near neutral position after showing weakness since last summer.  
Factory managers ex pected conditions to remain unchanged  over the next six months .  
Technology -related  firms reported increased business activity , with strength noted in clean 
technology and defense -driven aerospace.  Like manufacturing, t ransportation firms report ed a 
similar improvement in overall business activity.   
Real Estate and Construction .  Residential real estate firms reported stronger sales 
volumes in June but commercial real estate activity weakened further.  Home inventory levels 
improve d further  in all D istrict states , with strong sales in the lower and middle price tiers o f the 
market.  Starter home sales remained strong due to first-time homebuyer tax credits  and sales 
volumes improved for bank owned and investor properties .  Housing prices remained firm in 
Kansas and Oklahoma, while f oreclosures weigh ed most heavily on the Colorado and New 
Mexico housing markets.  Home builders cited unfavorable borrowing terms, mounting foreclosures, and a slower than expected inventory adjustment as the major reasons limiting a  
construction rebound.  Commercial real es tate weakened further with declines in completions 
and construction underway.  Vacancy rates in the District rose further and absorption rates declined.  Few commercial real estate firms expected a recovery by the end of 2010, although some commercial builders noted increased  competitive pressures from firms outside the region 
seeking opportunities in District markets.  Further declines in commercial real estate prices and 
rents were expected.  Commercial real estate firms said the market favored buyers and  tenants, 
leaving them little negotiating leverage . 
Banking.  Bankers reported weaker loan demand, stable deposits, and a continued 
negative outlook for loan quality.  Overall loan demand declined moderately after showing signs of stabilizing in the previo us survey.  Demand for residential real estate loans rose more slowly, 
while demand for commercial and industrial loans resumed declining following a brief pause in the last survey.  Demand for commercial real estate loans and consumer installment loans al so 
fell somewhat.  Some banks continued to report tighter credit standards on commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, and a few banks reported tighter standards on consumer installment loans.  Loan quality remained substantially lower than a year ago, and about half the banks expect ed loan quality to decline further in the next six months.  Deposits 
 
 X-3  
were little changed, following a substantial increase in the previous survey. 
Energy.  The energy sector remained a drag on overall Di strict economic activity  in June . 
 Nearly all  contacts reported no change  in drilling activity  and did not expect any improvement  in 
the months ahead.  Although national crude oil prices were above $60 per barrel, low  natural gas 
prices limited  drilling activity  and encouraged well shut -ins.  Low natural gas prices created  a 
particular financial strain on Wyoming, Colorado, and New Mexico producers where the spread 
between regional and national prices remained large.  P roducers generally expect ed prices f or 
both crude oil and natural gas to remain at or above current levels  over the next three months.  
Several contacts  reported considerable reductions in their workforce  and have no plans to 
increase hiring in the near future .  Many firms  noted selectivity in their workforce reductions in 
order to retain critical high skill workers and the ability to respond quickly when pricing 
conditions improve. 
Agriculture.  While growing conditions improved, profit opportunities softened for 
agricultural pr oducers since the last survey period.  Ample rainfall in June and early July aided 
growing conditions but declining commodity prices dampened farm income expectations.  
Though corn and soybean development was lagging due to cooler temperatures, crops were still reported in good condition.  Due to weather damage, wheat producers in the southern portions of the District harvested fewer acres and reported below average yields; however, growers located further north anticipated above average wheat yields.  Soft  demand for meat continued to put 
downward pressure on livestock prices , and producers responded with further herd liquidations.  
Farmland values held firm, supported by the limited supply of farms for sale coupled with solid demand from farm operators and renewed interest from non- farm investors.  
Wages and Prices .   District contacts reported limited pass through  of higher input prices 
and little evidence of wage pressures across District labor markets .  Rising fuel costs pushed up 
producer prices, althoug h few  producers planned to raise output prices in the future.  Builders  
reported higher prices for supplies, especially roofing products  and asphalt .  Manufacturers 
reported that raw materials and finished goods prices were largely unchanged.  Retail prices edged down and were expected to soften further ; however, restaurant menu prices increased .  
Only a small number of firms  reported  labor shortages, resulting in little to no  wage pressures.    
XI - 1  
ELEVENTH DISTRICT – DALLAS  
Economic activity in the Eleventh District remained mostly steady at subdued levels in June and early 
July. Contacts in many industries noted some stabilization in demand, but few expected any real 
turnaround in the near -term. Outlooks remain very uncertai n and businesses continue to cut costs and 
reduce payrolls. Price and wage pressures remain minimal.        
Prices   Most firms continued to report downward price pressures. Fee reductions were noted in 
several industries, including temporary staffing, acco unting and legal services and construction. A uto 
dealers said prices had firmed slightly, but remain low due to anemic demand and high inventories. Eleventh District -based airlines continued to reduce fares, although at a slower pace.  
Manufacturers said s elling prices were flat to down. Petrochemicals remained an exception, as 
some product prices were driven higher by the uptick in oil prices. Raw materials prices were mostly stable, but some contacts said higher fuel costs had squeezed margins. There were scattered reports of 
increases for some types of steel products among nonresidential construction contacts.   
Prices for light sweet crude oil stayed near $70 per barrel throughout June, but fell back to $60 in 
early July. According to contacts the rise t o $70 per barrel seemed to defy market fundamentals of weak 
demand and high inventories. Natural gas prices remained relatively weak, moving briefly over $4 per Mcf in June before falling back to $3.50 by early July. Natural gas prices are expected to remain low as 
inventories are 19 percent above the 5- year average. Pump prices for gasoline rose about 10 cents per 
gallon in June, but declined by 12 cents in early July.  
Labor Market   Labor markets remain weak and the pool of available workers continues to grow 
due to rising unemployment and relocations from other areas of the country, according to contacts. 
Layoffs continue at some firms and many are continuing hiring freezes initiated earlier in the year. 
Staffing firms said employers were “dragging their feet” as economic uncertainty remains elevated. There 
were no reports of wage increases, and many firms were reducing costs by cutting perks such as bonuses 
and travel allowances, or freezing 401(k) contributions. Salary freezes remain widespread.  
Manufac turing  Construction- related manufacturers said demand was flat at weak levels, 
although there were some reports that public works construction had improved due to school bond 
measures and hospital expansions. Both private residential and commercial constr uction activity remain 
depressed, and contacts expect no improvement in the near term. There were scattered reports of layoffs, 
though most firms said they had already “right sized” their staff levels. Fabricated metals respondents said 
inventories had com e down. Primary metals contacts anticipate some bankruptcies that may help alleviate 
excess capacity in the industry. Brick producers continued to cut capacity and reported some upcoming plant closures.  
XI - 2  
Most respondents in high- tech manufacturing said pro duction had increased since our last report, 
primarily because retailers and manufacturers pared back inventories less sharply than they had earlier in 
the year. Demand was reported to be increasing in China, flat in Europe, and flat to slightly up in the U.S.  
One respondent noted that orders from state and local governments had been delayed due to budget 
shortfalls.  Most contacts said that they continue to reduce em ployment but at a slower pace. Improved 
outlooks suggested more confidence that the econom y will recover by year-end, and contacts are seeing 
some upside potential in their forecasts instead of just down -side risks.   
Contacts in the paper industry said demand continued to stabilize with orders holding relatively 
steady. Employment levels edged  down slightly, although most cutbacks occurred earlier in the year. 
Outlooks were slightly more optimistic than in the last report, although most contacts don’t expect much change in demand through year -end.  Food producers noted demand was off slightly but they remained 
optimistic about their individual business conditions. Most expect stable sales over the next several 
months. Demand in the transportation manufacturing sector remains weak overall. Outlooks suggest 
continued uncertainty, although several contacts said they believe economic conditions are stabilizing.  
 Petrochemical producers said little had changed over the past six weeks. Export demand 
continued to increase due to the cost advantage of domestic natural gas- based products over oil -based 
products, but domestic demand remains generally weak and operating rates for most products are low. 
Prices for a variety of chemicals rose with the June uptick in oil prices.    
Refiners operated at a slightly higher percent of capacity utilization over the  past six weeks, but 
most producers said conditions remained weak overall —gasoline demand remains slightly below year -
earlier levels and both distillates and jet fuel are down 15 percent. Weak demand made it difficult for refineries to pass through the upt ick in crude oil prices, thus profit margins remained low.   
Retail Sales  Retail activity was mixed.  Department stores saw continued improvement in sales, 
while value -based retailers repo rted slightly weaker activity. According to contacts, inventories have been 
pared down to appropriate levels relative to sales. Consumers remain cost conscious and continue to 
substitute less -expensive store brands for name brands. M erchants' outlook s for future sales remain 
cautious.  
Auto dealers said demand was fairly steady at low levels, and most were hopeful the worst was 
behind them. Inventories remain high and are exertin g downward pressure on prices. Outlooks continue to 
be pessimistic, with sales expected to remain low this year. Some are hoping for a turnaround by next 
spring, but most expect a long, slow recovery.  
Services  Staffing firms report that orders are trickling in and layoffs have slowed,  but overall 
activity remains sluggish and erratic.  Contract work continues to be more active than direct hires, and 
weakness is still widespread with only orders from the healthcare industry showing some stability.   
XI - 3  
Demand for legal services has stabili zed at low levels according to contacts. Litigation and 
bankruptcy work is solid, while demand for real estate and corporate transactions remains soft.  Law firms 
say that they have pushed out starting dates of new associates by several months and some are also 
offering lower starting salaries. Accounting services firms said demand for tax and audit services is 
holding up, while that for discretionary services has declined.  Both legal and accounting firms expect 
business to be weak through year -end. 
Airlin es report that demand remains feeble especially for business travel.  Capacity reductions 
and job cuts are underway and future bookings suggest continued weakness over the next three months.  
Transportation service contacts in small parcel shipping and int ermodal trade note d an uptick in demand.  
Still volumes remain well below year -ago levels, and the outlook is for continued weakness in the near -
term.  Container trade fell further in June, but contacts expect a pickup in the fourth quarter.  Railroads 
reported growth in June, although cargo volumes remain below year -earlier levels. S hipments of 
construction- related materials such as nonmetallic minerals, stone, clay and glass post ed the largest 
monthly increases.   
 Construction and Re al Estate    Home sales continue to improve in the lower -priced, entry -level 
market as buyers take advantage of the first -time homebuyer tax credit which expires at the end of 
November. Despite the pickup, overall sales are well below year -ago levels and contacts say sales 
continue to decline in higher -priced segments of the market. While sales prices are slightly below year -
earlier levels they have held up comparatively well to most other areas of the country. Residential construction activity remains at very low levels, but so me contacts expect to see a pickup in  entry -level 
housing starts in the near term.   
Commercial leasing activity continues to soften as businesses cut costs. Landlords are reportedly 
becoming more aggressive in lease negotiations by offering additional co ncessions. Vacancy rates are 
edging up for office and industrial space, but contacts say the retail market remains the most difficult. Still, supply and demand fundaments are better in the Eleventh District than in many other areas of the 
country, according to respondents.  
Sales transactions of commercial real estate properties remain almost nonexistent, but there 
continue to be reports of interested investors for very good deals. Private nonresidential construction 
activity continues to decline, although there were reports of some pickup in public sector activity due to 
hospital and school projects. Several contacts noted stimulus money had not led to any additional work. 
Outlooks remain uncertain, and many expect no significant pickup in nonresidential ac tivity until late 
2010 or 2011.  
Financial Services  Eleventh District loan demand did not change significantly over the past six 
weeks, according to financial industry contacts. Business lending was subdued and commercial real estate 
XI - 4  
lending was anemic. H ome loans remained at low levels and refinancing activity held steady. Contacts 
said credit standards remain tight and banks are being more conservative going forward due to uncertainty 
over future regulation. Contacts noted concern about commercial real e state loans and expect losses to 
become much worse as loans come due in the next several years. So far lenders have deferred the necessary de -leveraging as property values have declined, waiting to see where values settle before taking 
decisive action. Com munity banks saw strong deposit growth as customers moved funds from larger 
institutions to smaller ones as a safe haven, according to contacts. Although respondents say economic conditions have improved from earlier in the year, outlooks for the financial  services sector remain very 
uncertain.  
Energy   The number of working rigs in the Eleventh District rose slightly in late June and early 
July. The improvement was driven solely by rising oil prices --which hit $70 per barrel in June —as some 
producers swit ched to oil -directed activity. More recently oil prices slipped, and contacts expect projects 
to fall back. Natural gas activity continued to fall, and contacts were pessimistic about any near -term 
improvement. Despite the small improvement in the rig count, demand for oil services remained quite 
weak relative to the large overhang of capacity in the industry.   
Agriculture  D rought continues to stress crops and forage across much of the District.  Dry 
conditions are most seve re in south and central Texas w here m any fields of cotton, corn and other dryland 
crops are not worth harvesting —leading producers to collect insurance .  Ranchers in the driest parts of the 
District continue to liquidate their cow and cattle herds at a loss . Contacts expressed concern about the 
cash flow position of producers because of drought and high feed and input costs.  
 
 
 
 
 
XII -  1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO  
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District appeared to hold largely steady  on net during the 
reporting period of June through mid -July, with continued signs of stabilization or improvement  in some 
sectors .  Upward price pressures remained  very modest  on net , and upward wage pressures generally were 
absent .  Retail sales remained sluggish, while demand for services weakened further .  Manufacturing 
activity in the District stayed mired at very low levels on bal ance, although demand and activity improved 
further for manufacturers of information technology products.  Sales continued at a solid pace for 
agricultural producer s, while demand fell further for providers of natural resource  products .  Housing 
sales and construction  picked up in some areas but  were weak on net , and demand for commercia l real 
estate continued to fall.  Banking contacts reported very weak loan demand and ongoing  declines in credit 
quality.  
Wages and Prices  
 Upward price pressures cont inued to be very limited on balance  during the reporting period .  Oil 
prices fell from recent highs , and the prices of other commodit ies remained largely stable.  Final prices on 
various retail goods were held down by  continued discounting , and weak demand led to further price 
reductions for assorted services, such as transportation, hotel rooms , and professional services.  With few 
exceptions, contacts reported that they anticipate prices in their respective industries to stay mostly  stable 
during the second half of 2009.   
 Upward wage pressures remained  virtually  nonexistent .  Contacts continued to report  the use of  
wage freezes or cuts , reductions in benefits, and mandatory furloughs  as cost -saving measures in various 
industries.  Hiring r emained quite limited, and reports pointed to rising reliance on temp orary workers  in 
some sectors, putting  additional  downward pressure on wages.    
Retail Trade and Services  
 While r etail sales remained sluggish  overall , reports suggested that they were stable or improved 
slightly compared with the pr evious  reporting period.  With consumers staying  focused on necessities 
XII -  2 
such as food and sundries, discount chains and grocers continued to see sales growth.   By contrast, 
demand remained quite soft f or department stores and many smaller retail outlets , and sales of furniture 
and household appliances remained anemic.  Sales of n ew automobiles  and light trucks continued at 
exceptionally  low levels.  D emand for used automobiles stayed comparatively strong, but contacts noted 
that a lack of suitable inventory has  held down sales somewhat .  Contacts pointed to ongoing job losses 
and rising unemployment as the primary factors constraining consumer spending . 
 Demand for services continued to soften  on net since the last reporting period.  Conditions 
remained challenging for restaurants throughout the District, with contacts noting significant revenue 
declines and further  closures .  Likewise, demand for professional and media services continued to be very 
weak, resulting in additional  layoffs.  Demand for transportation services dropped, with reports pointing 
to further declines in container traffic at ports.   Travel and tourism activity in the District fell further;  the 
sharpest dec lines were evident in  the business and luxury segments of the market , which reduced airline 
traffic .  By contrast, providers of health -care services saw a slight increase in patient volumes, reversing 
the trend of prior reporting periods.  
Manufacturing  
  Manufacturing activity in the District remained feeble  on net  during the reporting period of June 
through mid -July.  Metal fabricators continued to experience very weak demand , which  held their 
capacity utilization  rates at  extremely  low levels.  Following  the seasonal peak in gasoline demand, 
activity  at petroleum refineries declined.  Production ac tivity  by commercial aircraft  manufacturers  
continued to slow, and their  order backlog declined as new aircraft orders were outnumbered by 
cancellations  of exis ting orders .  By contrast , conditions improved further for manufacturers of 
semiconductors  and other information technology products , as sales increased and capacity utilization 
rates rose significantly .  New orders and sales remained strong for food manuf acturers.  
Agriculture and Resource -related Industries  
 Demand remained solid for agricultural products  but stayed  somewhat weak for producers of 
natural resources.  Sales mostly held steady for a variety of crop an d livestock product s, and c ontacts 
XII -  3 
noted largely stable input costs , with  transportation costs  reported to be at the lowest levels recorded  at 
any time during the last three years.  Oil  extraction activity has expanded in response to earlier increases 
in the price of oil, but contacts noted that recent declines in oil prices may reverse this trend.   Extraction 
of natural gas has been held down by weak demand and falling prices, with activity reportedly near the 
lowest levels seen since 2002 .   
Real Estate an d Construction  
 
 Conditions  in District housing mar kets remained very weak but showed further signs of 
improvement, while demand for commercial real estate continued to erode.  Sales prices for new and 
existing homes fell further in most parts of the District, and home construction activity  remained at very 
low levels.  Combined with low mortgage rates, however, price declines  have propelled a sustained 
pickup in the pac e of home sales in many areas.  Demand for  commercial real estate fell further , and with 
rising vacancy rates, tenants have  successfully  been  request ing rent concessions and other new terms on  
existing leases.   Construction activity for commercial properties  also continued to fall , and contacts not ed 
that a lack of available credit remained a constraint for construction activity and investment  transactions 
in some areas.  
Financial Institutions  
 District lending activity fell further , and credit conditions remained tight during the reporting 
period.  D emand for commercial and industrial loa ns continued to fall, as business owners remained 
pessimistic about near -term prospects and continued to restrain their capital spending.  Demand for 
consumer loans  also was characterized as weak on net.  Banking cont acts reported further deterioration in 
credit quality for business and consumer loans, with bankruptcies and foreclosures staying  on an upward 
trend.   