               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
               W e d n e s d a y  
               July 28, 2010 
  
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
   
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
  
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
July 2010 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
 
 
July 2010 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
 SUMMARY ............................................................................................................. i  First District – Boston ...........................................................................................I-1  Second District – New York ............................................................................... II-1  Third District – Philadelphia..............................................................................III-1  Fourth District – Cleveland................................................................................IV-1  Fifth District – Richmond ................................................................................... V-1  Sixth District – Atlanta ......................................................................................VI-1  Seventh District – Chicago .............................................................................. VII-1  Eighth District – St. Louis............................................................................... VIII-1  Ninth District – Minneapolis..............................................................................IX-1  Tenth District – Kansas City............................................................................... X-1 
 
Eleventh District – Dallas ..................................................................................XI-1  Twelfth District – San Francisco...................................................................... XII-1 
i 
 
 Summary* 
Economic activity has continued to increase,  on balance, since the previous survey, 
although the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts reported that the level of ec onomic activity 
generally held steady.  Among those Districts reporting improvements in economic activity, a 
number of them noted that the increases were modest, and two Districts, Atlanta and Chicago, 
said that the pace of economic activity had slowed recently. 
Manufacturing activity continued to expand in most Districts, although several Districts 
reported that activity had slowed or leveled off during the reporti ng period.  Districts also noted 
improved conditions in the servi ces sector.  The five District s reporting on transportation noted 
increased activity.  Tourism activity also incr eased across the Districts, although the Atlanta 
District noted concerns about decr eased leisure travel to the Gulf  Coast.  Retail sales reports 
generally indicated a continued rise in spendi ng, and several Districts noted that necessities 
continued to be strong sellers, while big-ticket items moved more slowly.  However, most 
Districts that reported on auto sales noted declines  in recent weeks.  Activity in residential real 
estate markets was sluggish in most Districts af ter the expiration of the April 30 deadline for the 
homebuyer tax credit.  Commercial real estate markets, especially constr uction, remained weak.  
Banking conditions varied across the Districts, w ith some Districts noting soft or decreased 
overall loan demand; credit standards remained ti ght in most reporting Districts.  Recent rains 
had mixed effects on crop conditions, while activit y in the natural resources sector increased.  
Overall labor market conditions improved modestly across the Districts, with several reports of 
temporary hiring.  Consumer prices of goods and serv ices held steady in most  reporting Districts.  
                                                             
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and based on information collected on or before July 19, 2010. 
This document summarizes comments recei ved from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is 
not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.  
ii 
 
 Input prices also held largely steady, with only a few reports of cost increases.  Wage pressures 
continued to be contained on the whole. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity in most Districts continued to move  up since the last report, 
although the pace of activity slowed or activity le veled off in the New York, Cleveland, Kansas 
City, Chicago, Atlanta, and Rich mond Districts.  Automobile ma nufacturing was a bright spot 
for the Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts.   Automobile parts suppliers also experienced 
increased demand in both the Richmond and Chicago Di stricts.  Fuel demand at refineries in the 
San Francisco District improved, while gasoline demand was steady in the Dallas District.  Firms 
in the semiconductor manufacturing industry reported relatively strong sa les or demand growth 
in both the Boston and San Franci sco Districts.  Firms in aircraft and parts manufacturing saw 
sales pick up in both the San Fr ancisco and Dallas Districts.  Manufacturing firms in the Boston, 
Philadelphia, Kansas City, and Da llas Districts were optimistic that demand would continue to 
improve in the following months.  However, Cleveland’s contacts exp ect demand growth to 
taper off, Philadelphia noted that the balance of positive over negative views had narrowed, and 
Atlanta reported fewer firms planning expansions in production.  Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas 
reported that firms in construction-relate d manufacturing experienced weak demand; 
construction supplies sales were flat  in Kansas City, and Minneapolis  reported that a firm in the 
sector was increasing production.  Steel production declined in both the Chicago and Cleveland 
Districts.  Some manufacturers in the Atlant a and San Francisco Districts reported high excess 
production capacity.  Capacity ut ilization was below pre-recession levels in Cleveland and edged 
lower among steel producers in Chicago.  
iii 
 
 Activity in the services sector improved across most Districts since the previous report.  
The freight transportation industr y experienced gains in the Clev eland, Atlanta, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and Philadelphia Districts.  Boston, Minn eapolis, and Dallas reported a pickup in demand 
for some consulting firms.  Tourism activity increased in the San Francisco, New York, 
Minneapolis, Richmond, Kansas City, and Atlanta Dist ricts.  Atlanta reported  that leisure travel 
decreased in the Gulf Coast, but some of the lo st tourist traffic was offset by the presence of 
cleanup crews, oil company workers, and the National Guard.  Information technology firms saw increased business in the Philadel phia, Chicago, and St. Louis Distri cts, while activit y was flat in 
the Minneapolis District.  Demand for healthcare services was flat in both the San Francisco and 
Richmond Districts, while activity increased in the Boston District. 
Consumer Spending 
Reports on retail sales during the early summer months were generally positive, although 
in most Districts the increases were modest.  Retail sales in the New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts were high er than year-earlier sales, and Dallas reported 
solid gains.  But sales in the Boston District were mixed compared with the previous year.  Recent sales increased slightly in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts; sales in the Richmond District weakened; and sales in the Kans as City District were flat 
compared with the previous report.  Several Dist ricts cited apparel, food, and other necessities as 
recent strong sellers, while big-ticket items were  weak sellers.  Contacts reported satisfactory 
inventory levels in the New York  District, mixed inventory levels  in the Boston Di strict, and low 
or declining inventory levels in  the Richmond, Atlanta, and Chi cago Districts.  The outlook for 
sales was mixed:  Retailers in the Philadelphia,  Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts 
reported that they expect modest positive sales growth in the upcoming months; contacts in the 
iv 
 
 Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chica go Districts reported a less optim istic outlook going forward than 
in the previous report; and re tailers in the Bost on District reported a cautious outlook. 
The Districts that reported on auto sales duri ng the early summer m onths generally noted 
a decrease in recent sales.  Since the previous re port, auto sales in the New York, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts declin ed, while auto sales in the 
Kansas City District increased and were unchanged in the Dallas Di strict.  Compared with last 
year, auto sales in the Atlanta and St. Louis Di stricts were higher.  New York, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas all reported that inventory levels were low or 
declining.  Auto dealers anticipa te little change in sales for th e rest of 2010 in the Philadelphia 
District and expect sales to incr ease slowly in the Dallas District.  Contacts in the Kansas City 
District expect continued strong demand, while those in the Clevel and District do not anticipate 
strong growth in the coming months. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Nearly all Districts reported  sluggish housing markets in th e months since the homebuyer 
tax credit expired on April 30.  While some Distri cts, such as Boston and St. Louis, reported an 
increase in May and June home sa les on a year-over-year basis, some contacts noted that these 
sales may reflect closings of homes under contract by the April tax credit deadline.  The Boston, 
Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts reported that home  sales are expected to weaken 
going forward.  Residential construction remained limited in several Districts.  In the Atlanta 
District, residential construction activity softened from already weak levels.  Homebuilders in the 
Cleveland District do not expect  a turnaround in new home construction any time this year.  
Builders in the Chicago District are not introducing new inventory without a signed contract on a 
v 
 
 home.  Housing starts were expected to declin e for the second half of the year in the Dallas 
District and to increase slight ly over the next three months in the Kansas City District. 
Commercial and industrial real estate markets continued to struggle in all twelve 
Districts.  Overall, vacancy rates were flat to slightly increased and continued to exert downward 
pressure on rents.  Construction activity remain ed weak in most Districts.  The New York 
District noted that commercial development rema ined generally sluggish despite some pickup in 
office and retail leasing in New York City.  Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas reported that 
construction activity continued to be weak or to decline, and Cleveland reported that the increase 
in construction from previous repor ts has begun to diminish.  Phila delphia reported that projects 
funded with federal stimulus support were near completion with no prospects for additional major construction, while Chicago reported that public infrastructure cons truction picked up.  
Developers reported difficult credit conditions  in the Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, and 
Kansas City Districts, while th e Dallas District reported a few de velopers going out of business.  
The outlook for commercial and industrial real es tate across the Districts ranged from further 
declines in activity to slow growth. 
Banking and Finance 
Reports on banking conditions were largely mixe d across the Districts.   Banking activity 
in Richmond and loan demand in Kansas City increased modestly.  Overall loan demand was 
reported as soft or weak in Cleveland, Atlanta,  and Dallas, while total outstanding loan volume 
decreased in recent months in St. Louis but wa s steady in Philadelphia and San Francisco.  
Demand for commercial loans was flat to increa sing in the Philadelphia,  Cleveland, Richmond, 
Chicago, and Kansas City Districts; in contrast , St. Louis reported a decrease in commercial 
vi 
 
 loans outstanding, while New York, Atlanta, and San Francisco repo rted restrained  or decreasing 
demand in this lending category.  Demand for cons umer loans was weak in Cleveland and eased 
in Philadelphia; Atlanta and St . Louis indicated a decline in consumer lending; but demand for 
consumer loans increased in New York and Kansas  City.  Demand for resi dential mortgage loans 
eased in the Philadelphia District but increased in the New York District; Cleveland reported 
residential mortgage activity below expectations at given rates; a nd real estate le nding decreased 
in St. Louis.  Credit was limited for commercial real estate loans in Chicago, and demand fell for 
these loans in New York and Kansas City.  
Most Districts reporting on credit standard s continued to note that lending standards 
remain restrictive.  New York reported tighter cr edit standards for all categories except consumer 
loans, while Kansas City reported tighter co mmercial lending standard s.  Reports on credit 
quality were mixed in Cleveland and Kansas City, while quality was stable in San Francisco.  
Credit quality improved slightly in  Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicag o.  In the Dallas District, 
nonperforming loans have stabilized  and are not expected to wors en.  Meanwhile, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, and Richmond continued to report delinquencies above historic norms.  Delinquency 
rates in the New York District decreased for c onsumer loans but experienced little or no change 
in other categories. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Recent rains improved the dry conditions in the Minneapolis and Dallas Districts and 
reduced irrigation needs in the Kansas City Dist rict.  In contrast, ex cess precipitation caused 
some crop damage in the Chicago District and some delays in the winter wheat harvest in the 
Kansas City District.  Parts of the Atlanta Di strict experienced some crop stress due to dryness 
vii 
 
 and heat.  Contacts reported th at crops were in good conditi on overall in the Atlanta, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, but crop conditions worsened slightly in recent 
weeks in the Chicago District and were mixed in the St. Louis District compared with last year.  
Producers in the Chicago District  continued to expect good yields for their corn and soybean 
crops, and the outlook for cotton yields in the Dallas District has improved. 
Overall, activity in the energy sector increase d since the previous re port.  Oil production 
in the Atlanta District and oil a nd natural gas production in the Cl eveland District were relatively 
unchanged, but other activity pick ed up throughout the Districts during the reporting period.  The 
number of drilling rigs increased in the Dalla s District, and production continued to expand in 
the Kansas City District.  Additionally, oil ex ploration in the Minneapolis District and oil 
extraction in the San Francisco District increased .  Activity in the Minneapolis District’s mining 
sector increased in recent w eeks, as did production and dema nd for coal in the Cleveland 
District.  Kansas City reported th at contacts expect to see continued growth in energy production.   
Labor Markets, Wages, and Prices 
Labor market conditions improve d gradually in several Dist ricts.  New York, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, Richmond, and Atlanta all reported th at labor markets improved, albeit modestly in 
some cases, while Boston and Dallas reported that employment was steady.  Philadelphia, 
Atlanta, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis reported that tem porary employment experienced 
increased demand.  Contacts in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas, and Sa n Francisco Districts 
said that they continued to rely on temporary staff over permanent hires.  Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago saw hiring in the manufacturing s ector.  Cleveland also reported some new job 
openings in the healthcare industry.  Boston and Cleveland noted that firms in some services 
viii 
 
 industries were hiring mostly for replacement.  Dallas reported that firms in the energy industry 
experienced significant regional layoffs as a resu lt of the deepwater drilling moratorium.  San 
Francisco noted continued high levels of unemployment and limited hiring. 
Wage pressures remained largely contained acr oss most Districts.  Boston, Philadelphia, 
Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported little or no change in wages, while 
Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas City reported that wage pressu res were small or remained 
subdued.  Dallas reported that wage pressures were mostly nonexistent, with the exception of the 
airline industry.   
Prices of final goods and servi ces were relatively stable in  most Districts.  Several 
Districts indicated that prices of raw materials also held steady, and only a few Districts reported 
input price increases.  Steel pr ices moved slightly higher in the San Francisco District, but 
Cleveland and Chicago reported that steel prices  were down.  Chicago and San Francisco noted 
an increase in energy prices, but Atlanta reported that energy prices were mostly stable since the 
onset of the Gulf oil spill.  Increased prices were noted for some metals by the Philadelphia, 
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts.  Transportation costs increased in the Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, and the Richmond District noted that shipping lines were attempting 
to raise rates. 
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON  
Business activity continues to expand overall in the First District, but individual firms’ gains 
show some choppiness. Most contacted manufacturers and advertising and cons ulting firms saw revenues 
rise in the most recent quarter on a year-over-year basi s, while retail results were more mixed in May and 
June. Residential real estate markets continue to show positive effects of the homebuyer tax credits, but 
activity slowed after the April deadline. Respondents in commercial real estate were mostly downbeat 
based on office job forecasts, but building sales are pi cking up, in some cases at distress prices. A few 
firms with rising sales are increasing their headcounts, but most are holding employment steady. Input 
costs for some metals, oil- and food-related produc ts have risen, but sales prices are mostly stable. 
Retail  
First District retailers report mixed sales results  for May and June; year-over-year same-store 
sales figures range from down close to 3 percent to incr eases of about 3 percent. The majority of contacts 
express concern over consumer confidence, and ev en those retailers reporting sales increases voice a 
cautious outlook.  
Inventory levels are mixed, with some increas es due to softening sales; on the other hand, 
decreased ocean freight capacity is raising concerns re garding firms’ ability to restock in a cost-effective 
and timely manner. Capital spending is also mixed, with some retailers spending on new store openings, remodels, and IT systems, while others remain ca utious. Headcounts are growing modestly, with most 
increases attributed to opportunistic hiring and new store growth, but a few contacts indicate that staff 
cutbacks may occur in the future. Retailers note cost increases for co tton and food-related commodities.  
Manufacturing and Related Services 
Many manufacturing firms are still finalizing their second quarter results, but the vast majority of 
those contacted report optimism about demand. Th e specific sales reports range from “extraordinary 
demand” at a semiconductor firm to less-than-an ticipated demand at two firms making life science 
equipment and medical devices. In particular, the semiconductor firm reports sales in the second quarter 
were 17 percent above their pre-recession peak. Othe r semiconductor-related firms also report relatively 
strong sales. In addition, second quarter results appear to be somewhat better than expected at a business 
services company as well as a company whose sales of outdoor-related products benefited from the warmer-than-average temperatures. By contrast, among firms reporting weaker-than-expected sales 
growth, one speculated that it was due to a slowdown in  European demand and the other to state and local 
budgetary cutbacks on medical equipment. In general, n early all of the manufacturers surveyed feel that 
demand will continue to improve gradually in th e second half of the year as well as in 2011.  
Most contacted manufacturing firms continue to report limited price pressure. Input costs remain 
relatively stable. One manufacturer who uses many raw metals in the production process says that prices remain higher than a year ago, but have come down somewhat since the first quarter. A couple of firms 
who use oil-related products also report somewhat hi gher input prices. Selling prices are generally fairly 
stable. One manufacturer that implemented a moderate (3 percent) price increase in the first quarter says 
that the increase held. By contrast, a firm that makes both capital equipment and consumables cites 
 
I - 2 
downward price pressure on the capital goods they sell (as companies remain wary about the costs of 
large items), but not on the consumables;  this has been the case for about a year. 
Employment continues to be steady at nearly all responding manufacturing firms, and most say 
they are unlikely to expand headcount substantially in the near term. A number of firms plan to hire to 
support new product lines or in divisions that are experiencing robust growth. A semiconductor-related 
firm, in particular, plans to increase its engineering workforce by about 150 by year-end; that firm’s employment is already above its pre-recession peak due to strong demand.  
Manufacturers once again report that their planned 2010 capital expenditures are in line with or 
somewhat higher than their expenditures in 2009.  Planned increases are primarily for new product 
releases and/or infrastructure and IT-related improve ments. Credit supply remains adequate for firm 
investment, and many manufacturers also report having adequate cash on hand for investment purposes.  
Overall, contacted manufacturers are generally optimistic about the second half of 2010 and 
2011. The firms remain cautious, however, as uncertainty continues to surround the domestic and foreign demand environments.  
Selected Business Services  
Consulting and advertising contacts in the Firs t District generally report increased demand for 
their services in the second quarter of 2010, alth ough a few say demand is flat. Among those seeing 
increases, revenue rose 8 percent to 25 percent year- over-year. Contacts cite healthcare and private equity 
industries as markets in which activity increased; a consulting firm also notes a significant increase in 
demand from the U.S. government regarding intern ational development and healthcare issues. One 
contact reports that the payment cycle from its clie nts lengthened in the second quarter, slowing revenue 
growth.  
Consulting and marketing firms indicate that business costs are stable and they are also generally 
holding their list prices steady, although some firms ha ve been able to remove the price concessions they 
made in 2009. Several companies mention that they are replacing their laptops and purchasing new 
software licenses. Employment is mostly steady, with firms simply making replacement hires or modestly 
increasing the number of employees; more hires are e xpected in the second half of the year. Wages are 
either stable or rising slightly, by 2 percent to 5 percent.  
Advertising and consulti ng contacts are optimistic about their firms’ performance in the second 
half of the year, primarily based on the increasing volume of sales and the improving economic situation. However, many respondents see downside risks to this outlook, notably the chance of a double-dip 
recession; firms that contract with the government also note that budget cuts in response to deficit 
concerns would harm their businesses.  
Commercial Real Estate 
Commercial real estate contacts give mixed reports this round. Leasing activity is flat in Hartford, 
where market sentiment remains subdued. Between the first and second quarters, Hartford’s office 
vacancy rate rose by close to 2 percentage points wh ile rents were roughly flat. Industrial vacancy in 
Hartford also rose over the quarter, but by less than a percentage point, and industrial rents were flat. 
Hartford’s investment sales market remains largel y dormant. The word from Providence is more upbeat, 
 
I - 3 
as leasing activity remained solid in recent weeks an d rents have reportedly stabilized. Business sentiment 
in Providence is described as more optimistic and less uncertain than it was earlier in the year. Absorption 
was roughly zero across Rhode Island. Office-buildi ng sales in Rhode Island remain scarce, but the 
industrial sales market saw some significant transacti ons. In Boston, one contact remains largely negative 
about current market conditions and near-term pros pects, emphasizing slow job growth and the high 
office vacancy rate—currently around 20 percent in  greater Boston. Leasing velocity is described as 
either steady or up slightly, but tenants retain very  strong bargaining power on rents and improvements. 
Contacts say investors are bidding aggressively for fu lly leased, high-quality properties in greater Boston, 
especially apartment buildings; at the same time, some investors are purchasing distressed properties 
(with high vacancy rates) in the suburban corridor at steep discounts and betting on a solid recovery.  
With regard to commercial real estate debt markets, one noteworthy development is that special 
servicers (who manage CMBS issues) are reportedly starting to dispose of an increasing number of 
securitized mortgages in default rather than continuing to extend troubled loans. This trend is expected to 
accelerate over the next 6 to 12 months. At the same tim e, banks continue to hold large sums of distressed 
commercial real estate debt and have not yet initiate d large numbers of foreclosures. Contacts across the 
region remain concerned about the potential impact of inevitable foreclosures, especially if a large 
number occur in a compressed time period; contacts say, however, that New England is likely to fare 
relatively well compared to other regions w ith respect to commercial foreclosures.  
In Hartford, expectations for market turnaround we re pushed back a quarter, out to late 2010. In 
Boston, contacts expect net absorption to remain slow , and predict that office rents still have further to 
fall, but were uncertain as to whether job growth  (and related demand for commercial space) would 
continue at current levels or become weaker in  the second half of 2010. The outlook for Providence is 
cautiously optimistic, but “optimistic” was defined as sl ow growth rather than further deterioration.  
Residential Real Estate  
Residential real estate markets in New England continue to experience large year-over-year sales 
increases in May and into June. Median home prices also increased modestly year-over-year in May, although median condo prices were somewhat mixed. Wh ile April 30 was the deadline to sign a “binding 
sales contract” in order to be eligible for the homebuyer tax credits, buyers are allowed to close these deals as late as September 30 (ext ended from June 30). The strong sales numbers of May and June thus 
reflect closings on pre-April 30 contracts spurred by  the tax credits. Respondents report that activity has 
slowed considerably since the expiration of the tax credit. Sales numbers will soften over the next couple 
of months as a result of this slowdown, although respondents are uncertain whether sales will show year-over-year declines. Pending sales of homes and c ondos in Massachusetts dropped 16 percent and 21 
percent year-over-year in June, respectively. 
A New Hampshire contact says that some types of  homes are still selling well, notably those in 
convenient locations near major highways. Meanwhile,  prices in rural New Hampshire are “plummeting.”  
In addition, high-end vacation homes are starting to move again after very low activity during 2008 and 
2009. A Boston-area contact believes that pent-up demand among potential buyers (because inventory 
was low) will help moderate the size of the slowdow n associated with the expiration of the tax credit. 
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has shown further signs of strengthening, on balance, since the 
last report.  Input price pressures have receded a bit, while consumer prices appear to be steady.  There 
are signs of improvement in the labor market across a range of industries.  Manufacturing-sector contacts 
report some recent leveling off in business activity, after a strong second quarter.  General merchandise retailers report ongoing improvement in business, with sales running on or above plan and inventories reported to be at favorable levels.  Auto dealers re port that sales have tapered off in recent weeks but 
remain ahead of 2009 levels.  Tourism activity in New York City has continued to be robust since the last report, helped by a reported pickup in business travel.  Commercial real estate markets have generally been steady since the last report, while residential real estate markets have shown signs of softening.  Finally, bankers report a pickup in demand for both consumer and home mortgage loans but some slippage in demand for commercial loans and mortgages; they also report declining consumer delinquency rates and less widespread tightening in credit standards than in recent months.  
Consumer Spending  
Non-auto retailers report that sales have remained on or above plan since the last report, with 
comparable-store gains of roughly 5 percent over a year earlier in June and 8-12 percent in early July.  
Contacts report particular strength at New York City  stores, whereas a major mall in upstate New York 
indicates more moderate growth.  Contacts generally indicate that sales of fashion items and apparel were particularly strong, whereas sales of big-ticket appliances were relatively sluggish.  Inventories are reported to be at satisfactory levels, while selling prices  are stable to down slightly; prices are expected to 
remain steady during the second half of 2010 and rise modestly in 2011.  
An association of auto dealers in upstate New Yo rk reports that sales of new autos, which were 
up 10 percent from a year earlier in May, retreated a bit in June but were still up moderately from comparable 2009 levels.  Used auto sales have been running lower than a year ago, due largely to lean 
 
 II-2 
inventories.  Dealers report that retail credit conditions have remained favorable and that wholesale credit 
conditions have improved.  Consumer confidence w eakened noticeably in June: The Conference Board 
reports that confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) fell to its lowest level this year, and Siena College’s latest survey of New York State residents shows confidence slipping to its lowest level in more than a year. 
Tourism activity in New York City has grown increasingly robust since the last report.  
Manhattan hotels indicate that occupancy rates rose to  a record high for May and remained exceptionally 
high in June—even with a sizable increase in the number of hotel rooms over the past year.  Room rates are running 10 to 15 percent higher than a year earlier, and total revenues are reported to be up more than 20 percent.  Much of the recent improvement is attributed to a rebound in business travel.  Broadway theaters report that attendance remained brisk in June but tapered off moderately in early July.  Revenues 
were up 3 percent from a year earlier in June and little changed in July.   
Construction and Real Estate 
Housing markets have softened somewhat, on balance, since the last report, with much of the 
weakening attributed to the expiration of the home-buyer tax credit.  An authority on New Jersey’s 
housing industry characterizes housi ng demand as sluggish and lacking momentum.  Activity has tapered 
off, while transaction prices for both new and existi ng homes appear to be drifting down.  Northern New 
Jersey’s rental market has also slackened, with a growing number of available units on the market and 
landlords offering more incentives and concessions; a number of buildings initially intended as condos 
have converted to rentals.  Similarly, Buffalo-ar ea Realtors report that home sales activity weakened 
substantially in May and June, reportedly due largel y to the expiration of the extended homebuyers’ tax 
credit, though selling prices continued to run ahead of comparable 2009 levels.   
In New York City, conditions were more mixed, with co-op and condo sales activity picking up 
in the second quarter but prices generally holding steady.  The number of apartment sales rose by a bit 
 
 II-3 
more than the seasonal norm in the first quarter.  The median sales price of an apartment was down 7 
percent from a year ago in Queens but up 5 percent in Brooklyn.  In Manhattan, the median price rose roughly 8 percent from a year earlier, but the price per square foot was virtually unchanged.  Manhattan’s rental market, though still well below its peak of a fe w years ago, appears to be on the rebound: leasing 
activity picked up noticeably, rents have stabilized, landlords are giving less generous concessions, and 
the inventory of available rentals has declined.   
Commercial real estate markets across the District were mixed but, on balance, little changed 
since the last report.  Office leasing activity picked up considerably in New York City, and vacancy rates declined modestly, but asking rents are still down more than 20 percent from a year ago.  Vacancy rates were steady in Long Island and Northern New Jersey, while asking rents were down slightly—compared to both the first quarter and a year earlier.  In Westchester and Fairfield counties, market conditions improved slightly, as vacancy rates edged down and asking rents rose.  Office markets were mixed in upstate New York: vacancy rates edged up in most major markets but asking rents continued to run modestly above year-ago levels.  Industrial markets we re mostly softer in the second quarter: industrial 
vacancy rates rose across most of upstate New York and in Westchester and Fairfield counties but were 
little changed in Long Island and down modestly in northern New Jersey.  Industrial rents were down moderately from a year ago in most areas.  Finally , Manhattan’s retail leasing market picked up in the 
second quarter, while northern New Jersey’s remained stable.  Commercial development remains very sluggish in general, though developers plan fu rther hotel construction in New York City.  
Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing firms in the District report some le veling off in business activ ity in recent weeks, 
after reporting fairly widespread improvement in the second quarter.  Firms still report that they are adding workers, on net, but to a less widespread degree than in recent months.  Contacts outside the manufacturing sector, however, report some recent improvement in general business conditions and a 
 
 II-4 
pickup in employment.  Contacts also remain fairly optimistic about the near term outlook and plan to 
expand hiring activity and capital spending moderately in the months ahead.  Both manufacturers and other firms report moderate increases in prices pa id but virtually no change in selling prices.    
A major NYC employment agency, specializing in office jobs, reports that hiring activity has 
picked up since the last report, as demand from the le gal sector remains brisk and financial sector hiring 
has picked up in recent weeks.  Salaries for administra tive jobs have started to edge up.  There has been a 
relatively light flow of 2010 college grads looking for jobs.  Separately, a securities-industry contact notes that, while there are ongoing layoffs in certain areas related to mergers and restructuring, major firms are hiring in the areas of accounting, compliance, and systems development.  Compensation at large financial firms is reported to be holding relatively steady.   
Financial Developments  
Contacts at small to medium sized banks in the District report that loan demand was mixed across 
the consumer and commercial loan groups: demand tended to increase for consumer loans and residential 
mortgages but decrease for commercial mortgages and commercial and industrial loans.  This marks the first time since 2005 that more respondents reported rising than falling consumer loan demand.   Bankers’ responses also suggest a continue d increase in refinancing activity. 
Respondents indicate a tightening of credit standards for all categories except consumer loans, 
though the tightening across all segments is reported to be less widespread than it has been at any time in 
the past three years.  Spreads of loans rates over cost of funds are indicated to be steady for consumer loans and residential mortgages but higher on commercial loans and mortgages.  Banks mostly indicate that average deposit rates have decreased.  Finally, respondents reported a decrease in delinquency rates for consumer loans but little or no change in delinquencies in other loan categories.   
III - 1 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Economic activity has moved up slightly in th e Third District sin ce the last Beige Book, 
overall, although several sectors of the region al economy remained soft. Manufacturers, on 
balance, reported an increase in shipments but a slight decline in new or ders in July. Retailers 
posted year-over-year increases in sales of gene ral merchandise for the month, but motor vehicle 
dealers indicated that sales have decreased sin ce the spring. Third District banks reported steady 
loan volume outstanding. Residentia l real estate agents and home builders said that home sales 
decreased sharply with the expiration in April of the federal tax credit for purchases and that 
sales have continued to be soft since then. Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said 
vacancy rates have been nearly level, but rents have been fl at to down. Construction contacts 
continued to report low levels of  activity. Service-sector companies generally reported just slight 
gains in activity. Business firms in the region indi cated that prices of most goods and services 
have been steady, although there were increased reports of rising prices for some metals and 
construction-related products. Firms also repo rted increases in costs for employee health 
insurance. 
The outlook among Third District business contacts  is guardedly positiv e, but the level of 
optimism has waned somewhat since the last Beige Book. Manufacturers forecast a rise in 
shipments and orders during the next six mont hs, although the balance of positive over negative 
views has declined since the previ ous report. Retailers expect sale s to expand slightly but believe 
consumer confidence remains fragile. Auto dealer s expect the sales rate  to be steady in the 
months ahead, retreating from th eir previous view that sales would increase. Bankers expect 
slow growth in lending. Contacts in both residential and commer cial real estate expect mostly 
flat activity during the rest of  the year. Service-sector companies expect slow and uneven 
improvement. 
 
Manufacturing 
Third District manufacturers re ported a modest increase in sh ipments but a slight decline 
in new orders from June to July, on balance. Order backlogs also fell, overall. Among the major manufacturing industries in the region, producers of wood products, chemicals, and basic 
III - 2 
materials reported increases in orders; but orders  were unchanged or declined in a majority of 
manufacturing sectors. In general, manufacturer s continued to describe  the increase in demand 
for their products as slow and uneven. One manu facturer said, “It has been very choppy. We 
seem to be getting some tr action, then orders dry up.”  
Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to improve during the next six 
months, on balance, although the margin of positive opinions over negative opinions has 
declined since the previous Beige Book. Among the firms surveyed in July, about 40 percent 
expect increases in new orders and shipments, and 20 percent e xpect decreases. Capital spending 
plans among area manufacturers remain positive, on balance, but are not strong overall. About 
one-third of the firms polled in July plan to increase expenditures for new plant and equipment, 
but nearly one-half plan to maintain level spending, and nearly one-f ourth expect to reduce 
spending. 
 
Retail 
Third District retailers reported that sales in June increased slightly compared with June 
of last year and that year-over- year growth continued at around the same modest pace in July. 
Most retailers said warm weathe r boosted sales of summer appare l, and some noted increases in 
sales of jewelry, but many reported that sales of  home goods, especially big-ticket appliances, 
remained weak. Store executives continued to  caution that much of the year-over-year 
improvement in sales was a consequence of last year’s poor results and th at this easy comparison 
will also affect the upcoming back-to-school and year-end holiday period. Most retail contacts 
agreed with the evaluation of a store official who said, “The consumer is still cautious and 
looking for value.” 
Third District auto dealers reported a drop in sales from May to June, with continued 
slowness in July. Although dealers said there continue to be shortages of popular models, they said overall demand for cars and light trucks has not been as strong recently as it was earlier in 
the year. Dealers have trimmed expectations since the last Beige Book; they  now anticipate little 
change in the sales rate during the rest of the year. 
 
  
III - 3 
Finance 
Total outstanding loan volume at most of th e Third District banks contacted for this 
report has been flat since the last Beige Book, and commercial bank lendi ng officers said there 
has been little change in loan balances in any credit category. Some bankers reported that 
demand for business loans has increased, but dema nd for residential real estate and consumer 
credit has eased. Commercial bank officers indicated that credit quality has continued to improve 
slightly, but delinquencies and defaults remain a bove historical norms.  
Looking ahead, Third District bankers expect sl ow loan growth, at best. They generally 
expect slight gains in business lending but c ontinued softness in c onsumer and residential 
mortgage lending. Bank lending officers said credit st andards remain more re strictive than they 
had been in the past few years. For business borr owers, one banker said this means a firm “must 
have stable relationships with customers and vendors and show reasonable expectations about 
cash flow” to be considered for ne w or renewed cred it facilities.  
 Real Estate and Construction 
Contacts in residential real estate markets re ported sharp decreases in sales of new and 
existing homes after the expiration of the federal income tax credit for home purchases in April. The sales pace continued to be slow in July, according to real estate agents and builders. 
Residential real estate contacts e xpect sales during the rest of the year to be weak. One agent, 
whose remarks echoed many others’, commented that “There was a lot of front loading to take advantage of the tax credit, and it remains to be seen how much activity there will be going forward.” For both new and existi ng homes, contacts reported little change in prices, although in 
some parts of the region where foreclosures and s hort sales have been comm on, real estate agents 
said existing house prices continue d to be under downward pressure. 
Nonresidential real estate fi rms indicated that vacancy rates in commercial and industrial 
buildings have been nearly steady or have moved up slightly in most  parts of the Third District in 
the past few months. Leasing activity has been flat , and effective rents have been about level for 
Class A space but have moved down for Class B space.  Construction activity has been weak. 
Some contacts reported that proj ects financed by federal stimul us funds are near completion or 
have been finished and that there are no imme diate prospects for more major infrastructure 
construction. Commercial real esta te contacts expect market condi tions to show little change in 
III - 4 
the second half of the year. One said, “We’re stabilizing, but if compan ies cut space needs the 
market will be dragged down.” 
 
Services 
Service-sector firms generally reported s light improvement since the last Beige Book. 
Transportation companies reported increases in freight volume, and some information 
technology service providers have  had slight recent increases in business. However, firms 
providing services to the construc tion industry continued to report low levels of activity. Looking 
ahead, most of the services firms contacted for this  report expect growth to  be slow and irregular 
for the rest of the year. One contact noted, “Dem and from customers is coming only on a project 
basis.”  
 Prices and Wages 
Reports on input costs and output  prices indicate little chan ge since the last Beige Book. 
Most of the manufacturing firms polled in July reported no change from June in the costs of the 
commodities they use or the products they make. However, producers of primary metals raised 
prices. Home builders noted some increases in pri ces for lumber and drywall. Retailers generally 
noted that both wholesale costs and retail pri ces have been mostly steady. Across industries, 
firms reported increases in heal th-care costs as they negotiate new insurance contracts. 
Business firms in the region reported little or  no upward movement in wages, and most 
indicated that they have had no difficulty in filling open positions. Employment agencies reported that client companies have been cauti ous in adding employees or replacing those who 
have left, although they have increased use of temporary workers on an as-needed basis. Labor 
markets remain slack, according to employers an d employment agencies, who report that they 
generally get large numbers of a pplicants for permanent positions; however, they also noted that 
they get smaller numbers of applicants for temporary positions. 
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT  – CLEVELAND 
On balance, economic activity in the Fourth District held steady during the past seven 
weeks.  Manufacturers reported th at the rise in production which be gan late last year is leveling 
off.  Contacts in nonres idential constructi on cited fewer inquiries and a small drop in backlog, 
while residential builders noted th at new home constructi on has slowed.  Retail sales were flat to 
up slightly, whereas auto dealers reported a s light downturn in new vehicle purchases.  Energy 
production increased modestly, a nd reports indicated a continui ng upturn in freight transport 
volume.  Demand by businesses and consumers for new loans remained weak.    
A small pickup in employment was limited to  the manufacturing sector.  Staffing-firm 
representatives reported some improvement in the number of new job openings, with 
opportunities concentrated in the he althcare field. Wage pressure s continue to be contained.  
Apart from a downward trend in steel and lumber  prices, raw materials and product pricing was 
generally stable.     
Manufacturing.  Reports from District f actories show that production levels were mainly 
steady or down slightly during the past seven weeks.  Manufact urers who cited increased output 
attributed it to seasonal factor s.  Production was higher on a y ear-over-year basis, with many 
contacts citing double-digit increa ses.  A large majority of respondents believe that demand 
growth seen earlier this year is  tapering off, and they expect production will stabilize at current 
levels or show a modest decline.  Most stee l producers and service cen ters reported a slight 
downturn in volume, which was expected.  Sh ipments are being driven primarily by energy-
related and metal fabrication industries.  Constr uction volume remains very weak.  Although this 
time of year is traditionally slow  for the steel industry, our cont acts are not overly confident that 
shipments will pick up in the fourth quarter.  District auto production was fairly stable in June on 
a month-over-month basis, while year-over-year it  rose substantially for both domestic and 
foreign nameplates.   
  Little movement was seen in inventories, although we heard a few reports that finished 
durable goods inventories were beginning to rise.  A majority of our contacts stated that their 
capacity utilizat ion rates are below pre-recession levels, with little change during the past few 
weeks.  Capital outlays continue at relatively low levels, and business owners are approaching 
spending decisions with caution.  Steel producers a nd service center representatives reported that 
their prices are on the d ecline, reflecting a downward trend in steel production input costs.  Other 
IV - 2  
raw material costs have been fa irly stable.  Companies continue  to expand payrolls and extend 
work hours, but at a slower pace.  Wage pressures are contained.  
Real Estate.  In general, new home sales have slowed  during the past seven weeks and 
on a year-over-year basis.  Most of our contacts cited tight credit as one of the primary factors 
contributing to the slowdown.  Homebuilders ar e not expecting a turnaround in new home 
construction this year, with several anticipating a further decline in sales.  Our contacts tell us 
that entry-level homes are beginning to regain sales momentum, with lessening activity in the 
move-up and third-time home-buyer categories.  Little change was noted in the list prices of new 
houses, and reports indicate that the rise in construction material co sts is leveling off, especially 
for lumber products.  Skeleton crews remain the norm for general contract ors and subcontractors. 
Signs of a pickup in nonresid ential construction cited in our past  two reports are 
beginning to diminish.  Although building activ ity remains steady, several of our contacts 
reported declining inquiries and a slight drop in their backlogs.  Most inquiries and new projects 
underway fall within the industria l and government-funded infrastructu re categories.  The glut in 
commercial space shows no signs of lessening.  Half of our contacts expre ssed a heightened level 
of uncertainty about constructi on activity in the near term, though others remain cautiously 
optimistic.  Little change in construction ma terial costs was reported.  We heard numerous 
accounts of contractors and client s struggling to obtain financing.  Other th an seasonal hiring, 
employment rolls are steady.   Many subcontractors remain underutilized and are taking on 
projects at cost.    
Consumer Spending.  For the period from mid-Ma y through mid-June, retail  sales were 
generally flat or up slightly when compared to th e previous 30-day period.  Purchases of apparel 
and food products are doing well, while spendi ng on discretionary it ems has weakened.  
Retailers are somewhat less optimistic about future  sales than in our la st report; however, they 
still expect buying to show a small improvement going into the fourth quart er.  Vendor and store 
pricing has been stable.  Most  auto dealers saw new vehicle sales slow from mid-May through 
mid-June, when compared with the previous 30 days.  Dealers indicated that the rising sales trend present in the spring has leve led off, and they are not expecti ng a return to robust growth in 
the near term.  Many dealers said that their inventories are low, wh ich was attributed to seasonal 
factors.  Used vehicle purchases were characteri zed as holding up reasonably well.  Our contacts 
told us that they are finding it more challenging to arrange financing for customers with less than 
IV - 3  
the highest credit rating.  Reports show little change in staffing levels at reta ilers or auto dealers.  
Banking.  The market  for business lending remains soft, with bankers characterizing the 
demand for new loans as flat to improving slightly.  Interest rates are stable.  On the consumer 
side, loan demand is generally weak.  Those seeing a slight uptick attributed it to draw-downs on 
home equity lines of credit.  We heard a few re ports of downward pressure  on auto loan rates.  
The residential mortgage market continues at a slow pace, with several bankers noting that 
activity is below expectations, given current mort gage rates.  Core deposits are steady or up at 
most banks, with much of the growth occurr ing in transaction account s.  Reports on credit 
quality were mixed.  Delinquency rates declined or he ld stable for nearly all banks; still, several 
of our contacts noted that delinquencies remain  above historic norms.  Employment rolls and 
wages are stable.   
Energy.  Reports show little change in oil and natural gas output during the past seven 
weeks, with output expected to re main flat in the near term.  Spot prices for natural gas rose 
slightly, while oil prices dropped.  Reports on co al production have grown more positive.  Export 
producers are experiencing increased demand fo r both steam and metallu rgical coal, while 
unseasonably warm weather increased the demand for co al by electric utilities.  Prices for coal 
were mixed but are tending to the up side.  Pr oduction equipment and materials costs were 
generally flat.  Staffing levels ar e steady, and little hiring is expect ed in the near future.  Wage 
pressures are contained.  
Transportation.  Freight transport executives repor ted continuing favorable volume 
trends, with only moderate gains to their botto m lines.  Although most of our contacts are 
cautiously optimistic in their outlook, they expect that the rate of volume growth experienced in 
the second quarter will begin to moderate.  On e contact noted industry-wide concern over the 
strength of consumer demand.  Several responde nts commented that they are attempting to 
negotiate rate increases, with some  degree of success.  Major capital purchases remain at or near 
replacement rates.  However, due to aging fleets and growing demand, the need to replace 
equipment may grow toward year-end.  Several of  our contacts noted that quoted prices for 
tractors and trailers are rising.  Current hiring is primar ily for replacement only.  If volume 
continues to build, freight executives expect to add cap acity in the near term.   
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview. District economic activity was genera lly described as either mixed or 
modestly improving since our last report. While manufacturing remained a bright spot, the pace 
of activity reported in our last  assessment appears to have eased somewhat—particularly among 
firms supplying the housing sector. Port authoritie s reported a pick-up in activity, led by recent 
increases in import volumes. Bank lending to businesses improved moderately, while home 
mortgage lending varied widely ar ound the District. Tourism also strengthened. In  addition, local 
labor markets posted modest gains, with temp agencies reporting gains especially from the 
manufacturing sector. On a weaker note, residential real estate agents and contacts at other 
services firms described activity as mixed. Finall y, commercial real estate  agents and retailers 
reported generally softer market  conditions, but both sectors c ited at least some pockets of 
improvement. 
 Retail.  Retail sales weakened since ou r last report. Several auto dealers reported that light 
vehicle sales dropped, and a North Carolina medical  devices supplier said payers were trying to 
negotiate lower reimbursement rates on durable me dical equipment. In addition, a contact at a 
large home and garden chain reported that impulse buying fell, and that home remodeling 
purchases had scaled back dramatically as cons umers “splurged small.” Overall, according to our 
District survey, big-tic ket purchases and shopper traffic pl ummeted. Many District retailers 
indicated that inventories continued to decline in  recent weeks. Merchants increasingly cut jobs, 
and retail prices advanced only slight ly faster since our last report. 
 Services.   Contacts and survey respo ndents at non-retail services firms reported mixed 
activity during the past four week s. For example, several businesses indicated that their revenues 
had contracted, while others reported an uptic k, with the caveat that they are not seeing 
significant strengthening in their markets. Seve ral contacts at profe ssional, scientific, and 
technical firms said their businesses experienced  increased demand for services since our last 
report, while a financial advisor at an investment services firm  said conditions were “stable.” 
Several healthcare-related businesse s cited little change in demand in recent weeks, but a West 
Virginia nursing home administrator said the economy and healthcare reform put downward 
pressure on his business. Many respondents to ou r service sector survey  reported that price 
increases slowed at services firms.  
 Manufacturing.  District manufacturing continued to  expand in June and early July, 
albeit at a slower pace than a few months ago. Most of our District survey respondents reported 
 V-2  
that growth in their shipments and new orders had moderated, while several contacts noted that 
their employment edged higher. A parts supplier re ported a significant increase in demand from 
auto manufacturers, with busine ss being well ahead of expectati ons. In addition, a tire producer 
informed us that his customers had depleted th eir inventories, which caused him to expect an 
increase in orders soon. Moreover, a contact at a textile plant commented that his company had 
built inventory in anticipation of continued price increases for synthetic fibers. He noted, however, that his customers continued to maintain  low inventory levels, with current sales higher 
than replenishment rates. In contrast, a furn iture manufacturer noted  that his company had 
reduced its workforce by half due to weak c onditions in the housing market. Similarly, a 
manufacturer of exterior doors for residential housing indicated that the previous uptick in 
demand for building products had now vanished
. 
Port activity in the District picked up since our last report. One cont act stated that total 
shipping volume at his port was back to pre-re cession levels. While e xports had been improving 
over much of this year, he noted that imports we re now increasing as well . A contact that handles 
a variety of roll-on carg o stated that about two-thirds of the recent gains in port activity were 
being driven by imports. At least some of the import gains were attributed to inventory 
restocking. Several port official s noted that shipping lines were  attempting to raise rates. 
 Finance.  Banking activity over the last six to ei ght weeks improved modestly, but gains 
were uneven. For example, several bankers not ed an increase in co mmercial lending, although 
one lender stated that commerc ial lending had weakened. Contact s noted that increased lending 
went to support high-tech and e xport activity, as well as auto d ealer inventory. An increase in 
merger and acquisition activity was also noted  by several sources. One banker reported a 
marginal improvement in small business lending, while an analyst for a large bank reported a retrenchment in consumer borrowing. A small comm unity banker stated that the bank’s own auto 
loans had edged down as other banks returned to the market, increasing loan competition. Reports on home mortgage lending varied, wi th some bankers reporting improvements and 
others still experiencing declines. A loan officer at a communi ty bank stated that refinancing was 
a significant portion of his mortgage lending activ ity in recent weeks. Most  contacts stated that 
credit quality was slowly improving from a weak base, although one source noted that 
delinquencies on both residential and commerc ial loans were still “off the charts.”
  
Real Estate.   Reports from residential Realtors varied across th e Fifth District. Several 
contacts reported that home sales slowed sin ce the expiration of the federal government’s tax 
 V-3  
credit program. However, othe r contacts indicated that sales in the upper-middle price bracket 
were still moving, at least in some areas of the District, while one agent noted that single-family 
homes in suburban neighborhoods were experienci ng the most activity. A nother agent reported 
that houses priced below $150K remained the best  sellers, due to more foreclosure-related and 
short sales. A Realtor in Richmond reported that  the metropolitan market in recent weeks did not 
meet the company’s expectations in July. An agent for a major realty chain noted that the 
average number of days on the market for most homes remained high.   
Commercial real estate market s continued to weaken since ou r last report, with at least 
one contact not expecting improvements until well into the future. According to one contact in 
North Carolina, vacancy rates in most metro areas remained relatively high and were still rising 
in some areas. Vacancy rates were particularly  high in the retail sect or in both Richmond and 
Baltimore, according to several agents. Retail an d office leasing activity was reported to be 
improving in Columbia, S.C., as well as in parts of North Carolina. Commercial rental rates in 
parts of North Carolina were being driven down by property owners’ fears that things could get 
worse, and an agent stated that retail rental rates remained negotiable in Richmond. One contact 
stated that new construction financing was “not going at all.” 
 Tourism.  Tourist activity increased since our last  report. Along the coast, contacts 
reported that bookings over the July 4th holiday weekend were much stronger than a year ago. A 
hotelier from Virginia Beach noted that his hotel  was filled to capacity, even though room rates 
had jumped dramatically. A contact in Myrtle Be ach said that visitation was up 10 to 12 percent 
in recent weeks compared to a year ago, but consumer spending was s till below pre-recession 
levels. He attributed some of the increase in visits and spending to tourists changing vacation 
plans from the Gulf to the eastern seaboard. More over, an analyst from the Outer Banks of North 
Carolina indicated that restaurants were full and sa les at gift shops were flourishing. Managers at 
mountain resorts reported th at holiday reservations were the best in years and that time shares 
were rented for most of the summer. They not ed, however, that although tourists were spending 
slightly less on food, they were spending cons iderably more on recr eational activities and 
merchandise.  
Labor Markets.   Labor market activity picked up sli ghtly in recent weeks, according to 
most contacts. Several firms reported adding jobs for at least a third straight month. A services 
firm increased its hiring due to rising demand, bu t several retailers reported job cuts. Temporary 
employment agents reported slow, but stea dy increases in hiring by small or mid-sized 
 V-4  
businesses—especially in manufacturing. For exampl e, a contact at an automotive plant told us 
that temporary employment worker s had been hired to help with the increase in production. One 
temp agent noted an increase in the number of  employees being hired on a permanent basis by 
his clients. Increased demand for temporary workers was reported for a diverse set of industries, 
including warehouse and distribution centers, manufacturing plants, and pharmaceutical firms.  
Most respondents to our manuf acturing and service sector surv eys indicated that wages were 
little changed since our last report.  
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that the pace 
of economic activity slowed somewhat in June  and early July. Retail ers reported a slight 
increase in traffic and sales,  but their outlook was less optim istic than the last report. 
Tourism reports were generally positive, how ever, significant concerns were expressed 
over the potential impact from the oil spill on the Gulf coast. Residential real estate 
contacts suggested that the pace of new a nd existing home sales slowed, and their outlook 
was pessimistic. Commercial real estate remained weak. Manufacturers saw a slight 
deceleration in activity as the pace of ne w orders and production growth slowed. Banking 
credit conditions remained tight and loan demand was subdued. Businesses continued to 
increase the hours worked of existing staff a nd to expand their use of temporary hires. 
Permanent hires were less apparent. Transpor tation and material costs rose slightly, but 
most firms expressed no intention of passing these increases along to consumers.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Most District merchants noticed a slight 
increase in traffic and sales in June and early July. Retailers also mentioned that despite 
the uptick in sales, they continued to keep inventor y levels low. Although most 
merchants have reported improved conditions si nce the beginning of the year, sales levels 
remained well below pre-recession levels. The outlook among retailers was more 
subdued than in previous months. Automotive dealers reported that sales improved from 
a year ago.  
Overall, tourism continued to show signs  of improvement compared with last 
year. Reports from Miami and New Orleans indicated that business-related travel and convention bookings remained positive. Leisure travel was positive in most District 
destinations except for the Gulf coast where significant concerns were reported over the 
oil spill and its impact on tourism. Hospitali ty contacts in the area remarked that some 
cancelled bookings have been substituted by th e presence of clean-up crews, oil company 
workers, and the National Guard. Contacts not located along the Gulf coast have stated 
that there have been increased bookings as a result of deflected business from oil-affected 
areas.  
Real Estate and Construction.  District residential re al estate brokers and 
homebuilders reported that home sales weaken ed notably in June and early July on a 
VI-2 
year-over-year basis. Contacts also indicated that sales fe ll on a month-over-month basis. 
However, several brokers remarked that June  sales were boosted by closings associated 
with the housing stimulus. Buyer traffic con tinued to soften acro ss the region. Realtors 
noted that existing home inventories rose out side of Florida on a year-over-year basis, 
while Florida inventories declined modestly. Similar inventory trends were seen on a 
month-over-month basis. New ho me inventories remained below the year-earlier level, 
and construction activity soften ed from already weak levels . Both Realtors and builders 
shared concerns about the housing market goi ng forward; the outlook weakened and sales 
growth over the next several months is anticipated to be slightly negative. 
Nonresidential construction activity con tinued to be weak. The majority of 
contacts noted that the pace of commercial development was below the year-earlier level 
and backlogs remained at low levels. Vacancy rates were high across the District and contacts witnessed downward pressure on rent s. The outlook for the rest of the year 
remained negative.   
 Manufacturing and Transportation.  Almost half of District manufacturers contacted stated that new orders and production grew at a slower pace in June than in the 
previous report. The number of firms expe riencing higher levels of orders decreased 
notably compared with the previous report,  while the number of contacts planning to 
expand production in the near future dropped as well. Freight activity remained above 
weak year-earlier levels, le d by increased shipments of motor vehicles, metals, and 
chemicals.   Banking and Finance.  Industry reports indicated that banking conditions 
weakened across much of the District.  Seve ral bankers reported that credit remained 
available to qualified customers.  Consumers seemed reluctant to take on additional debt, 
however.  Contacts also cited declining credit card use as consumers continued to 
deleverage. Business loan demand was also muted. 
Employment and Prices.  Private payroll employment increased slightly through 
early July across the District , although many businesses maintained a strong preference 
for increasing existing staff hours and using temporary staff rather th an hiring full-time, 
permanent employees. In addition, the outlook regarding labor market conditions along 
the Gulf coast remained tempered by the impact from the oil spill.  
VI-3 
Despite reports of raw materials and tran sportation cost increases, most firms 
conveyed no plans to pass the increases on to consumers. Several contacts remarked that 
excess production capacity and competiti on continued to put downward pressure on 
prices in a variet y of sectors.   
Natural Resources and Agriculture.   Local energy prices and oil production 
have remained mostly stable since the onset of the oil spill in late April. Gulf of Mexico 
crude inventories continued to hover near the top of their average range for this time of 
year. Nonetheless, a number of businesses ex pressed concern about the potential impact 
on long-term energy production and employ ment from the deepwater drilling 
moratorium.  Industry reports noted recertification of deep and shallow water rigs/wells 
was underway.  Meanwhile, contacts indicated that Gulf ports were operating normally and commerce along the Mississippi River remained uninterrupted. 
Dry conditions and high daytime temperat ures have resulted in some crop stress 
in parts of the District, but  conditions overall continued to be good for cotton and citrus 
crops. Cotton plantings have incr eased on a year-over-year basis. 
 
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  Economic activity in the Seventh Distri ct continued to improve in June and 
early July, but the rate of improvement slowed  further. Most contac ts remained cautiously 
optimistic. However, increased uncertainty about the path of the economic recovery negatively 
affected business and consumer confidence a nd spending. Growth in manufacturing production 
eased and orders softened. Construction decreased apart from public infrastructure. Consumer and 
business spending increased at a slower rate. Cred it conditions were slig htly improved, and price 
and wage pressures were small on balance.  Crop conditions dete riorated modestly. 
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending increased at a sl ower rate in June and early July. 
Retail sales excluding autos edged up. While spendi ng on food and other necessities rose, spending 
on home-related and luxury items decreased. Retailers reported maintaining relatively low 
inventories amid dampened optimism for the b ack-to-school shopping season. The pace of tourism 
activity also slowed with hotel occupancy increasing at a reduced rate. Auto sales were lower in 
June, but auto dealers reported showroom traffi c picked up in early July in part supported by 
increased incentives. In addition, se veral dealers indicated inventor ies were lower than desired.  
Business spending.  The rise in business spending modera ted further in June and early July. 
Inventory investment continued to  slow in manufacturing, and contac ts in retail trade indicated a 
slower rate of inventory i nvestment for higher priced goods. However, capital spending on 
equipment and information technology continued to steadily grow. Labor market conditions continued to gradually improve, although the pace of hiring decreased. Cont acts noted more caution 
in hiring primarily due to an increasingly uncer tain outlook for the second half of 2010. For 
example, while temporary hiring conti nued to increase, it did so at a slower rate. In contrast, a large 
staffing firm noted billable hours from the industria l sector remained strong and had accelerated for 
the information technology sector. Moreover, em ployment and hours worked continued to expand 
in manufacturing. 
Construction/real estate .  Construction activity decrea sed from the previous reporting 
period. Residential building was minimal as builder s were not introducing new inventory without a 
signed contract on a home. Sales de creased after the end of the home buyer tax credit,  but showroom 
traffic and contracts were up slightly in recent weeks. New mortgage applications were down, but the decline was partly offset by an increase in re finance activity as mortgage rates moved lower. 
Elevated vacancy rates and downward pressure on commercial rents continued to restrain private 
 
 VII-2
nonresidential construction. In c ontrast, public constr uction increased at a faster rate as 
infrastructure construction picked up. 
Manufacturing .  Growth in manufacturing production sl owed from the previous reporting 
period. Orders softened over the course of June and into early July as inventory replenishment 
decreased.  However, contacts remained cautiously optimis tic, stressing the seasonal nature of the 
slowdown. Steel production decreased, and capacity u tilization edged lower. A contact indicated 
that service centers were being cau tious with new orders despite the low level of inventories due to 
declining steel prices and a more uncertain outlook for economic activity. Manufacturers of 
industrial metals also noted a re traction in activity. Housing and c onstruction-related manufacturers 
continued to report weak busine ss conditions. Nonetheless, a contact in the household appliance 
industry indicated that the need  to rebuild inventories was lik ely to boost production in coming 
months. In addition, automakers reported that sales through the fi rst half of July were above 
expectations, and automotive supp liers continued to note strengt h in demand for their products. 
Demand for heavy equipment also increased, both do mestically and abroad. Exporters, in general, 
cited positive business conditions, but several contacts expressed concern about a potential 
slowdown in China and European markets. 
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions were slightly im proved in June and early July. Credit 
spreads narrowed for a number of District firm s, and overall borrowing costs decreased. Business 
loan demand continued to gradually increase, driv en mostly by refinancing and acquisition activity. 
Several banking contacts noted that fierce compet ition for high quality borrowers was leading to 
greater flexibility in pricing and terms on business loans. Consumer lending conditions were largely 
unchanged. However, a contact noted that the gra dual reemergence of private mortgage insurance 
companies was beginning to improve the availabili ty of mortgage credit . In contrast, credit 
remained limited for commercial real estate. Ba nk loan quality continued to improve gradually, 
although a contact indicated that the pace of  improvement had slowed in recent weeks.  
Prices/costs .  Price and wage pressures, on balance, continued to be small in June and early 
July. Contacts noted increases in the price of energy, paper, plastics, and resins, while prices for 
industrial metals like steel, alum inum, nickel, and zinc declined. Similar to the previous reporting 
period, wage pressures increased only modestly. Pass-through of cost pressu res to downstream 
prices remained minimal, with pricing power  in most industries continuing to be weak. 
Agriculture . Crop conditions varied across the District, deteriorating modestly in June and 
early July. Excess precipitation in some areas reduced hay output, damaged corn and soybean 
 
 VII-3
plants, and forced replanting. Howe ver, contacts continued to expect  good corn and soybean yields 
this fall. In the recent period, smaller than expect ed stocks of corn and soybeans led to crop price 
increases amidst concerns about how much rationi ng will occur before the harvest. Hog and cattle 
prices remained above year ago levels, alt hough they declined during the reporting period. In 
addition, milk prices increased, ai ding the struggling dairy sector. Problems with disease and the 
need for extra fertilizer pushed up input costs,  but crop farmers should be able to cover their 
production costs for this year. The cost of refina ncing debt also put pressure on margins for many 
livestock operations.  
 
 
 VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
Economic conditions in the Eighth District ha ve continued to improve since our previous 
report.  Manufacturing activity increased, on balance,  as did activity in the services sector.  Auto 
sales increased over a year ago.  Residential real  estate market conditions continued to improve 
across the District’s largest me tropolitan areas, while commercia l and industrial real estate 
markets remained weak, especially  construction.  Overall lending activity at a sample of small 
and mid-sized banks in the District decr eased from early April to late June. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity has contin ued to increase since our previous report.  Several 
manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a 
smaller number of contacts reporte d plans to close plants and re duce operations.  Firms in the 
furniture, plastics product, metal pipe, and plastics resin manufacturing industries announced 
plans to expand operations and hire new empl oyees.  Additionally, a major firm in the 
automobile manufacturing industry announced the opening of a new production facility.  In 
contrast, firms in the motor and generato r, furniture, and polystyrene foam product 
manufacturing industries announced that they w ill close plants in the District and lay off 
workers. 
Activity in the District's services sector has also increased since our previous report.  A 
major software publishing firm has announced plans to open a new facility  in the District and 
hire new workers.  Additionally, a firm in nursing care services announced plans to relocate their 
headquarters to the District.  In contrast, contacts in education services, air transportation support 
services, and the casino industry announced plans to decrease operations and lay off workers.  
 VIII-2 
Sales of new and used automobiles in recent week s were reported as higher than a year ago and 
slightly above expectations. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales continued to improve throughout the Eighth District.  Compared with the 
same period in 2009, May 2010 y ear-to-date home sales were up  3 percent in Memphis, 12 
percent in St. Louis, 19 percent in Little Ro ck, and 30 percent in Louisville.  Residential 
construction also continued to improve throughout  the District.  May 2010 year-to-date single-
family housing permits were up in most District metro areas comp ared with the same period in 
2009.  Permits increased 27 percent in Louisville, 31 percent in Little Rock, 36 percent in 
St. Louis, and 52 percent in Memphis. 
Commercial and industrial real  estate market activity rema ined slow throughout most of 
the District.  Contacts noted that financing requirements for new construction remained stringent and lease rates remained low.  A contact in St. Louis reported that comm ercial leasing was up in 
some areas, but new commercial construction projects are not expected before mid-2011.  
Industrial real estate and constr uction contacts throughout the Distri ct continued to report a flat 
environment.  A contact in Louisv ille reported that demand for indus trial real estate  continued to 
be weak.  A contact in the Me mphis area reported that while  industrial leasing has improved 
somewhat, no new industrial construction is  likely before the end of the year. 
Banking and Finance 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks decreased 2.0 
percent from early April to la te June.  Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.6 percent of 
total loans, decreased 1.9 per cent.  Commercial and industria l loans, accounting for 16.0 percent 
of total loans, decreased 2.5 percent.  Loans to  individuals, accounting for 5.3 percent of total 
 VIII-3 
loans, decreased 6.5 percent.  All other loans,  roughly 5.1 percent of to tal loans, increased 4.1 
percent.  During this peri od, total deposits at these banks decreased 1.2 percent. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Generally, development of the District's major crops remained ahead of its 5-year average 
pace.  In mid-July, the overall condition of rice a nd cotton was rated as slightly better than last 
year, while the condition of corn, sorghum, and soybeans was rated as  slightly worse.  Farmers in 
the District states planned to harvest more acres of corn for grain and rice in 2010 than in 2009 
but fewer acres of soybeans and sorghum for grai n.  The winter wheat harvest was complete or 
nearly complete in all District states.  Based on July estimates, total winter wheat production in 
the District states was expected to be down 48 per cent from last year.  Si nce our previous report, 
pasture conditions deteriorated  in most District states. 
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy grew slightly since the last report. Consumer spending, 
tourism, manufacturing, energy, mining and ag riculture saw increases. Residential 
construction and the services sectors e xperienced mixed activity, while commercial 
construction remained weak. Commercial and re sidential real estate activity decreased. 
Labor markets continued to strengthen somewhat.   Wages were generally level with a year 
ago, and price increases remained restrained.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending increased modestly. A major Minneapolis-based retailer reported that 
same-store sales in June were up almost 2 percent compared with a year earlier. A mall 
manager in North Dakota noted that recent sa les were up 4 percent over last year and 
were running a little ahead of 2008, when activ ity was relatively strong. In South Dakota, 
a mall manager noted that recent sales were  mixed; consumers remained cautious as 
traffic continued to be driven by promotions. A Montana auto dealer noted that June sales 
were behind a year ago, but July sa les have picked up substantially.  
Summer tourism was up sli ghtly from a year ago. Representatives of South 
Dakota tourism businesses and attractions noted that the early part of the summer season 
was going well. In western Montana, hotel book ings were about the same as a year ago, 
while Glacier National Park is expected to have  a record year due to  its 100th anniversary 
celebration. Tourism activity in the Upper Peni nsula of Michigan was about the same as 
last year. Meanwhile, a Minnesota travel agen cy noted that corporate sales were up about 
20 percent during June and early July compared with 2009. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction remained weak. A co mmercial contractor in  Montana said that 
the number of projects up for bidding decrea sed; existing projects were smaller and had 
more bidders. In contrast, a heavy infrastruc ture contractor in Minnesota and Wisconsin 
saw improvement in its market segment. In  addition, the value of June commercial 
permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., nearly doubled  from the previous June. Residential 
construction was mixed. June residential perm its increased slightly in value for the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul area and for Fargo, N.D., compared with the same month a year 
earlier. However, residential permits decrease d substantially in value in Sioux Falls and 
Rochester, Minn. 
IX-2 
 Weakness remained in the commercial  real estate sector. Office vacancy 
increased in Minneapolis-St. Paul. A commerc ial real estate broke r in western Montana 
characterized the market as level with last year’s slow activity. Re sidential real estate 
activity softened slightly. The number of clos ed sales in Minneapolis-St. Paul decreased 
in June from a year earlier. A real estate agent in Fargo said activity was steady, but not 
as active as usual for this time of year. M eanwhile, a Realtor in northeastern Minnesota 
recently noticed an increase in inquiries for properties. 
Services 
Activity in the professional business services sector was mixed since the last report. An 
engineering firm that supports the mining and energy sector noted an increase in activity. 
A human resources consulting firm noted a s light uptick in new bus iness. Architectural 
firms reported slow demand. Information tec hnology consultants repo rted that business 
was flat with a lot of maintenance projects ra ther than new software development. A firm 
that assists nonprofits note d a slight decrease in activity. A Minnesota energy 
management consultant noted an increase in orders. 
Manufacturing Manufacturing output was up since the last repo rt. A June survey of purchasing managers 
by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) show ed that manufacturing activity increased 
significantly in Minnesota and the Dakotas. A construction equipment manufacturer in 
North Dakota was increasing production. A South Dakota wind energy equipment 
producer increased production signifi cantly due to increased demand. 
Energy and Mining Activity in the energy and mining sectors incr eased since the last report. Mid-July oil 
exploration increased from ear ly June. Wind energy projects have come online, and more 
are planned in the western portion of the Di strict. In Montana, a company applied for 
permits to develop an underground gold mine. A Montana copper mine was “doing 
excellent,” according to an o fficial, due to strong production a nd prices. However, iron ore 
production in Minnesota decreased in June comp ared with May because of maintenance at 
one of the mines. 
Agriculture 
Agricultural activity increased. The U.S. De partment of Agriculture raised the price 
estimates for corn, soybeans and wheat. The vast majority of the District corn and soybean 
IX-3 
crops were rated as either good or excellent. Meanwhile, drought conditions eased across 
most of the District, but some areas  were experiencing excess moisture. 
Employment, Wages and Prices  
Labor markets continued to strengthen somewh at. According to respondents to a recent 
St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Business Outlook Surve y, 28 percent expect to increase staffing 
levels at their companies over the next six months, while 9 percent expect to decrease 
staff. In last year’s survey, 19 percent expected to boost hiring, while 12 percent 
anticipated decreases. A recent survey of businesses conducted by the North Dakota 
Chamber of Commerce showed that 39 percent e xpect to increase staffing in the next six 
months; the majority of respondents e xpect to keep payrolls level.  
Increases in temporary employment were noted. A representative of an 
employment services firm in Minneapolis-S t. Paul reported that demand for temporary 
workers has continued to grow  during the past two months. In the Dakotas, demand for 
seasonal construction employment was up;  however, temporary construction and 
manufacturing employment was slow in the Duluth, Minn., area, according to bank 
directors. In northwestern M ontana, two employment offices reported that postings for 
temporary and part-time listings were up; how ever, overall job orders by employers were 
down 50 percent compared with a year ago. Sign s of continued weakness also include an 
announcement that a bank will lay off about 80 employees in Minnesota.  
Wages were generally level with a year ea rlier. Over 70 percent of respondents to 
the St. Cloud survey expected no changes in  employee compensation over the next six 
months. A nurses union and 14 hospitals in th e Minneapolis-St. Paul area agreed on a 
contract that averted an open-ended strike; pension and health  benefits were not changed. 
Price increases remained restrained. Minne sota gasoline prices at the beginning of 
July were about the same as prices a month earlier. Bank directors noted that prices have 
remained generally level for area businesses with some exceptions. Significant increases 
included copper and brass produc ts in electrical wiring, steel fencing materials and 
unemployment taxes. Scrap metal prices were  above year-ago levels, but dropped during 
the past month.  
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
 The Tenth District economy generally held st eady in June and early July, despite weak 
real estate conditions. Consumer spending rema ined higher than year-ago levels and was 
expected to rise over the next  three months. Manufacturing activ ity expanded slightly, but at a 
slower pace than in previous months. Trans portation and high-tech firms reported increased 
activity. As expected, residential real estate activity contract ed sharply in response to the 
expiration of tax credits. Commer cial real estate conditions weak ened, and activity was expected 
to slow in the months ahead. Bankers reporte d slightly increased loan demand and did not 
anticipate a change in loan qua lity over the next six mont hs.  Energy production expanded, 
raising expectations of incr eased employment and capital sp ending over the coming months. 
Agriculture conditions remained positive, and farmland values stayed above year-ago levels. 
Wage and retail price pressures remained subdued. 
Consumer Spending. Consumer spending remained higher  than a year ago, and contacts 
anticipated gains over th e next three months.  District retailers reported th at sales in June and July 
were flat relative to the previous survey peri od but remained above year-ago levels. Retailers 
expected sales to rise over the next three months and a continued downward trend in prices. Auto sales increased in response to higher discounts, and d ealers expected strong demand to persist in 
the coming months. Auto dealers reported continue d declines in inventories. Restaurant sales 
were flat compared to the previous survey, but  the average check amount  fell. Tourism activity 
rose over the past month and was expected to remain strong during the summer months. Hotel 
occupancy rates increased more than anticipated, but  contacts expected to give up some of these 
gains in the coming months.   
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Growth in  manufacturing activity eased 
slightly in June, while transportation and high- tech firms reported solid growth in sales and 
activity. Production at manufacturing firms continue d to rise, but the pace of growth slowed for 
the second consecutive month. The volume of ne w orders, shipments, and finished goods 
inventories were flat compared  to May, but the backlog of orders at manufacturing firms 
 
 X-2  
declined. Manufacturing activity continued to improve compared  to a year ago, and firms 
remained optimistic about production and empl oyment over the next six months. Capital 
spending continued to decrease compared to ye ar-ago levels, and firms expected slightly less 
investment over the next six months. Transportation firms saw an increase in activity when 
compared to both the previous period and a year  ago. Some firms continued to have difficulty 
finding qualified drivers. Most tr ansportation firms planned to incr ease their capital spending the 
next six to twelve months. The high-tech industry reported an increase in activity over the 
previous survey period and expected str ong growth during the next three months. 
Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real estate activity declined 
since the last survey period. With the expiration of  tax credits, residential sales dropped sharply 
resulting in higher inventories of unsold homes. Residential real  estate contacts continued to 
report that lower-priced homes sold better than hi gher-priced homes. Over the next three months, 
real estate agents anticipated slower sales. However, builder s reported higher traffic from 
potential buyers and expected starts to rise slightly the next thr ee months. Despite flat 
construction supply sales since the previous surv ey, construction supply co ntacts also expected 
sales to increase during the coming months. Refinancing activity increased amid declining 
interest rates. Commercial real estate contacts reported that conditions weakened after improving 
slightly in the previous survey, including highe r vacancy rates and declin ing sales, construction, 
prices and rents. Commercial real estate conditions  were expected to worsen over the next three 
months. Developers reported in creasing difficulty accessing credit. 
Banking. Bankers reported slightly increased loan demand, stable deposits, and an 
unchanged outlook for loan quality. Overall, loan demand edged up after holding steady in the 
previous survey. Demand for consumer installment loans increased. However, demand fell for commercial real estate loans and was little cha nged for commercial and industrial loans and 
residential real estate loans. Credit standard s on residential real esta te loans and consumer 
installment loans were unchanged, but a few banks  tightened standards on  their commercial and 
industrial loans and commercial re al estate loans. About the same  number of bankers reported an 
improvement in loan quality, compar ed to one year ago, as reported a deterioration. Also, for the 
 
 X-3  
second straight survey, respondents expected no change in loan quality over  the next six months. 
Deposits were unchanged, consistent with their overall stability sinc e late last year.  
Energy. Energy production continued to expand, a nd firms expected activity to grow 
further in the coming months. Growth in the number of active dri lling rigs slowed relative to 
strong gains earlier in the year. Crude oil prices were expected  to remain unchanged due to a 
steadying of supply and demand conditions.  Firms reported that they planned to increase the 
workforce the next three months, but some c ontacts noted difficulty finding qualified workers. 
However, they did not anticipate having to raise wages in order to attract workers.  Capital 
spending was expected to increase over the ne xt six to twelve months, and several firms 
mentioned the potential of developing the Niobrara oil shale in northeastern Colorado and 
eastern Wyoming.  Agriculture. Agricultural conditions remained positive since the last survey period. 
Ample moisture reduced the need for irrigation, a nd the corn and soybean crops were reported in 
generally good or better conditi on. Wet weather, however, delayed the winter wheat harvest.  
While many areas expected an abundant wheat crop, there were some reports of hail damage and poor quality yields, especially in Oklahoma. Corn and soybean prices held steady while wheat 
prices rallied slightly, mainly due to expectations of a smalle r global wheat harvest. Livestock 
operations continued to be prof itable with recovering demand for beef and pork. Farmland values 
remained above year-ago levels. Farm loan de mand held steady, and ample funds were available 
at low interest rates for qualified borrowers.   Wages and Prices. Wage and retail price pressures remained low in June and July. 
District firms reported a slight uptick in the shortage of qualif ied labor, but wage pressures 
stayed at low levels. Retail prices continued to decline compared to both the last survey period and a year ago. Builders and construc tion supply firms expected prices  to remain at current levels 
over the next three months. Raw material prices at District manufacturers grew during the survey 
period, but the pace of growth slowed considerably. Meanwhile, transportation companies continued to experience higher input prices. Overall, District contac ts planned to keep prices at 
their current level the next three months.     
XI-1 
 
  
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS   
 
Overview   The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over the past six weeks, 
although business outlooks were slightly more cautious. Respondents in most sectors said activity improved or held steady since the last report. The notable exception came from homebuilders and 
construction-related manufactures who said demand dropped off following th e expiration of the first-time 
homebuyer tax credit. The majority of Eleventh District respondents expect economic conditions to 
remain positive, but many expressed uncertainty about the pace of future growth. Numerous contacts said 
uncertainty regarding fiscal and financial reforms was restraining business activity.  
Prices   Selling prices held steady for most responding firms. There were scattered reports that 
rising input costs were squeezing margins. Notably, paper producers said linerboard prices continued to 
rise, and high-tech firms said supply-chain prob lems had increased costs for producers. Some 
transportation service firms had raised fees but reduced  fuel surcharges. Lumber producers said prices had 
come down since the spring run-up, and staffing firms continued to note pressure to reduce fees. Contacts 
in residential construction said industry consolid ation has led to fewer concessions in pricing.  
Crude oil prices traded in a range of about $70 to  $75 per barrel from late May through early July, 
down from the previous report. On-highway prices of both gasoline and diesel fell about 5 percent during the reporting period. Natural gas prices mostly ranged between $4.50 and $5.00 per Mcf—moving up 
briefly over $5.00 per Mcf in June. The increase in pe trochemical prices seen earlier in the year due to 
capacity outages has reversed course.  
Labor Market   The majority of respondents noted steady employment levels, although there 
were scattered reports of hiring activity. Staffi ng firms said demand continued to increase for their 
services, and some contacts in residential construc tion, construction-related manufacturing, aircraft 
manufacturing and auto sales had added workers. On a less positive note,
 contacts in the energy industry 
said the moratorium on deepwater drilling resulted in significant regional layoffs, although energy service companies were shifting Gulf Coast workers to  land or shallow water projects when possible
. Wage 
pressures were mostly nonexistent, with the excepti on of the airline industry. Although the overall labor 
market remains slack one transportation service provi der was offering signing bonuses to truck operators, 
and a few firms noted difficulty finding skilled workers.  
 Manufacturing   Most construction-related manufacturers reported a slowdown in activity, and 
outlooks were less optimistic than in the previous re port. Producers that sell to the homebuilding industry 
said orders dropped off more than expected following the expiration of the first-time homebuyer tax 
credit. Contacts also reported declines in private nonr esidential construction. Fabricated metals producers 
XI-2 
 
 said sales growth flattened since the last report, while primary metals firms said activity picked up 
slightly, but was bouncing along the bottom.         
Production and new orders for high-tech manufacturi ng continue to grow at a strong pace. Capital 
expenditures that were postponed during the recession are driving purchasing, according to respondents. 
Inventories were in good shape, having built up from ex tremely low levels early in the year. Respondents 
expect demand to continue to grow at a strong pace fo r the next three to six months, but there is increased 
uncertainty about the outlook for 2011.  
Manufacturers of aircraft and parts said sales had improved, with orders coming mostly from the 
commercial and general aviation industries. Budget cutbacks have curbed governmental and military 
sales. An aircraft repair contact said growth in dema nd had softened slightly, and the backlog of orders 
had dropped. Orders for emergency vehicles remained flat and backlogs edged down, but not as much as contacts had expected given budget strains among municipalities.    
Reports on demand for paper products  were mixed, but most contacts said sales are about even 
with or slightly higher than a year ago. F ood producers noted increased demand, and outlooks were 
positive.  
Producers of petrochemicals used in housing and commercial construction (PVC) said orders fell 
since the last report, and expectations are for no n ear-term improvement. Other than PVC, there were no 
signs of weakness in chemicals. Demand was strong for petrochemicals used in manufacturing, pulp and 
paper and alumina. In addition, contacts said dom estic demand for ethylene/polyethylene products 
remained solid, and that export demand has returned slowly as capacity was restored and prices declined. 
Refiners said gasoline demand was steady in recent weeks while diesel demand has improved. Refinery 
utilization rates improved to near 90 percent, as refiner margins remain  relatively strong.  
 Retail   Reports from retail contacts point to solid gr owth. Department store sales were slightly 
stronger than anticipated, but the pace is expected to moderate in the second half.  Consumers continue to 
deleverage and correspondingly remain price sensitive.  Sales growth in the Eleventh District tracked 
slightly below the nation. Expectations are for c ontinued gradual improvement through year-end.    
Automobile sales were unchanged over the reporti ng period, and contacts said inventories were 
lean. The outlook is cautiously optimistic, with sales expected to rise slowly.   Services   Most staffing firms report strong demand across a wide range of industries. The 
majority of placement activity continues to be c onversions of temporary workers to hires. Direct 
placement remains reduced as businesses are hesitant to add to permanent payrolls. While near-term 
outlooks remain optimistic, respondents are still cau tious about the longer term. Demand for accounting 
services was sluggish, but above year-ago levels . Tax-related services slowed seasonally, but 
transactional and consulting activity picked up slightly. Demand for legal services held steady at low 
XI-3 
 
 levels, but most contacts were slightly more optim istic in their outlooks. Accounting and legal contacts 
said uncertainty about fiscal and financial reform was holding back business activity.  
Demand for transportation services strengthened. Several contacts said cargo volumes were up 
considerably, with the increases being broad-based  across industry sectors. Railroad respondents noted 
cargo volumes rose strongly across the board, with a par ticularly large increase in metals that was likely 
due to an improved auto industry and stronger demand  for home appliances. Shipping firms said retail 
trade was boosting volumes for small package shipping. Airline traffic was down slightly since the last 
report, but up strongly compared to a year ago. Outlooks for the transportation services industry were 
generally positive but cautious.   
Construction and Real Estate Builders of low-to-moderate priced homes reported a significant 
drop off in housing sales in May and June following the expiration of the first time-homebuyer tax credit. 
The pace of decline slowed in early July, and some contacts are hopeful the tax-credit “hangover” may be 
over. New home starts overall are expected to come do wn in the second half of the year, and outlooks for 
the homebuilding industry remain guarded. Existing home sales softened slightly in recent weeks, 
according to contacts, but activity for the year is up from the same period in 2009. Apartment demand 
continues to improve. 
 Commercial real estate markets remain weak. While a few lease deals have taken place, demand 
for space overall remains subdued and rents are edgi ng down. As such, nonr esidential construction 
activity continues to decline, and there were a few reports of developers going out of business. On a 
positive note, contacts said improvement in debt ma rkets had spurred some property sales, and prices 
were up from the trough. One contact noted an increase in lender sales as banks work through 
nonperforming loans. 
Financial Services    Loan demand remained soft w ith weakness across all categories. 
Nonperforming loans have stabilized and are not exp ected to worsen, although contacts said it will be a 
while before they come down noticeably. Deposits were  mostly steady, but responding institutions said 
fewer loans pushed down the loan-to-deposit ratio. An over-riding theme among financial industry 
respondents is uncertainty over fiscal and financial reform legislation that has created a wait-and-see 
mentality. The uncertainty is delaying transactions, depressing loan activity and causing some institutions 
to look for alternative ways to grow loan portfolios and earnings.  
Energy The U.S. and District rig counts increased during the reporting period, despite a drop of 
39 rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. As the share of oil-di rected drilling continues to rise, natural-gas directed 
drilling was surprisingly steady despite  high inventories and low prices. Some contacts noted that shale 
activity is stronger than prices justify due to urgenc y to secure leases in new basins and an influx of 
foreign capital attracted by new shale technology.  
XI-4 
 
 Agriculture Tropical storms brought widespread rains to Texas, particularly benefitting parts of 
the state that had been getting dry. Favorable crop conditions and robust fo rage production on pastures 
have increased optimism among agricultural producers. Ca ttle prices have declin ed, though ranchers still 
anticipate strong prices compared to last year. Th e recent rainfall will boost yields for Texas cotton, 
potentially pushing down prices. 
 
 
 
  
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District appear ed to pick up slightly during the reporting period 
of June through mid-July.  Upward price pressures remained quite modest, and upward wage pressures 
were largely absent.  Sales of retail items and services firmed a bit further.  Reports from District 
manufacturers indicated continued expansion, althou gh excess capacity remained high in some sectors.  
Sales were strong for agricultural producers, and de mand for energy resources strengthened.  Activity in 
housing markets was mixed but appeared to decline on net, while demand for commercial real estate was 
largely unchanged at very low levels.  Contacts from financial institutions reported largely stable lending activity and credit quality.  Wages and Prices 
 Upward price pressures remained very modest on net during the reporting period.  While energy 
prices edged up and prices also rose modestly for selected industrial commodities such as steel and 
copper, final prices for most retail items and servi ces continued to be held down by weak demand and 
excess capacity.  Contacts in a few industries pointed  to recent increases in shipping costs that they 
anticipate will be passed on to final prices later this year or in 2011. 
 Contacts in most sectors characterized wages as larg ely flat, although some pointed to significant 
increases in the costs of employee benefits, especially for health insurance.  Up ward wage pressures were 
negligible in most sectors and regions, held down by  continued high levels of  unemployment and limited 
hiring.  Reports throughout the District indicated that  most businesses expect to remain cautious in hiring 
for the foreseeable future.  Contacts noted that their reliance on temporary workers over permanent hires will continue above historical norms.  
Retail Trade and Services 
  Sales of retail items were mixed but showed  further modest improvement on net.  While 
consumers remained focused on necessities and lo wer-priced options, reports indicated expanding 
consumer appetite for discretionary spending.  Discount retail chains and traditional department stores 
XII - 2 
both reported higher levels of sales, and a few cont acts noted declines in promotional activity.  By 
contrast, sales were characterized as largely flat fo r grocers, as well as furniture and household appliance 
retailers.  Sales of new domestic a nd imported automobiles weakened slightly during the reporting period, 
although contacts noted that activity rebounded somewhat in recent weeks.  Demand for gasoline 
strengthened but remained below historical averages for the season. 
 Demand for services remained somewhat weak but  exhibited further si gns of improvement on 
balance.  Contacts in the restaurant and food servi ces industry reported modest increases in demand.  For 
professional and media services providers, sales were largely stable at low levels.  Contacts noted that 
potential clients increased their requests for bids, but the added interest produced only limited numbers of 
new commitments.  Demand for hospital services was relatively flat, especially for discretionary services.  
Energy utilities reported further increases in demand fro m selected industries, such as technology, metal, 
and wood products.  Conditions in the District’s trav el and tourism sector continued to improve.  Business 
travel and convention activity picked up further, an d visitor volumes and hotel occupancy rates rose in 
several of the District’s major markets, particularly Hawaii.  
Manufacturing 
  District manufacturing activity was mixed but appeared to strengthen a bit further on net during 
the reporting period of June through mid-July.  Manu facturers of semiconductors and other information 
technology products reported further demand growth, with balanced inve ntories and continued strength in 
new orders.  Production rates and deliveries picked up modestly for makers of commercial aircraft and 
parts.  However, new orders rema ined limited and contacts expressed uncertainty about the strength of the 
airline industry recovery and prospects for future or ders.  While capacity utilization remained at low 
levels for companies in the metal fabrication sector , further demand improvements were noted, especially 
for items used to maintain or upgrade existing cap ital equipment.  By contrast, apparel makers 
characterized conditions as “flat.”  Despite improve d demand, high inventory levels for gasoline and 
distillates prompted refineries to slow production.  
 
XII - 3 
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand was strong for agricultural products and improved for natural resources used for energy 
production.  Orders and final sales remained robust for assorted crop and livestock products.  Growing 
and grazing conditions have been favorable in recent months, and contacts noted that input costs have 
been largely stable.  Strong global demand suppor ted an increase in oil extraction activity during the 
reporting period, and extracti on activity for natural gas continued at a solid pace. 
Real Estate and Construction 
 
 Demand for housing in the District appeared to  deteriorate somewhat from the previous period, 
while demand for commercial real estate was largel y unchanged at very low levels.  The pace of home 
sales remained mixed across areas but appeared to de cline on net, even as home prices edged up further in 
some parts of the District.  Several contacts noted again that limited availability of nonconforming 
“jumbo” loans is holding down sales of higher-priced  homes in some areas.  Conditions in commercial 
real estate markets remained depressed, as vacancy rat es for office and industrial space stayed at very 
elevated levels in many parts of the District.  One California contact noted that although only a few large 
commercial properties have sold in recent mont hs, the prices received were surprisingly high. 
Financial Institutions 
 District banking contacts reported that loan dema nd was largely stable compared with the prior 
reporting period.  Demand for commercial and industria l loans continued to be restrained by business 
uncertainty about the economic environment.  For most contacts, their current assessment of growth 
prospects for their firm and industry are the same or weaker than was their assess ment in early 2010, with 
corresponding restraint evident in their planned cap ital expenditures.  Demand for consumer loans was 
characterized as largely unchanged at low levels.  Le nding standards remained relatively restrictive for 
business and consumer lending, although  reports pointed to signs of stab ilization in overall credit quality.   