              F o r  use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
              W e d n e s d a y                April 17, 2013 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ 
 
 
 
Current 
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
    
 
        
 
      
April 2013 
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON C URRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS  
 
  
APRIL 2013 
                        
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
SUMMARY ....................................................................................................................... .............. i 
First District – Boston ....................................................................................................... ............ I-1 
Second District – New York  ................................................................................................... ....II-1 
Third District – Philadelphia ................................................................................................. ..... III-1 
Fourth District – Cleveland ................................................................................................... .... IV -1 
Fifth District – Richmond ..................................................................................................... ...... V-1 
Sixth District – Atlanta ...................................................................................................... ........ VI-1 
Seventh District – Chicago .................................................................................................... ... VII-1 
Eighth District – St. Louis ................................................................................................... ... VIII-1 
Ninth District – Minneapolis .................................................................................................. ... IX-1 
Tenth District – Kansas City .................................................................................................. ..... X-1 
Eleventh District – Dallas .................................................................................................... ...... XI-1 
Twelfth District – San Francisco ..............................................................................................  XII-1 
i 
 
Summary* 
 
 Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest overall economic activity 
expanded at a moderate pace during the reporting period from late February to early April. 
Activity in the Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis,  Minneapolis, and Kansas  City Districts was 
characterized as growing at a moderate pace, wh ile the Boston, Philadelp hia, Atlanta, Chicago, 
and San Francisco Districts noted modest growth . The New York and Dallas Districts indicated 
that the pace of expansion accelerated slightly since the previous Beige Book. 
Most Districts noted increases in manufact uring activity since th e previous report. 
Particular strength was seen in industries tied to residential construction and automobiles, while 
several Districts reported uncertain ty or weakness in defense-rela ted sectors. Consumer spending 
grew modestly, and firms in some Districts cited higher gasoline prices, e xpiration of the payroll 
tax cut, and winter weather as factors restraining sales growth. Retailers in several Districts 
expect continued sales growth in the near te rm. Overall vehicle sale s remained strong or 
increased, but sales of used automobiles declined in some Districts. Travel and tourism expanded 
across most reporting Districts, boosted by both business and leisure travel.  
Demand for nonfinancial services increased at a modest pace, and several Districts noted 
growth in freight and transporta tion services. Most Districts said  residential and commercial real 
estate improved markedly since the last report. Home prices were rising in many areas of the 
country. Loan demand was steady to slightly up in most Districts. Reports on agricultural 
conditions were mixed, as drought or cold weather adversely impacted some Districts while 
others reported a strong agricultu ral sector. Oil and natural gas activity remained robust over the 
reporting period, with contacts in the Cleveland, Kansas City, a nd Dallas Districts expecting a 
rise in activity in coming months, while coal production continued to decline.  
Employment conditions remained unchanged or improved somewhat, and reports of 
hiring were most prevalent in the manufactur ing, residential construction, information 
technology, and professional services sectors. Wage pressures were generally contained, 
although several Districts cited upw ard pressures in occupations experiencing labor shortages, 
such as information technology, construction, and e ngineering. Aside from reports of increases 
                                                 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas base d on information collected on or before April 5, 
2013. This document summarizes comments receive d from businesses and other contacts outside the 
Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.  
ii 
 
in home prices and residential construction mate rials, price pressures remained mostly subdued 
across Districts.  
Outlooks among respondents remained optimistic  across sectors and Districts, with 
growth mostly expected to continue at the same  or a slightly improved pace. Some uncertainty 
remained, primarily regarding fiscal  policy and health care reform.  
 
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing activity held steady or increased in most Distri cts since the previous Beige 
Book. The pace of growth picked up in the Clev eland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Districts, while the Richmond and Chica go Districts noted that the pace of growth in 
production was slower than earlier this year. Co ntacts in the Boston Di strict reported mixed 
conditions, and manufacturing activ ity held steady in the New York District. Manufacturing 
conditions in the Kansas City District conti nued to soften, driven by weaker durable goods 
production, although factory manage rs project a rebound in coming months. Firms in the New 
York, Philadelphia, and Dallas Di stricts were broadly optimistic about prospects for 2013, while 
cautious optimism was expressed by manufactur ers in the Cleveland District, and mixed 
outlooks were expressed in the Boston District. Contacts in the Atlanta District do not expect 
future production to be as high as previously projected. 
Strength in residential constr uction spurred manufacturing incr eases in several Districts. 
There were widespread reports  of growth in demand for w ood products; a contact in the 
Philadelphia District noted the best growth pr ospects in five years, a sawmill in Montana 
restarted production after idling for more than four  years, and a Dallas District lumber firm noted 
a seasonal demand increase for the first time in several years. The auto industry remained a 
source of strength for several Dist ricts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, 
and Minneapolis. Gains were reported by food manufacturers in the Ph iladelphia and Dallas 
Districts, and food contacts in the St. Louis and Dallas District s plan to expand operations or 
make significant capital e xpenditures. In the Cleveland Dist rict, suppliers to the shale gas 
industry cited strong activity, and increased activity in natural-gas related industries was seen in 
the Chicago District. Electronic  equipment and instruments manu facturers in the Philadelphia 
District and high tech firms in the Kansas C ity District noted gain s over the reporting period, 
iii 
 
while reports on high tech orders in the Dallas District were mixed across customer groups, and 
semiconductor firms in the Boston Distri ct said sales continued to languish. 
Numerous Districts reported uncertainty or weakness in military or defense-related 
sectors. San Francisco District defense-relate d manufactures noted furloughs, layoffs, and plant 
closures at some production facilities, and military  customers in the Chicago District were taking 
measures to lower costs in an ticipation of tighter future de fense budgets. Lower activity was 
indicated by makers of primary me tals in the Philadelphia District, and Chicago District specialty 
metal manufacturers noted declines in new orders . Demand for steel was relatively flat in the 
Cleveland and Chicago Districts, while firms in the San Francisco District saw an increase in 
demand for steel products used primarily in tr ansportation infrastruc ture and nonresidential 
construction projects. Reports from fabricated metals producers were mixed across Districts, 
with increases noted in the Philadelphia and Da llas Districts while weak er production was noted 
in the Kansas City District. 
 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Most Districts reported increases in retail spending. Firms in the New York, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisc o Districts noted sales 
increased at a modest to moderate pace. Most retailers in the Boston Di strict said demand was 
slower than expected. Sales ac tivity was mixed according to the Atlanta District’s report, and 
retail spending declined in the Richmond and Chicago District s. Demand for apparel rose in the 
Boston, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Franci sco Districts, and sales of furniture and 
appliances in the Chicago District were buoyed by improvements in the housing market. Sales of 
electronics rose in the Cleveland District, and the San Francisco District  report indicated strong 
demand for mobile computing devices. Contacts in  some Districts cited higher gasoline prices, 
expiration of the payroll tax cut,  and winter weather as factors restraining sales growth. Looking 
ahead, retailers in several Districts expect modest sales growth in the near term. In particular, the 
St. Louis District reported new st ore openings, and some retailers in  the Dallas District said they 
have added employees in line with expanding operations.  
Overall, automobile sales remained strong or increased moderately since the last report. 
The exception was a slight decline in sales of used vehicles in the New York and Cleveland 
Districts. A number of contacts in the St. Louis Distri ct reported plans to open new dealership 
iv 
 
locations, and dealers in the Chicago District were building inventories for the spring selling 
season. Used vehicle prices remained high. Outlooks  were mostly positive, and contacts in the 
Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Ka nsas City, and Dallas Districts expect sales to increase in 
coming months. However, some auto dealers in the Cleveland District expressed concern about 
the potential negative impact of fi scal policy on consumer spending. 
Reports from most Distri cts pointed to continued strength in travel and tourism, bolstered 
by both the business and leisure segments. Busi ness travel remained robust in the Boston, 
Atlanta, and Minneapolis Distri cts, and foreign visitors cont inued to boost convention travel 
according to the Atlanta District. The Minneapolis District noted that winter tourism activity was 
stronger than last year, and sp ring-break related travel bols tered tourism in the Richmond 
District. Restaurants in the Minneapolis and Ka nsas City Districts not ed increased sales. 
Bookings were strong at some resorts in the Ph iladelphia and Richmond Di stricts, and hotels in 
Manhattan, Hawaii, and the Kansas  City District noted solid ga ins in occupancy rates. In 
contrast, business at restaurants and museums in the Boston District softened in part due to 
unfavorable weather conditions. Attendance and revenues were slightly lower at Broadway 
theaters, casino revenues fell in  the Philadelphia District, and tourism activity weakened in 
Southern California duri ng the reporting period. 
 
Nonfinancial Services 
Demand for nonfinancial services expanded at a modest pace since the previous report. 
The Kansas City and San Francisco Districts noted solid growth in information technology 
services, and contacts expect demand to remain  robust through year-end. The Boston District 
reported strong demand for healthca re consulting services partly due to changes resulting from 
the Affordable Care Act, while healthcare firms in  the San Francisco District indicated plans to 
freeze hiring and scale back capital expenditures in response to federal spending cuts. Defense-
related and other firms dependent on the federa l government in the Philadelphia District said 
they expect a decline in activity for the remainder of the year.  
Activity expanded for professional and busine ss services, such as accounting, advertising, 
marketing, consulting, and legal services. Cons ulting services remained  strong in the Boston 
District, and firms in the Dallas District noted strength in accounting se rvices. Advertising and 
marketing firms in the Boston District said an uptick in growth for thei r services was buoyed by 
v 
 
stronger financial positions of c lients. The St. Louis District no ted plans for hiring and expansion 
in social and legal services, while the Dallas District report indicated weaker-than-expected 
growth in demand for legal services.  
Transportation service activity in creased since the previous re port. Air travel improved in 
the Dallas District, in part due to spring-br eak related activity. Inte rmodal cargo volumes moved 
higher in the Atlanta and Dallas Di stricts, and activity at logist ics and transport firms in the 
Philadelphia District grew at a moderate rate. Trucking traffic picked up in the Kansas City 
District, and trucking cargo volumes  were above year ago levels according to Atlanta’s report. 
Railroad contacts in the Dallas District said sh ipments grew, particular ly for petroleum and 
construction-related products, a nd freight transportation volumes were higher than expected in 
the Cleveland District. Accordi ng to Richmond’s report, containe r traffic increased at larger 
ports in the District beca use of continued strength in shipment s of auto parts. Air freight volumes 
rose in the Atlanta District, a nd small parcel shipments grew st rongly in the Dallas District. 
However, railroad shipments were flat to slightly  down in the Atlanta Dist rict, and a contact in 
the Richmond District said that European-bound ve ssels were leaving the por t lighter than in the 
past, particularly due to a decline in cons truction and agricultural  equipment exports.  
 
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate activity continued to im prove in most Districts,  and some Districts, 
including Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Minneapo lis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco, 
noted increased momentum since the last report.  The New York District , in particular, noted 
especially strong improvement in residential re al estate—both in for-sale housing and apartment 
markets.  
Home sales continued to rise  in most Districts. Although homebuyer demand was high in 
the Boston District, low home inve ntories were restraining sales,  keeping growth modest. Home 
sales were reportedly strong in both the Atlant a and Dallas Districts. The Richmond District 
noted low inventories were pushing up contracts to well above listing prices, and the Boston and 
New York Districts said multiple bids on properties have become more common. Tight 
inventories and strong sales led to rising home prices in many Districts, including Atlanta, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Franci sco. Within the New York District, condo sales 
volumes strengthened and low inventories have begun to drive up selling prices in New York 
vi 
 
City and surrounding areas, while New Jersey home  prices were rising modestly and inventories 
were shrinking with a marked reduction in the nu mber of distressed propert ies. Contacts in the 
Boston District also noted a decline in the stock of distressed properties.  
New home construction conti nued to pick up in most Di stricts, although the Richmond 
District said that a low supply of  residential building materials ha d stalled construction. Only the 
Philadelphia District noted that  residential construc tion decelerated somewhat, although home 
sales were still growing moderately. Multifamily construction increased in several Districts 
including Boston, Chicago, and San Francisco. Th e New York District noted apartment rents 
accelerated in early 2013, due to stronger demand  coupled with historically low inventories. The 
Cleveland, Dallas, and San Fran cisco Districts said apartment demand remained strong.  
Commercial real estate and construction activity improved in most Districts. Office 
vacancy rates declined in the Boston District a nd contacts said the construction of mixed-use 
projects was picking up. The New York District reported that o ffice vacancy rates continued to 
decline and rents rose in Manha ttan. The Philadelphia District commented that there was not 
much change in nonresidential ac tivity during the reporting period, bu t that contracts for repair 
work from Hurricane Sandy have yet to be approve d. Contacts in the Rich mond District cited a 
tight supply of class A office space and said ther e were several large projects under construction 
in the Washington D.C. area. Commercial cons truction saw widespread improvement with the 
New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Di stricts noting increases. Both 
commercial real estate development and leasi ng activity increased across the San Francisco 
District, mostly fueled by growth in the tec hnology industry. Several Di stricts, including Boston, 
Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City said co mmercial property investment sales activity 
increased during the reporting period.  
Contacts in the Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts were somewhat optimistic in their 
outlooks for the commercial real estate and constr uction markets in general, but contacts in the 
Cleveland District were cautious about near-ter m construction activity. Dallas District contacts 
said office and warehouse markets were impr oving, and Atlanta District respondents noted 
growing optimism for the offi ce and industrial sectors.  
 
 
 
vii 
 
Banking and Finance 
Loan demand was steady to slightly up at  most District Banks that commented on 
lending. The Philadelphia District, however, said  loan volumes softened somewhat since the 
previous report. The New York Di strict noted widespread increases  in loan demand, particularly 
for commercial loans and residential mortgages,  and the Cleveland Dist rict said business and 
consumer loan demand picked up since the last  report. The Dallas Dist rict saw broad-based 
improvement in loan demand as  energy-related lending remained  strong and commercial real 
estate and home equity lending bounced up from low levels. The San Francisco District said 
increased growth in automobile and mortgage  loans spurred overall improvements in loan 
demand. Several Districts, including Philadelphi a, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Dallas, and San Francisco, said loan  pricing was very competitive. 
Reports on mortgage lending were mostly fa vorable. Stronger refi nancing activity was 
cited by the New York and Atlant a Districts. The Cleveland and Kansas City Districts noted a 
shift from mortgage refinancing to new purch ases, and the New York, Richmond, Dallas, and 
San Francisco Districts repor ted an uptick in residential mortgage loans.   
Most District banks said cr edit conditions remained favorable, with improved credit 
quality for business and consumer loans.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Agricultural conditions were mixed across Districts, larg ely due to varying weather 
patterns. Drought persisted in th e Kansas City District and wo rsened slightly in the Dallas 
District, straining the respective winter wheat cr ops and causing continued losses in the livestock 
sector. However, drought conditions  improved significantly in much of the Atlanta District, and 
the winter wheat crop in the St . Louis District was largely in  good condition. Cold weather 
delayed field preparation for spring planting in  the Richmond and Chicago Districts. The 
Minneapolis District’s agricultural sector remained strong, and producers in the San Francisco 
District noted increased producti on as well as higher demand. Farmers in the Chicago, St. Louis, 
and Minneapolis Districts plan to  increase soybean acreage this year but were mixed in their 
plans for corn and other grain acreage. Contacts in the Chicago District noted that corn and 
soybean prices dropped over the reporting period base d on expectations of a la rger crop this year 
and current stocks not bei ng as tight as anticipated. 
viii 
 
Oil and natural gas production generally held steady at moderate to high levels since the 
last report. Drilling activity wa s stable over the reporting period, but  contacts in the Kansas City 
and Dallas Districts expect a rise in coming mo nths. Output in some wet gas regions of the 
Cleveland District is expected to increase late r in the year as new ga s processing units come 
online. The energy sector was a bright spot in th e Atlanta District, as projects to increase the 
Gulf Coast’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) expor t capacity drove capital and labor demand. Across 
the country, coal production cont inued to decline, with lower output reported by the Cleveland, 
Richmond, St. Louis, and Ka nsas City Districts.  
 
Employment, Wages, and Prices 
Labor market conditions remained unchanged or  improved slightly, and reports of hiring 
were more widespread in the manufacturing, residential constructi on, information technology, 
and professional services sectors. Several Distri cts noted robust demand for workers tied to the 
residential construction sector, including Philadelphia, Clevela nd, Dallas, and San Francisco. In 
particular, a lumber and wood products firm in th e Philadelphia District said the firming housing 
market had resulted in the best growth pros pects in five years. Demand for information 
technology professionals and engineers was st rong in the New York, Richmond, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and San Francisco Di stricts. Staffing firms in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts 
noted an increase in orders from the manufactur ing sector, and several manufacturers in the St. 
Louis and Kansas City Districts said they pla nned on expanding their payrolls. Reports from the 
New York and Richmond Districts indicated strong demand for temporary workers. The 
Minneapolis District noted a tig htening labor market, and along with the Dallas District cited 
continued challenges in attracti ng and retaining workers in areas close to oil-drilling regions. The 
Chicago District cited a stronge r job market for new college gr aduates and more competition 
among employers to fill intern pos itions. Contacts in several Dist ricts faced difficulties finding 
highly trained or skilled worker s, especially in the informa tion technology and engineering 
fields. In contrast, hiring activity was limited in  the Boston and Cleveland Districts, demand for 
staffing services softened in the Dallas Distri ct, and some Districts, including Richmond and 
Atlanta, reported restrained hiring due to uncer tainty over fiscal policy or healthcare reform. 
Overall upward wage pressures continued to  be fairly modest. There were a few 
exceptions, however. Several Distri cts reported wage pressures in sectors experiencing labor 
ix 
 
shortages, such as information technology, cons truction, and engineering. The Kansas City 
District noted wage increases for commercial tr uck drivers, and the Ri chmond District reported 
widespread wage increases in the service sect or. Rising healthcare cost s were a concern among 
contacts in a few Districts, includi ng Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago. 
The majority of Districts said overall pr ice pressures remained minimal during the 
reporting period. Several Distri cts, including Boston, Philadel phia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and San Francisco, said prices for some construction materials rose since the last 
report, but there were few reports of pass-through.  
Kansas City District contacts said price increases for raw ma terials used in manufacturing 
led to higher selling prices in some instances  and retail prices edge d up. New York District 
respondents noted some increased se lling prices in the service s ector, and the Atlanta District 
reported that contacts in the tran sportation sector were able to cover cost increases with fuel 
surcharges. The Atlanta and Dallas Districts said that cotton prices  rose since the last report. 
Contacts in the Richmond Distri ct noted input and finished g oods prices rose at a slower 
pace since the last report, and Chicago Distri ct contacts said commod ity prices were down 
slightly.   
I-1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Economic activity in the First District continues to expand modestly according to business 
contacts, although conditions are somewhat mixed across individual firms. Retailers generally cite slower 
than expected sales, and tourism has softened, part ly on account of unseasonal weather. Over half of 
responding First District manufacturers report demand improvements in the first quarter; the rest are less 
upbeat. Most consulting and advertising firms say bu siness is strong. Reports from the commercial real 
estate sector are more positive in this round than previously, with leasing activity improving in some 
markets. In the residential sector, limited inventory is  said to be constraining home sales in the region, but 
median home prices are rising modestly. Contacts say hiring reflects demand growth, so few firms are 
adding substantially to headcounts except in the c onsulting sector. Price pressures are minimal. Most 
respondents expect current trends to continue, yielding  modest to moderate growth in the second quarter 
and the second half of the year. Retail and Tourism 
Retailers contacted for this round cite mixed resu lts for first quarter 2013. One reports that year-
over-year comp store sales were up 2.5 percent to 2.6 percent, while others report slower than expected 
sales. Some contacts attribute their slowdowns partly to the prolonged winter weather, noting that while 
this winter has been unseasonably cold in some  regions, winter 2012 was unusually mild. Demand 
remains strong for clothing, shoes, and home furnishings. Inventories are in good shape, and any price 
increases are moderate. Contacts continue to expect that 2013 sales increases will be in the modest single 
digits.  
The tourism business softened in February and Marc h compared with a year earlier; some of this 
slowdown is also attributed to weather-related fact ors, especially for restaurants and museums. January 
through March is seasonally the slowest period for le isure travel. Tourist activity from Europe dropped 
about 5 percent this quarter compared to a year a go. Corporate business travel and entertaining remain 
strong.  
Manufacturing and Related Services 
Conversations with a dozen manufacturing contacts pa int a mixed picture. More than half report 
that demand for their products improved in the first quar ter versus the previous quarter or a year earlier.  
The two firms reporting the strongest sales growth we re in the health care sector—a drug company and a 
medical device manufacturer—and both reported spectacu lar growth. At the other end of the spectrum, 
two firms in the semiconductor business report that sal es continue to languish. One, a maker of analog 
devices, acknowledged that the semiconductor business is cyclical, but said that the duration of the 
current slowdown is unlike anything he had encountered in his years in the industry.   
Hiring patterns largely mirror sales growth, with four firms reporting substantial hiring, three 
citing stability, and five firms reporting staff reducti ons. The two health care-related firms led the pack, 
I-2 
increasing staff at annualized rates of 15 percent to 18 percent. For the medical device manufacturer, the 
hiring was largely support personnel such as sales, marketing, and back office. 
Weakness in demand is not yet translating into lower capital expenditures, with only one firm 
reporting a reduction. Half the firms noted increases in spending and the rest reported no change. One of firms engaged in substantial capita l spending relative to sales is the analog semiconductor firm reporting 
continued weakness in sales; the firm’s managers in dicate they remain confident that the long-term 
growth patterns in the industry will justify their investment.   
Looking forward, only one-third of manufacturi ng respondents were negative about the outlook.  
Most of the rest were optimistic  or “cautiously optimistic.”   
Selected Business Services 
Consulting and advertising contacts in the First Dist rict report a generally strong first quarter and 
were positive about their firms’ recent performance and near-term outlook. Marketing and advertising 
contacts note an uptick in growth due to clients in stronger financial positions and with more money to 
spend. Several contacts report robust demand for hea lth care consulting services as the industry adapts to 
massive changes attributable in part to the Affo rdable Care Act. Economic consulting remains strong 
because of high levels of complex high-stakes litigati on; management and strate gy consulting contacts 
cite improved business conditions as clients have become  more optimistic and seem to believe that it is 
time to invest for future growth. The only contact to  report a bad quarter works mostly with the federal 
government and has been heavily affected by fiscal contraction. 
Contacts generally report cost increases around 2 per cent and most firms either raised their rates 
between zero and 5 percent, or plan to do so later in  the year. Several firms have done no hiring because 
of strong recent hiring or a desire to wait until stronger demand seems more certain. Other firms report 
stronger hiring, particularly related to health care co nsulting, in order to deal with increasing demand.  
Most contacts expect growth to remain strong or to pick up through the rest of 2013. One 
exception is a government contractor who is too uncer tain about future fiscal policy to offer a forecast. 
Other respondents seem minimally concerned about fiscal issues, the European debt crisis, and the state 
of the macro economy, a change from the recent past. One contact specifically notes that client businesses 
seem to have become comfortable with the level of uncertainty in the economy and are deciding to move 
forward with investment and business expansion rather than wait for more clarity; several other contacts’ 
reports are consistent with this characterization. 
Commercial Real Estate 
Reports from commercial real estate contacts in  the First District contain much good news. 
Boston contacts uniformly remark that the office leasing market has firmed up in recent months and that the vacancy rate is down significantly from one year ago. Activity is particularly strong in the seaport 
district, but financial district towers are also seeing absorption of long-vacant space. Investment sales 
I-3 
activity in greater Boston remains brisk, especially  for multifamily structures. Planned construction 
projects in Boston picked up considerably, with a fo cus on mixed-use projects, and should lead to job 
gains for the sector moving forward. In Hartford, th e state government purchased a large downtown office 
tower, absorbing a large block of Class A space, boosti ng business sentiment and, it is speculated, helping 
put upward pressure on rents. In Portland, the re tail property market saw healthy leasing activity and 
investment sales activity picked up modestly. In Providence, progress continues on some large office 
leasing deals (despite not yet leading to completions),  investment sales activity continues to rise, and 
business sentiment is seen as increasingly optimistic. On the downside, Hartford saw stagnant office 
leasing and virtually no construction activity, while Portland’s office vacancy rate remains stubbornly 
high at 12 percent. Small-scale commercial real estat e loan demand remains well below last year’s pace, 
according to one regional lender. Construction materi als costs are on the rise, putting pressure on profit 
margins at small firms in particular. 
In Portland, property fundamentals are expected  to remain flat despite forecasts of healthy 
transaction volume and a possible increase in hiring by so me large firms. In Hartford, the outlook remains 
cautiously optimistic. In Providence, upside risks to  absorption and rents remain, while the federal 
sequester poses a threat to the stat e’s defense industry. In Boston, one contact expects improvement in 
fundamentals to remain slow while another expects absorption to accelerate if employment growth continues at its current pace. Boston is expected to remain a magnet for investors owing to its strength in 
the health and education sectors. However, Bost on contacts continue to e xpress concern over property 
valuations that appear high in relation to income-growth potential.  
Residential Real Estate 
Strong consecutive months of year-over-year gr owth in single-family homes sales halted in 
February, with some New England states experienci ng marginal increases and most observing a decline. 
According to contacts, buyer demand remains strong,  but dwindling inventory levels have hampered 
growth in sales. Meanwhile, median sale prices across  the region rose from a year ago. Contacts attribute 
the price rise to the declining stock of distressed properties compared to a year ago as well as to the 
general decline in inventory reduc ing supply relative to demand. Par ticularly in urban areas throughout 
New England, decreasing inventory le vels have placed upward pressure on prices. In the Greater Boston 
area, contacts report that multiple bids on properti es have become more common as inventory continues 
to dwindle.  
Contacts express concern that low inventory levels  in the next several months could discourage 
buyers and continue to be a significant factor limiting the growth of sales. On the other hand, inventory 
levels may rise with the beginning of the busy spring season. In addition, rising prices will eventually lure 
into the market sellers who have been waiting for the value of their homes to pick up before listing them. 
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
Economic growth in the Second District has picked up somewhat since the last report.  
Business contacts continue to report moderate i nput price pressures but most report their selling 
prices remain steady.  There has been fairly broad-based strengthening in labor market conditions.   
Retailers report that sales have generally been strong and ahead of plan in March, and auto sales have remained fairly robust.  Tourism activity has generally been strong in recent weeks, though Broadway theaters have been in a bit of a slump.   Commercial and especially residential real estate 
markets have strengthened since the last report.  Finally, bankers report widespread increases in loan 
demand, continued narrowing in loan spreads, and further modest declines in delinquency rates. 
Consumer Spending  
Retailers report that sales were generally brisk in March.  One major chain reports that same-
store sales were ahead of plan—especially in and around New York City—and up modestly from March 2012 levels.  A contact in upstate New York also reports that mall sales were brisk in March 
and up from a year ago, following a tepid performance in February; some of the recent strength is 
attributed to Canadian shoppers.  Inventories are reported to be in good shape, prices are characterized as steady, and no unusual discounting is reported.   
Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales have remained 
fairly strong since the last report.  February sales were roughly on par with comparable 2012 levels, 
despite an exceptionally strong performance a year ago; March appears to be shaping up as a solid 
month as well.  Used vehicle sales are reported to have softened a bit, but this is largely attributed to attractive deals in the new car market.  Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases are reported to be in good shape.  
Tourism activity has been mostly robust since the last report.  Manhattan hotels report 
continued brisk business in February and March: revenue per room was up nearly 15 percent, driven 
by a combination of high and rising occupancy rates and escalating room rates.  Hotels in the outer 
 
 II-2 
boroughs continue to see fairly strong business, partly reflecting ongoing demand from Sandy 
recovery workers, and also from displaced reside nts.  On the other hand, Broadway theaters report 
some weakening in both attendance and revenues since mid-February; they have been running below 
comparable 2012 levels by roughly 8 percent and 4 percent, respectively.  Finally, consumer 
confidence in the region has ebbed somewhat.  The Conference Board’s survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence retreating in March after rising in February, and Siena College’s survey of New York State residents shows a similar pattern.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Residential real estate markets in the District  have shown increasingly widespread signs of 
improvement in recent weeks.  New York City apartment rents, which had flattened out in the final months of 2012, have accelerated in early 2013 and ar e reported to be up 6-7 percent from a year ago 
in Manhattan and by somewhat more in Brooklyn.  With respect to the city’s co-op and condo market, a major appraisal firm reports that sale s volume has strengthened, while the inventory of 
apartments for sale is down sharply to one of the lowest levels on record.  Most of the new 
development is at the upper end of the market, while low inventories across the rest of the spectrum have begun to drive up selling prices across New York City, as well as in Westchester County and Long Island.  Multiple offers (bidding wars), th ough hardly the norm, are becoming more frequent 
across the region. Prime areas of Brooklyn, where ma rket conditions are particularly strong, are 
reported to be seeing a good deal of commercial-to-residential conversion.  Similarly, an expert on 
northern New Jersey’s housing market reports continued improvement in market conditions: the volume of distressed properties there has been shrinking, with noticeably fewer homes moving into delinquency or foreclosure recently.  Still, prices have moved up only modestly, held back by a slow foreclosure process.  Buffalo-area Realtors also report strong market fundamentals—declining 
inventories and fairly rapid price appreciation.   
 
 II-3 
Commercial real estate markets across the Distri ct have also shown signs of improvement in 
the first quarter.  Office vacancy rates continued to decline across Manhattan, and asking rents rose—particularly in the Midtown South area—while v acancy rates edged down and asking rents were little 
changed in Long Island and northern New Jersey.  Office vacancy rates in New York City and Long 
Island are currently at their lowest levels in a number of years.  In contrast, office vacancy rates remain near multi-year highs in northern New Je rsey, as well as in Westchester and Fairfield 
counties; one New Jersey contact describes new c onstruction activity there as “moribund”.  In New 
York City, though, commercial construction activity has been more robust, particularly in Lower 
Manhattan, reflecting ongoing work on the World Trade Center complex and a new major transit hub 
and complex. Industrial markets have been mixed: vacancy rates are down and rents up fairly sharply on Long Island, whereas both are little changed at sl uggish levels in northern New Jersey, and in 
Westchester and Fairfield counties.   
Other Business Activity 
Contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors report steady business activity in recent 
weeks, while they remain broadly optimistic about prospects for 2013.  In general, price pressures are 
reported to be steady and moderate in the manufacturing sector but more widespread among service-sector businesses; a small but growing number of se rvice-sector contacts say they are increasing their 
selling prices.   
There are growing signs of improvement in the job market.  In general, more business 
contacts indicate that they plan to increase than reduce staff in the months ahead.  A major employment agency reports that demand for temps remains strong, and that firms are also hiring more full-time workers, as well as transitioning more temps to full-time positions.  Qualified job candidates are increasingly hard to find, and more job-seekers are now getting multiple job offers.  
An employment agency contact reports increased  hiring activity from a broad cross-section of 
industries, including financial services and publishi ng, which had been sluggish.  Another contact in 
 
 II-4 
the employment services industry notes particularly strong demand for IT workers.  While starting 
salary offers remain fairly stable in general, em ployers are reportedly often willing to pay top dollar 
for tech workers with specialized skills.  
Financial Developments  
Small- to medium-sized banks report an increase in demand for commercial loans and 
mortgages but little change in demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages. Bankers report an uptick in demand for refinancing.  Credit standards are reported to be unchanged across all loan categories.  Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan 
categories—particularly for consumer loans, where roughly one in four bankers reports lower spreads 
and no respondent reports higher spreads.  Responde nts also indicate continued decreases in average 
deposit rates.  Finally, bankers report continued modest declines in delinquency rates on all categories of loans.  
III - 1 
 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
Aggregate business activity in the Third Di strict has maintained the modest pace of 
growth that was evident during the previous Be ige Book period. In partic ular, general services, 
staffing, tourism, and commercial real estate l easing continued to expa nd at modest rates. 
General retail activity and residential constructio n appear to have decelerated somewhat, to a 
modest rate of growth. Sales of new and used autos maintained a moderate rate of growth as did 
residential real estate sales. Transportation servic es accelerated to a moderate pace of growth this 
period. The manufacturing sector reported slight increases in overall demand – a pickup since 
last period. Loan growth at Thir d District banks softened – grow ing little, while credit quality 
continued to improve. Resorts in  the Pocono Mountains maintained  good activity, as they shifted 
from their winter to spring season. Casino revenues  continued to decline. General price levels, as 
well as wages and home prices, were reported to ha ve increased slightly overall – similar to the 
last Beige Book period.  
The overall outlook for modest growth remains the same as those views expressed in the 
last Beige Book. While some uncertainty remain s as sequestration unfolds, contacts express 
greater confidence in the underlying strength of  the economy. However, many contacts continue 
to hold off on their plans to expand capacity and hire more staff. 
 
Manufacturing.   Since the last Beige Book, Third Di strict manufacturers have reported 
that orders and shipments have risen slightl y. The makers of food products, lumber and wood 
products, fabricated metals, industrial machiner y, electronic equipment, and instruments have 
reported gains since the last Beige Book. The make rs of primary metals reported lower activity. 
Contacts have attributed the gr eatest gains to ongoing auto-rela ted demand and growing demand 
from housing-related sectors; the greatest uncertain ty was attached to milit ary-related sectors.  
Third District manufacturers remained optim istic that business conditions will improve 
over the next six months; their optimism is expre ssed broadly across nearly all sectors. A contact 
from a lumber and wood products firm reported the best growth prospects in five years due to a 
firming housing market; another wood products firm was hiring to  expand capacity to meet 
growing demand. However, firms overall have some what lowered their expectations of future 
hiring and their plans for capital sp ending since the la st Beige Book.  
 
Retail.   Third District retailers reported modest  growth overall in February and March. 
After a falloff in sales (year over year) at many malls in Februar y, contacts report that March 
sales were stronger and that an early Easter  should boost the month’ s final results. During 
March, stores had increased their promotions to move spring appa rel to make way for the arrival 
III - 2 
 
of the summer lineup; meanwhile, lingering co ld weather had shoppers  still searching for 
appropriate winter wear . In contrast, shoppers enjoyed warm er overall temperatures last year, 
including one 80-degree da y during March to splurge on spring clothes.  
Although February ended with softer sales, auto dealers have continued to report a 
moderate pace of overall sales growth since the last Beige Book. Growth in sales has been as 
strong as last year despite wors e weather, which has created up- and-down weekly sales patterns. 
A late March snowstorm and an  early calendar-year appearan ce for Passover and Easter may 
have dampened sales in the final week of March. Dealers sustaine d a positive outlook but 
maintained lean inventories. Contacts reported that  nearly half of the deal ers plan to add staff, 
especially for sales and service. Most of the rema ining dealers expect no ch ange in staff levels.  
 
Finance.   Overall, loan growth among Third District financial firms has softened 
somewhat since the previous Beige Book – growing little if at all. Cont acts suggested the lull 
might be partially explained by the relative dearth of big deals in the wake of the fourth quarter 
frenzy, plus more immediate concerns for the pending sequestration impacts. Mortgage 
refinancings as a percent of total mortgages fell at many firms (often from  as much as 90 percent 
to 75 percent). Total loans secured by any real estate fell slightly dur ing the period. Most bank 
contacts report little change in  credit standards and slow, stea dy gains in quality; many continue 
to report aggressive behavior from some of  their bank and nonbank competitors. Financial 
institutions remain optimistic about future grow th; however, the horizon for this growth appears 
farther away.  
 
Real Estate and Construction.   Homebuilders reported that contract activity was near 
plan for February and March. Modest year-over-year  growth rates were slower than last period; 
however, more new homes were rising from the ground in the first quarter of 2013 than in any 
year since 2008. Compared with historical patterns , current new construction tends to be smaller, 
more affordable, more rental, and more urban. Bu ilders are prepared to hi re if current trends 
continue but are reporting that  good labor is increasingly scarce.  Residential brokers reported 
little change in the moderate pace of sales; however, year-over-year growth in February was 
modest compared with last year when weathe r was unseasonably warm. The existing inventory 
of homes continues to fall, and bank contacts reported that in vestor loans used to convert 
residential properties to rentals are increasing.  
Nonresidential real estate contacts reported little change  overall – maintaining modest 
growth in overall leasi ng activity and slight growth in cons truction. A drop-off in the recently 
high level of contract values being bid for constr uction of public utilities projects was partially 
offset by bids for residential construction (i ncluding a $200 million high -rise apartment and a 
university dorm project). Many contracts for repa ir work from Hurricane Sandy have yet to go to 
III - 3 
 
bid. Investors appear to have increased developm ent activity in Delaware’s shore communities in 
expectation of attracting more tourists from New York and New Jerse y. Overall, contacts are 
more optimistic, citing increased inquiries, more co mmitments to decisions, rather than deferrals, 
and more deals to approve.  
 
Services.   Third District service-sector firms ha ve maintained a modest pace of growth 
overall since the last Beige Book. Resorts in th e Poconos were still enjoying an extended ski 
season, as their golf s eason was getting underway. Moderate growth through their winter season 
was boosted by early spring holiday weekends. Expecta tions that the positive  trend will continue 
were buoyed by strong bookings for Memorial Da y. Strong, early bookings for summer were 
also reported by the operators of Delaware shor e hotels, who report gettin g more inquiries from 
New Jersey and New York reside nts this year. However, casi no revenues for February fell by 
double digits in Atlantic City and by nearly  eight percent throughout Pennsylvania from the 
prior-year levels.  
In other sectors, staffing firms reported sma ll increases in billable hours over the past 
month and project the trend to cont inue for three to six weeks based on their flow of work orders.  
Activity at logistics and transpor t firms grew moderately. Howeve r, firms with defense-related 
work and other entities dependent on federal money (e.g., higher education) are now anticipating 
somewhat lower levels of employment and activ ity for the remainder of this year. Overall, 
service-sector firms remain generally  optimistic about future growth.   
 
Prices and Wages.   Overall, price levels continued to  increase slightly, similar to the 
previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reporte d only modest cost pressures and a slight 
decline in prices received – essentially uncha nged from last period. Auto dealers reported no 
changes in pricing. Homebuilders continued to no te higher prices, especi ally for lumber and 
labor costs. Higher-end homebuilders reported some  ability to make price increases stick. Real 
estate contacts continued to re port that low-end house prices are firm or rising slightly, while 
high-end home prices are still falling in most  markets. Outside of homebuilders, contacts 
continued to report that wages ro se only slightly, if at all. C ontacts continued to relay a wide 
range of costs and strategies to provide medical  insurance benefits for their employees; their 
decision processes remain fraught with confusion and uncertainty.  
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Business activity in the Fourth District ex panded at a moderate pace during the past six 
weeks.  Manufacturing orders and production we re mostly higher.  The momentum seen in 
residential construction since the beginning of  the year, including multi family, has been 
maintained.  Nonresidential construction activity increased slightly, but remains below levels 
seen in the second half of last year.  Retail sales volume between mid-February and mid-March 
was higher relative to the lack luster post-holiday period, while new motor vehicle sales posted 
moderate gains on a year-over-year basis.  C onventional and unconventiona l natural gas and oil 
production was stable, but a pickup  is expected later in the y ear as additional gas processing 
units come on line.  Output at coal mines trended lower.  Freight transport volume exceeded projections made late last year.  Demand for business and consumer credit was higher when 
compared to early in the first quarter. 
Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors,  although the pace has picked up among 
home builders since the start of the year.  Staffing-firm represen tatives reported that the number 
of job openings and placements rose slightl y, with vacancies found pr imarily in industrial 
production.  Wage pressures were co ntained.  Input prices were st able, apart from increases in 
construction materials.   
Manufacturing.  Reports from  District factories indica ted that new orders and 
production were mostly higher during the past six weeks.  Companies seeing the most activity 
were suppliers to the residential constructi on, shale gas, and transportation industries.  
Manufacturers serving the defense and commerc ial building industrie s experienced some 
weakening in new orders.  Exports to Pacific Rim countries improved, while exports to Europe 
diminished.  Compared to a year ago, manuf acturing activity was mixe d.  Steel producers and 
service centers reported that th e pickup in shipping volume early in  the first quarter has leveled 
off.  Excess steel produced in China and Europe is now being imported into the United States in 
larger quantities.  Auto production at District plants rose at a moderate pace during February on a 
month-over-month basis.  Compared to a year ago, production numbers were little changed.  
Many manufacturing contacts remain cautiously optimis tic about near-term growth prospects.     
Capacity utilization rates st ood within their normal ranges .  Steel producers reported 
reducing inventories during the past six weeks, wh ile inventories at othe r factories held steady.
  
Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year.  Most outlays ar e allocated for technology 
that will be used to enhance productivity.   Li ttle capacity expansion is planned.  Raw material 
and finished goods prices were flat or trended lo wer.  Many manufacturers noted that their ability 
to raise prices during 2013 is lik ely to be very limited.  Manufactur ing payrolls were stable and 
wage pressures are contained.        
Real Estate.  Sales of new and existing single-fam ily homes continued on an upward 
trend since our last report, and sales were higher  than a year ago.  Cont racts were found mainly 
in the mid- to higher-price-point categories.  Demand for multi-family housing remains strong.  
A developer of market-rate apartments describe d activity as very good.  Another developer said 
IV - 2  
that demand for affordable rental units is surg ing. While builders expresse d confidence that the 
improvement in the housing market will persist in the upcoming months, they still see the 
appraisal process and the availability of financi ng as headwinds to more robust growth.  Reports 
indicated that list prices  of new homes increased by 1 to 2 per cent this year, which was attributed 
to shrinking inventories and rising prices for building materials, especially lumber and drywall.  
Builders have cut back on discounting.   
Nonresidential contractors saw a modest increase in activity, relative to the 
January/February time period.  The number of  inquiries is rising, but many builders are 
underbidding in an effort to keep their resource s engaged.  As a result, tight margins are being 
compressed even further.  Project work is f ound mainly in manufacturing, large multifamily 
developments (affordable, market rate, and senior ), and shale gas infrastructure.  Our contacts 
are cautious about near-term activity.  Many builder s pointed to uncertainty in the market and 
clients who are unwilling to take risks at this time.  In addition, the time-consuming process of 
financing a project is holding back  some clients.  Little change was reported in prices of building 
materials.  
General contractors (residential and nonresiden tial) expect subcontra ctors will attempt to 
raise their rates and push through pr ice increases for materials by the second half of this year.  
The potential rise was attributed to a dwi ndling number of subcontracting businesses and 
stronger demand.  Residentia l builders are hiring at a moderate pace, especially field personnel.  
Nonresidential builders are looking to hire a few project managers and back-office employees.  
Concerns about difficulties in finding qualified workers and escalating healthcare benefit costs 
were widespread.   
Consumer Spending.  Most retailers reported that sa les volume for the period from mid-
February through mid-March was hi gher relative to the previous  30-day period.  Rising volume 
was particularly evident in appa rel and electronics.  Store mana gers who experienced a downturn 
in sales cited higher gasoline prices and taxes as  contributing factors. Second-quarter sales are 
expected to be up slightly, when compared to the same quarter last year.  Vendor and shelf prices 
held steady.  A food producer commented that agricultural commodity prices, though elevated, 
are fairly stable, and he anticipates little upwar d pressure on prices attr ibutable to food during 
2013.  Capital expenditures were on plan for th e fiscal year.  One retail chain projected 
significantly higher capital investme nt this year, but much of it is allocated for remodeling older 
stores.  No hiring is anticipated, ex cept for staffing new stores.    
  Year-to-date sales of new mo tor vehicles showed a moderate increase during February 
compared to the same time period a year ago.  A few dealers noted that cold weather had curbed 
consumer enthusiasm.  Buyers continue to prefer  smaller, fuel-efficient cars and compact SUVs.  
Large pick-up trucks were big sellers in regions with significant shale ga s activity.  New-vehicle 
inventories were higher than most  dealers would like.  Our cont acts are cautiously optimistic 
about sales prospects for the year, with most projecting 5 percent to 10 percent growth over 
2012.  However, some are concerned about fiscal  policy decisions and th e potentially negative 
IV - 3  
impact they could have on the economy and consum er spending.  Sales of used vehicles declined 
during February.  Leasing is trending higher, wh ich should help to replenish the used-vehicle 
inventory.  Financing continues to  loosen except for those buyers with low credit scores.  Dealers 
are reluctant to add to their sales staff at this time.         
Banking.  Demand for business credit has picked up since our last report.  Although 
requests originated from a broad range of sect ors, commercial real estate and manufacturing 
stood out.  Loan pricing remains under pressure.  Reports on consumer credit also showed a 
small rise in demand, mainly for home-equity produc ts and auto loans.  Bankers noted a slight 
drop-off in residential mortgage activity; however, there was a definite shift in applications from 
refinancing to new purchase.  Delinquency rate s held steady or declined across consumer and 
commercial loan categories.  No changes were ma de to loan-application standards.  Aggregate 
core deposits grew; customers continue to transf er monies from non-liquid to liquid accounts.  
Bankers remain very concerned about shrinking ne t interest margins.  In response, some are 
considering raising fees in all areas.  On balan ce, there was little cha nge in payrolls.  Two 
bankers reported rising employment numbers due to acquisitions.     
Energy.  Coal production continued to trend dow n across the District, with lower 
production projected for the near term.  One producer commented that demand from electric 
utilities has risen slightly due to an extended pe riod of cold weather and an uptick in natural gas 
prices.  Spot prices for metall urgical and steam-coal are up somewh at.  Output from conventional 
and unconventional oil and natural gas wells was steady during th e past couple of months.  In the 
wet gas regions of Ohio and West Virginia, output should begin to increase later in the year as 
newly constructed gas processing units come on lin e.  Well-head prices for oil and gas rose 
slightly.  Rig count in the Distri ct was stable during the first quar ter.  Capital expenditures were 
at targeted levels, with little  change expected.  Production equi pment and material prices were 
flat across most categories.  Oil and gas payrol ls held steady, while coal operators reported 
additional layoffs.      
Freight Transportation.  For the most part, our contacts  reported that shipping volume 
was somewhat higher than expected for this ti me of year, although no product area stands out.  
Freight executives are more optim istic about growth prospects than  earlier in the year, and some 
believe that their growth projecti ons for 2013 may be too low.  Dies el-fuel prices have started to 
trend down from high levels, which carriers passe d through via surcharges.  Costs associated 
with equipment and maintenance items were stable .  Capital spending was generally down in the 
first quarter of this year relative to late last year.  However, our contac ts believe that spending 
will begin to pick up in the second quarter.  On e executive stated that he has an aggressive 
spending plan in place, which includes capac ity and footprint expansion.  Hiring is for 
replacement and capacity expansion.  New hours- of-service regulations (federal) may prompt 
additional hiring, but it will put upward pressure  on shipping prices.  Wage pressures are 
contained.  
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview.  The District economy grew moderately overall in recent weeks, although activity 
varied by sector.  Manufacturing production continued to expa nd but at a somewhat slower pace. 
Revenues at  non-retail services firms steadied at modera te growth, and tourism strengthened . Retail sales 
contracted, with the notable exception of robust light vehicle sales.  Lending remained stable, with a slight 
uptick in demand for residential mortgages.  The residential real estate sector generally strengthened, and 
commercial real estate and construction markets improved.  Cold, wet weather hindered spring plantings 
by farmers , while oil and natural gas production maintained  a moderate pace during the past six weeks.  
Labor markets were mixed since our last report.  Manufacturers’ input and fini shed goods prices moved up 
at a slightly slower rate, and wage increases also slowed. The pace of price change slowed at services 
firms, while wage increases in that sector were more widespread. Retail prices rose more slowly, and 
average retail wages declined. 
Manufacturing. Fifth District manufacturing production expanded at a somewhat slower pace 
since our last report. A textile maker reported that  his business was slow with the exception of automotive 
products. He expected a pickup in non-automotive business during the next few months, however. A 
producer of electrical components told us that business was poor in the U.S. but good in Europe and Latin America. Additionally, a textile manufacturer indicat ed that while sales levels had improved, his outlook 
remained cautious. Moreover, a dental equipment pr oducer noted that work volumes had increased earlier 
this year, but that the market recently softened. On  the other hand, a manufacturer of technical foam 
products commented that sales through the first quarter  of 2013 had been solid and he expected a strong 
year. According to our latest survey, prices grew at a slightly slower rate for both raw materials and finished goods. 
Ports. We received a variety of reports on District port activity. A port executive commented that 
European-bound vessels were leaving the port lighter th an in the past, which he attributed to weaker 
economies there. In particular, exports of construc tion and agricultural equipment were down since the 
start of 2013. In a smaller District port, container shipments matched year-ago levels, while exports of 
lumber and plywood recently picked up, and corn a nd grain exports from the Midwest were up over last 
year’s low, drought-related levels. A contact in W est Virginia remarked on port bottlenecks of coal 
exports. Container traffic increased at larger District por ts, with continued strength in trade of auto parts. 
Drivers of import growth in recent weeks were cons umer housing goods such as furniture and flooring. 
The inland port in Greer, South Carolina remained on target  to officially open in the third quarter of 2013; 
that port is expected to shift cargo from trucks to railroads.  
Retail. Retail sales fell in recent weeks in most categories, and shopper traffic was down. In 
Virginia Beach, a store manager at a chain discount  store commented that persistent cold weather 
 V-2  
softened overall sales, particularly sales of seasonal items. In contrast, a few surveyed retailers and 
wholesalers in construction-related lines indicated that  revenues rose over the reporting period. Also, auto 
sales remained constant at high levels. Consumer confidence, improved stability in middle-class home 
values, and low interest rates underpinned strong sal es and good performance on auto financing. Contacts 
in the industry noted that used car prices remained relatively high, narrowing the spread relative to new 
car prices. Survey respondents indicated that overall,  retail price increases were less prevalent since our 
last report.  
Services. Activity at services firms remained steady at a moderate pace. Seasonal businesses such 
as tax services and landscaping reported higher revenu es, while most other services providers noted little 
change. Prices at services firms rose at a sl ower pace, according to our latest survey. 
Tourism generally  increased over the past month, although most areas reported delayed spring 
weather. Cold weather in the nation’s capital moved th e Cherry Blossom Festival’s peak bloom time into 
April.  A contact on the outer banks of North Carolin a commented that despite cool weather, Easter and 
spring break brought plenty of tourists. In additio n, an upscale resort in western North Carolina had 
higher bookings.  A contact in Charleston, South Caro lina noted that the addition of a national airline is 
expected to strengthen the local hospitality industry.  Several hoteliers and rental agents across North 
Carolina expected to be able to rai se transient rates by three to six per cent this year, but they anticipated a 
decline in government-rate bookings as a result of sequestration. 
Finance. Loan demand remained relatively stable since our last assessment. Although most 
bankers reported a slight uptick in demand for reside ntial mortgages, they noted that demand for both 
commercial mortgages and other business loans flatte ned. An exception was a banker in North Carolina 
who cited a modest increase in business loan demand driv en by the need to replace assets. In addition, no 
significant changes in delinquencies or credit quality were reported, apart from improvement reported by 
an Eastern Shore banker and a West Virginia contact . Bankers indicated that competition continued to 
intensify, compressing already-tight margins.  A fe w lenders said that their competitors were lowering 
collateral requirements and fixing interest rates for a longer period, just to close deals. Contacts also 
reported a decrease in customers’ willingness to take  on debt. For example, a Virginia banker observed 
that prospective homebuyers now request a specific monthly payment and no longer inquire about the maximum amount for which they could qualify.  
Real Estate. Residential real estate activity generally strengthened in this reporting period. A 
contact in North Carolina stated that residential r eal estate was booming and inventories were low. A 
Realtor in the Washington, D.C. area reported an  increase in purchases for renovation and resale. He 
stated that inventory was down thirty-five percent fro m last year, and some developers were offering all 
cash, non-contingent contracts for well above list price.  Similarly, a Realtor in the metro-Richmond area 
said foot traffic rose, which he attributed to the lim ited supply of homes, pent up demand, and low interest 
 V-3  
rates. A contact in Charlotte reported that low i nventories of residential building materials had put 
building permits on hold. Similarly, a source in Hamp ton Roads, Virginia reported that sequestration had 
put potential buyers on the sidelines.  
 Commercial real estate and construction market s improved since our last report. A Richmond 
Realtor reported a steady increase in leasing activity. A source in Charlotte cited a rise in land and retail 
investment transactions and more hospitality-related renovations. Most contacts described a tight supply 
of Class A office space, with positive absorption and d eclining vacancy rates. Several Realtors said that 
discounts could still be found for Class B or C space. A representative of a large construction firm in 
Baltimore reported that activity was very strong, esp ecially for healthcare buildings and data centers, and 
the outlook was “extremely positive.” A contact in the Washington, D.C. area also reported several large 
projects under construction. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources.  Cold temperatures and wet weather delayed land 
preparation and hindered spring plantings in the ag ricultural sector. Hay supplies were running low in 
some regions, resulting in higher demand for supplemen tal feeding. However, a contact on the Eastern 
Shore of Maryland stated that poultry production a nd agriculture were doing well, grain and land prices 
were good, and the overall outlook was positive. 
Conventional oil and natural gas production mainta ined a moderate pace and the rig count in 
West Virginia was little changed since our last report. Coal production declined. A source in West Virginia attributed the drop to displacement of coal  by natural gas, although coal exports had partially 
offset lower domestic demand.  
Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity were mixed since our last report. On the 
one hand, manufacturing firms in the Carolinas reported temporary layoffs due to softness in orders, and 
contacts in sectors from real estate to wholesale trade to manufacturing said that they were reducing staff 
or not expanding due to the Affordable Care Act. On  the other hand, a Maryland  firm planned to add 200 
to 250 engineers as a result of the recent pick-up in construction, and a lumber firm increased its average 
employee work week. Moreover, contacts from a num ber of temp agencies cited stronger demand for 
workers, resulting in part from uncertainty about federal fiscal policies. The highest demand was for 
information technology workers; short supply pus hed up their wages. Demand for telecommunication 
workers picked up, as carriers upgraded systems. Ad ditionally, demand for automobile industry workers 
strengthened. According to our latest surveys, average wages at non-retail services firms rose more 
quickly, while manufacturing wages rose at a slower  pace in recent weeks and retail wages declined.  
VI-1 
 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Sixth District business co ntacts reported that econo mic activity continued to 
advance at a modest pace from mid-February through March.  Repor ts across sectors were generally 
positive and expectations for the coming months remained optimistic. 
Retail reports were mixed with some retailers  citing improved sales and others feeling the 
pinch from a constrained consumer .  Hospitality contacts reported  healthy activity in both leisure 
and business travel.  Homebuilders and brokers experienced further improvements in sales and 
prices of new and existing homes, and inventories continued to decl ine on a year-over-year basis.  
Commercial contractors noted a strong year to date  as construction levels improved from late last 
year.  Overall, manufacturing activity remained positive as new orders and production increased.  Loan demand remained steady according to bankers.  Payrolls continued to grow at a tepid pace as 
firms remained reluctant in hiring due to uncerta inty over fiscal policy a nd healthcare reform.  
Prices remained stable and most firms continued to  report having relatively little pricing power.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  District merchants reported mixed results from mid-
February through March.  Severa l contacts indicated improvements in profit margins and sales over 
the last three months, while others noted that th ey experienced the result of consumers taking a hit 
with the expiration of the payroll tax cut, increased fuel prices, a delay in income tax refunds, and 
increased health insurance premiums.  Yet, even with these challenges, most retailers remained 
reasonably upbeat.  District automotive contacts cited favorable sales fo r the same time period. 
Travel and tourism activity remained robus t and continued to exceed expectations, 
especially in the leisure segm ent.  Although government and business bookings decreased due to 
location restrictions and/or budgeta ry constraints, overall demand re mained healthy.  Concerns that 
gas prices could dampen summer travel continued;  however, hospitality cont acts anticipate activity 
to still exceed 2012 levels.  Internat ional visitation for leis ure and convention trav el continued to be 
a strong contributor to growth de spite the strength of the dollar. 
Real Estate and Construction.  According to District brokers , housing markets across the 
region continued to improve.  Recent sales growth was described as strong on a year-over-year basis.  Existing home inventories continued to contract and brokers noted that this was restraining 
sales.  Furthermore, many reported receiving multiple  offers on properties, particularly at the low-
end of the market.  Most indicate d that home prices rose modestly compared with a year earlier.  
Appreciation was strongest among Fl orida contacts.  Overall, the outlook for existing home sales 
growth over the next several months remained positive. 
VI-2 
 
Similar to our last report, homebuilders report ed that recent new home sales were ahead of 
year earlier levels, and they noted  improving levels of buyer traffic across the region.  Just over half 
said that new home inventorie s were below the year-ago level .  The portion of builders 
characterizing home prices as up relative to a year ago also rose compared to our previous report.  
Reports also cited that new home construction was ahead of last yea r’s level.  Contacts remarked 
that access to construction financing had improved so mewhat from late last year, but the majority 
continued to report that the numbe r of actual loans made  was still short of demand.  The outlook for 
construction activity and new home sales over the ne xt several months remained positive with most 
anticipating levels to be slightly ahead on a year-over-year basis.    
District commercial real estate contacts indicated that the first quarter of this year had 
started off solid compared with the end of last  year.  Commercial br okers reported that net 
absorption was positive.  Contacts also noted gr owing optimism as businesses in the office and 
industrial sector began to position themselves for growth over the next 12 to 18 months.  However, 
the demand for retail space remained soft across most of the region.  Contacts remarked that 
investor interest had spread to s econdary and tertiary markets, part icularly in the apartment sector 
where demand had been especially strong.  Comm ercial contractors cited that construction 
improved from late last year and backlogs were up  as well.  Activity was dominated by build-to-suit 
projects.  Most contacts expect Dist rict commercial real estate market s to improve further this year.   
Manufacturing and Transportation.  Regional manufacturers re ported that activity 
expanded for the third consecutive month in March.  Increases in new orders, production, 
employment, and finished inventor y contributed to the highest leve l of manufacturi ng activity since 
May 2012.  Contacts noted profit margins slightly improved from mid-February through March.  
However, they do not expect production to be as  high in the coming months as they had in our 
previous report.   
District trucking contacts repor ted a slowdown in volume, citing reduced imports of retail 
goods from west coast ports, along with poor weather conditions.  Still, volumes were ahead of year 
earlier levels.  Strong movement  of housing-related materials wa s cited as the housing recovery 
continued.  Railroad companies desc ribed activity as flat to slight ly down.  Chemicals and oil and 
gas showed the strongest growth, while coal refl ected some softening, particularly in export of 
thermal coal.  Intermodal growth remained solid  and the movement of forest products also 
improved.  Domestic air freight tr affic was up slightly, and interna tional tonnage grew compared to 
the same period last year, marked by increases in  Asian volumes and exports to Europe and Latin 
America, specifically Brazil.   
VI-3 
Banking and Finance.  Driven by historically low rates,  consumers continued refinancing 
mortgage loans and businesses continued restructur ing debt.  Competition remained intense for high 
quality loan applicants and community bankers noted that large region al and national banking 
organizations were more willing to offer lower fi xed-rate, longer-termed loans to attract these 
customers.  Many community banking contacts indicated that their institution had exited the 
mortgage lending business altogether because of  increased regulations.  Some stated that 
commercial real estate loan de mand had increased, particularly for branded hotel construction, 
healthcare, and multi-family projects.  Banks also cited more willingness to lend to small 
businesses; however, the ove rall demand for loans and credit line usage continued to remain low.  
Credit spreads remained tight and some bankers reported downward pressure on loan pricing. 
Employment and Prices.  Since our last report, payroll gr owth continued to increase at a 
lackluster pace across the District , though contacts continued to re port that uncertainty over fiscal 
policy and healthcare reform were contributing to reluctan ce in hiring.  In Flor ida and Georgia, the 
two states in the District with  the largest concentrations of  employment, unemployment rates 
declined slightly since the previous report, whil e unemployment rates have fluctuated in the four 
other states due to changes in the si ze of those states’ labor force.   
Input costs remained mostly stable.  Increases in prices for fuel and construction materials 
were viewed by most firms as transitory.  Year-a head unit cost expectatio ns were 1.9 percent in 
February and March, roughly unchanged since the be ginning of the year, according to the Atlanta 
Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations Survey.  Mo st businesses noted very little pricing power.  
Exceptions were transportation cont acts who were able to successfu lly cover cost increases using 
fuel surcharges, and retailers, w hose profit margins improved as sale s levels ticked up somewhat 
over the reporting period. 
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  The energy industry remained an especially bright 
spot in the region.  In particular , projects to increase the Gulf Co ast’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
export capacity—through investment in new LNG e xport facilities at ports and new transportation 
infrastructure, like pipeline and LNG tanks—were strong drivers of capit al and labor demand. 
Drought conditions improved significantly in Ge orgia, southeastern Alabama, and the 
Florida panhandle.  Since the last  report, monthly soybean and corn  prices rose moderately, while 
broiler prices reached record highs.  Cotton prices  continued to be below year-ago levels, but rose 
modestly since the last report.  Driven by increasing global demand and low interest rates, contacts 
reported continued investment in new, more efficient equipment re ducing both labor and fuel costs. 
 
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  Economic activity in the Seventh Distri ct expanded at a modest pace in March. 
In general, contacts remained cautiously op timistic about the economic outlook. Growth in 
consumer spending edged lower, while growth  in business spending picked up. Manufacturing 
production growth slowed. Residential construction continued to rise at a moderate pace, and 
nonresidential construction increase d slightly. Credit conditions rema ined favorable. Cost pressures 
were largely unchanged, and wage pressures remained moderate. Prices for corn, soybeans, milk, 
and hogs fell, while cattle pric es were little changed on net. 
Consumer spending . Growth in consumer spending edged lower in March. Retailers 
reported higher inventory levels in part because lingeri ng winter weather dela yed the introduction of 
spring-related merchandise sitting in  their warehouses. Some contacts  indicated that the end of the 
payroll tax credit was having an increasingly nega tive effect on retail sales. Nonetheless, sales 
during the Easter holiday were la rgely in-line with expectations. Home improvement and clothing 
stores reported lower sales than during the previous re porting period, but discount  stores noted an 
increase in sales of apparel. Sales of furniture  and appliances also rose, buoyed by the recent 
upswing in the housing market. In contrast, auto sale s leveled off. Dealers ar e still optimistic that 
sales will rise further year than  last year, and are building inve ntory for the spring selling season. 
Used vehicle prices remained elevated, boosting tr ade-in values. In addition, dealers noted that 
customers’ credit profiles continue to improve, allo wing more of them to qualify for auto loans.   
Business spending.  Growth in business spending pick ed up in March. Inventory levels 
increased slightly, and spending on equipment and software and on structur es picked up. However, 
a number of manufacturing contacts reiterated that they plan to make  capital expenditures this year 
only as necessary, delaying investments because of uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook. 
Labor market conditions improved sli ghtly. Hiring continued to increase.  Contacts indicated that 
there is still strong demand for talent in skilled professional and manufacturing jobs, and that 
shortages of qualified candidates re main in many of these occupatio ns. In addition, a staffing firm 
reported an increase in demand for its services from the manufacturing s ector. Other signs of 
improving labor demand also were reported, such as greater competition among employers to fill 
internships this year and a stronger jo b market for new college graduates.  
Construction/real estate .  Construction and real estate activity increased in March. Demand 
for residential construction rose, reflecting both continued strength in multifamily construction and 
 
 VII-2
an improving single-family housing market. The gains have helped buoy confidence among 
homebuilders. Development of single-family homes in urban areas picked up some after years of 
limited activity. More generally, home prices have increased for both new a nd existing homes, with 
inventories of homes for sale shrinking. Growth in nonresidentia l construction, particularly for 
smaller retail stores and in the industrial sector, conti nued to be moderate. Co mmercial real estate 
conditions also continued to improve, with re nts increasing and vacancy rates decreasing.  
Manufacturing .  Growth in manufacturing production slowed in March. Several contacts 
speculated that the uncertainty surrounding sequestration had affected their customer’s orders. 
However, they had yet to see much evidence of this  in their shipments. That  said, a contact did note 
that his military customers were actively seeking to squeeze out any potential inefficiencies in their 
supply chain in an effort to lower their costs in anticipation of tighter future defense budgets. 
Demand for steel was flat, and steel service center i nventories were slightly above desirable levels. 
Specialty metal manufacturers reported declines  in new orders, although backlogs remained 
elevated. Activity in the energy sector was mixed, with natura l gas-related industries reporting 
stronger activity but the coal industry remaining weaker. Dema nd for heavy equipment was also 
mixed. Mining activity, particularly for coal, continued to decline. However, contacts indicated that 
construction equipment distributors and rental companies remain optimistic, pointing to the ongoing 
recovery in the housing market as a potential sour ce of strength in the second half of the year. 
Demand for heavy and medium-duty trucks remained firm; and the auto industry continued to be a 
source of strength. Manufacturers of building ma terials and consumer products also noted an 
increase in demand with the exceptio n of lawn and garden equipment. 
Banking/finance . Credit conditions remained favora ble over the reporting period. Credit 
spreads and financial market volatility continue d to be low. Banking contacts reported moderate 
growth in business lending, especi ally to small businesses and for the purposes of expanding and 
upgrading of facilities. Real estate lending also reportedly picked up. Increased competition for 
borrowers was noted to be putting downward pr essure on pricing and loosening commercial and 
industrial loan standards.  Consumer borrowing also rose modestl y, with a further increase in auto 
lending reported over the reporting pe riod. Several financial contacts not ed that the recent rise in 
equity and home prices appear to be boosting consumer confidence and spending. That said, a 
financial services industry cont act indicated that consumer borrowing had been lower than 
anticipated given recent increa ses in consumer spending. 
 
 VII-3
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures were roughly uncha nged, on balance, in March. Commodity 
prices were down slightly, and en ergy prices remained elevated. Scrap metal prices continued to 
decline, and a contact in the i ndustry speculated that weaker de mand from China was largely to 
blame. Contacts did note some upwa rd price pressure on raw materials such as chemicals, lumber, 
and concrete as well as on transportation costs, but said that pass-through to downstream prices was 
limited. Retailers reported mostly modest wholes ale price increases. Wage pressures remained 
moderate, although several contacts indicated increasing concern over the rising cost of healthcare. 
Other cost pressures that were mentioned includ ed higher property taxes and regulatory costs.    
Agriculture .  Cold weather delayed field work dur ing the reporting period, but there was 
little concern expressed by contac ts that planting would be seri ously delayed. Corn and soybean 
prices dropped based on expectations  of a larger crop this year and current stocks that are not as 
tight as anticipated. Contacts indica ted that the number of soybean acres should be higher than the 
prior year in the District, while corn acres should be lower. Farmers seemed to increase their levels 
of crop insurance relative to last year. Milk prices moved lower duri ng the reporting period, but 
remained above the levels of a year ago. Hog prices fell and were unde r year-ago levels. Cattle 
prices moved sideways during the reporting period, but were below the levels of a year ago. Some 
livestock producers were reportedly taking advantage of low long-term  interest rates by refinancing 
and lengthening the maturity of their debt.  
 
 VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
The economy of the Eighth District has expande d at a moderate pace since our previous 
report. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing have been positive, while recent reports of planned activity in the service sector have been mixed. Residential real estate market 
conditions have continued to improve throughout  most of the District, and commercial and 
industrial real estate market c onditions have also improved in ma ny areas of the District. Total 
lending at a sample of small a nd midsized District banks remain ed largely unchanged from mid-
December 2012 to mid-March 2013. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Reports of plans for manufacturing activity ha ve been positive since our previous report. 
Several manufacturing firms reported significant plans to add workers, expand operations, or 
open new facilities in the Eighth District, while  a smaller number of manufacturers reported 
plans to lay off workers. Firms in printing, f ood, housewares, automobile parts, jewelry, metal, 
lumber products, and beverage manufacturing plan  to hire new employees and expand operations 
in the near future. In contrast, a firm that ma nufactures aircraft parts announced plans to lay off 
workers in the District.  
Reports of planned activity in the District’s  service sector have been mixed since our 
previous report. Firms in social and legal servic es reported plans for new hiring and expansion in 
the District. In contrast, firms in religious, information technology, business support, healthcare 
distribution, data processing, prin t and publishing, and transportati on services reported plans to 
lay-off employees. Reports from retail contac ts showed increases in sales and new store 
 VIII-2 
openings. Sales reports from auto dealers have ge nerally been positive, a nd a number of contacts 
in the District announced plans to  open new dealership locations. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of th e Eighth District on a year-
over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, February 2013 year-to-date home sales 
were up 12 percent in Louisvil le, 14 percent in Little Rock, 4 percent in Memphis, and 11 
percent in St. Louis. February 2013 year-to-date  single-family housing pe rmits increased in the 
majority of the District metro areas compared w ith the same period in 20 12. Permits increased 16 
percent in Memphis and 36 percent in St. Louis. In  contrast, permits decreased 8 percent in Little 
Rock and remained unchanged in L ouisville over the same period. 
Commercial and industrial real estate mark et conditions have co ntinued to improve 
throughout most of the District. A contact in northeast Arkansas reported th at commercial real 
estate activity was strong in the Jonesboro and Pa ragould area but remained flat in other areas. 
Contacts in Louisville noted that vacancy ra tes of commercial and industrial properties 
improved. A contact in central Arkansas reported an  increase of commercial  real estate activity 
in Little Rock, and a cont act in St. Louis reported strong offi ce leasing activity in the northwest 
and south portions of St. L ouis County. Commercial and indus trial construction activity is 
picking up throughout most of th e District. Contacts in south central Kentucky continued to 
report that commercial real estate constructi on was strong in the downt own Bowling Green area, 
while contacts in Louisville reported that industr ial real estate construction was strong in the 
Shepherdsville area. A contact in Arkans as also reported several ongoing commercial 
construction projects in sout hwest and west Little Rock. 
 VIII-3 
Banking and Finance 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks were virtually 
unchanged from mid-December 2012 to mid-Ma rch 2013. Real estate lending, which accounts 
for 72.8 percent of total loans,  increased 1.9 percent. Comm ercial and industrial loans, 
accounting for 15.1 percent of total loans, increased 3.9 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting 
for 4.7 percent of total loans we re largely unchanged. All other loans, accounting for 7.3 percent 
of total loans, decreased 14.1 percent. During the same period, total de posits at these banks 
increased 4.3 percent. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Farmers in the District’s states expect to plant more sorghum and soybeans in 2013 than 
was planted in 2012; they also anticipate plan ting less corn, cotton, and rice. Additionally, 
Arkansas and Mississippi farmers expect to sign ificantly increase corn acreage while reducing 
cotton and rice acreage. As of early April, over  90 percent of the Distri ct’s winter wheat crop 
was rated in fair or better c ondition, and over 60 percen t was rated as good to excellent. Year-to-
date coal production in the Distri ct’s states (excluding eastern Ke ntucky) at the end of February 
was 4.7 percent lower than the same period last y ear. Similarly, coal production for February was 
5.7 percent lower than February 2012. 
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy gr ew moderately. Increased acti vity was noted in consumer 
spending, tourism, professional services and manufacturing. Cons truction and real estate 
grew at a fast pace, the energy and agriculture  sectors were steady at high levels, while 
mining slowed. Labor markets tightened some what, and wage increases were moderate. 
Overall price increases were modest.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending increased moderately. Marc h sales at a Minneapolis-St. Paul area 
restaurant chain were up about 6 percent fr om a year ago; demand for catering services 
was very strong. Sales activity at a Montan a mall was level from a year earlier, but 
warmer weather was helping boost traffic ove r the past few weeks. Meanwhile, same-
store sales at a Minneapolis area mall were  down slightly, while cold, wintry weather 
during March reduced traffic le vels. A Minnesota auto dealer  noted a solid start to 2013, 
and is cautiously optimistic for a very good y ear. Truck sales were strong at dealerships 
in eastern North Dakota. 
The winter tourism season fi nished stronger than last year. Ample snow cover and 
cold temperatures kept wint er tourism active during Marc h in northern Minnesota and 
Wisconsin. A travel agency in Minnesota no ted that leisure travel to warm-weather 
destinations was softer than last year as  airfare was up from a year ago; however, 
bookings to Europe were higher.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction activity continued to increase at a very fast pace since the last 
report. The value of March commercial perm its in Billings, Mont., increased over 900 
percent from last year. In Sioux Falls, S.D., March permits were $14 million, up from 
nearly zero a year ago. A contact  at a Fargo, N.D., real esta te company noted that “the 
medical field is building like crazy.” Reside ntial construction increased rapidly from a 
year ago. The value of March residential build ing permits in Billings nearly doubled from 
last year, and the va lue of March permits in Sioux Falls was up over 63 percent from a 
year ago. In the Minneapolis-S t. Paul area, March residential permits were up 21 percent 
compared with March 2012. 
 Activity in commercial real estate ma rkets increased since the last report. A 
Minneapolis-St. Paul area commercial real es tate broker noted increased strength in the 
office and industrial markets. Minneapolis-St.  Paul office vacancy rates during the first 
IX-2 
quarter of 2013 were down 1.9 percentage poin ts from a year ago to 17.7 percent. A 
Fargo broker noted that recent activity has in creased a “fair” amount and that office 
vacancy is at 4.8 percent and warehouse vacancy is at 1.6 percent. Residential real estate 
market activity increased at a strong pace. Recent home sales were up 12 percent from 
the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis -St. Paul area; the i nventory of homes for 
sale was down 30 percent, and median sale pr ices rose 16 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, 
March home sales were up 5 per cent, inventory was down 18 pe rcent and the median sale 
price increased 6 percent rela tive to a year earlier.  
Services 
Activity at professional business services fi rms increased at a moderate pace since the 
last report. A home inspector noted an increase in business due to more homeowners who 
were considering selling. A Minnesota travel agency noted an increase in business travel 
compared with a year ago. A Minnesota frei ght trade group expects volumes and rates to 
increase this year. A financial institution noted  a significant increase in demand for loans.  
Manufacturing 
The District manufacturing s ector continued to grow sin ce the last report. A March 
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that 
manufacturing activity increased in Mi nnesota and the Dakotas. A Minnesota 
architectural glass producer announced a $30 million expansion at a plant. A transportation vehicle maker in Minnesota was expanding its facilities. A sawmill in 
Montana restarted production af ter sitting idle for more than four years. Meanwhile, a 
paper mill in Minnesota cut production.  Energy and mining 
Activity in the energy sector was steady at high levels, while mini ng slowed. Late-March 
oil and gas exploration decrea sed slightly in Montana and North Dakota from the last 
report, but production remained near record  levels. A $2.2 billion modernization of 
Minnesota’s electrical grid is  under way, with an estimated $1 billion to be spent this 
year. A diesel refinery broke ground in North Dakota, and a separate $400 million 
refinery that will break ground this year  was also announced. A copper-nickel mining 
development in the Upper Peninsula halte d construction in response to “economic 
headwinds” and volatility in metals markets.  An iron ore mine in the Upper Peninsula 
idled at the end of March. 
 
IX-3 
Agriculture 
The District agricultural sector remained in  strong condition head ing into the planting 
season, though persistent drought remained a threat. Early indications of planting 
intentions suggest District farmers plan to  increase corn, soybean and hay acreage this 
year, with a reduction in wheat acres. An agricultural cooperative announced $50 million 
in investments in the District , including a grain terminal in  North Dakota and a fertilizer 
depot in Minnesota. Prices received by farmers increased in March from a year earlier for 
wheat, corn, soybeans, hay, chicken, milk a nd eggs; prices decreased for cattle, hogs, 
turkeys and dry beans. 
Employment, Wages and Prices Labor markets tightened somewhat. A comp any recently announced plans to add 300 
information technology consultant jobs in South Dakota and North Dakota. A retailer 
recently announced plans to build a distribut ion center in Minnesota  that would create 
300 jobs. Businesses in eastern Montana not ed continued challenges attracting and 
retaining quality workers due to competition from the nearby oil-drilling region. A record 
number of companies participat ed in a job fair in eastern  South Dakota, reflecting the 
relatively high availability of jobs in the ar ea. However, a Minnesota food company laid 
off 125 workers. 
Overall wage increases were moderate. According to a rece nt St. Cloud (Minn.) 
Area Quarterly Business Report, 48 percen t of respondents expect to increase 
compensation over the next six months, while 49 percent expect no change. In last year’s 
survey, 42 percent expected to increase co mpensation, while 54 percent expected no 
change. A contract agreement was recently reached with a union representing janitors in 
Minnesota that would improve wa ges and health care coverage. 
Overall price increases were modest. Mi nnesota gasoline prices decreased about 
20 cents per gallon from late February to early  April. Some metals prices also decreased 
since the last report. Meanwhile, bank direct ors noted increases in health care insurance 
costs. Prices for framing lumber have incr eased steadily over the past couple months. 
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy expanded moderate ly in March, and expectations for future 
activity strengthened. District c ontacts reported stronger-than-e xpected consumer spending and 
anticipated additional gains this spring. Improvements in residential and commercial real estate market conditions exceeded typical seasonal trends with robust sales, higher prices and brisk 
construction activity. Although District manufact uring activity softened, factory managers 
projected a rebound in orders, pr oduction, and shipments. Bankers  reported stable loan demand, 
improving loan quality, and stronger deposits.  Persistent drought hindered winter crop 
development, while crop insurance payments less ened the demand for operating loans. District 
contacts expected oil drilling activity to stre ngthen as seasonal demand supports higher oil and 
gasoline prices. The prices of raw materials fo r manufacturing, construction and food services 
rose, with some pass-through to finished goods  prices. Though more companies anticipated 
hiring additional workers in the coming months , wage pressures remained subdued except for 
specialized positions at transportation, high- tech, energy and construction firms.    
Consumer Spending. Consumer spending was stronger th an expected in March and was 
expected to strengthen further in the coming mo nths. After falling during the last survey period, 
District retailers reported m odest, but stronger-than-expected  sales in March and positive 
expectations for future sales growth. Lower-priced items such as apparel and hardware sold well, 
while demand for higher-priced premium and cust om goods remained weak. Some store owners 
noted that the payroll tax increase and cold weather during March limited sales growth. Auto 
sales bounced back in March, and most dealers we re optimistic that sales would rise further 
during the next few months. Smalle r cars and used vehicles conti nued to sell well, while dealers 
reported slower demand for larger cars, trucks  and sport-utility vehi cles. Tourism contacts 
reported a rise in visitor counts compared to the last survey a nd expected a seasonal increase in 
tourism spending with warmer weat her. District hoteliers indicat ed that occupancy rates rose 
with a slight drop in average room rental rate s. Restaurant owners reported solid sales and 
slightly higher average check amounts.   
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activ ity rose sharply in March, 
and commercial real estate activity strengthene d. In addition to a seasonal rise in home sales 
during the spring, real estate agents comme nted that pent-up buyer demand, an improving 
 
 X-2  
economy and low interest rates were driving stro nger sales. Low- and mid-priced homes in good 
condition continued to sell quickl y, and some real estate contacts noted increased demand for 
investment properties. Brisk sales and lower home inventories spurred further home price 
increases. Residential mortgage le nders reported a jump in loan applications for home purchases, 
and some real estate contacts were concerned that  appraisals were not reflecting current market 
conditions amid rapid price increases. Housing star ts were up sharply from the previous survey, 
but some builders noted that a l ack of available sub-contractors could constrain construction in 
the coming months. Sales at construction supply  firms rose with increased building activity. 
Commercial real estate markets improved, and District contacts ex pected additional strength in 
coming months. New commercial construction edged up and was expected to gain momentum as 
vacancy rates trended down and rents moved highe r. Commercial sales activity and real estate 
prices rose well above year-ago le vels. Developers reported no ch ange in access to credit.   
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. After softening in March, District 
manufacturing activity was expected to re bound in the coming months, and sales at 
transportation and high-tech service firms improved during the survey period. District 
manufacturing activity remained slightly below year-ago levels driven by weaker durable goods 
production, particularly for machinery and fabric ated metal products. In contrast, non-durable 
goods production rose modestly with an uptick in food and chemical processing. After falling 
during the last survey period, the volume of new orders and ship ments stabilized in March and 
was expected to strengthen duri ng the next six months. Export or ders, however, remained weak. 
Looking ahead, more plant managers planned to add workers and increase  work hours to handle 
an expected rise in production. Some District factories and tran sportation firms were also making 
capital investments. Trucking traffic picked up, bu t qualified drivers were  still in short supply. 
Business activity at high-tech firms expanded furt her, and sales were expected to remain strong. 
Some high-tech companies reporte d difficulty finding software de velopers and experienced IT 
technicians.  
Banking.   In the recent survey period, bankers generally reported stable loan demand, 
improving loan quality, and stronger deposits. Ba nkers reported steady demand for commercial 
and industrial loans, residential and commercial real estate loans, and consumer installment 
loans. Although residential real estate loan demand increased fo r purchases, bankers noted fewer 
loans for home refinancing. Bankers reported that interest rates trended lower on commercial and 
 
 X-3  
industrial loans. A majority of bankers reported improved loan qua lity compared to a year ago, 
and they expected further improvements during th e next six months. Credit standards remained 
largely unchanged in all major loan categorie s, and respondents reported stronger deposit 
growth.  
Agriculture. Agricultural growing conditions remain ed poor in most of the District. 
March precipitation provided little relief to pe rsistent drought, and the winter wheat crop was 
still in fair to poor condition. Despite recent declin es, crop prices remained elevated due to short 
crop supplies, and District farmers did not plan  to significantly alter their current crop mix. 
Livestock operators continued to post losses with falling cattle  and hog prices and high feed 
costs. Pork exports remained weak, but beef expo rts edged up, partly due to less restricted trade 
with Japan. Operating loan demand remained soft  as crop insurance payments bolstered farm 
income. Farmland values rose further a nd were expected to stay elevated. 
Energy.  In the energy sector, District activity remained solid and was expected to 
strengthen slightly heading into summer. An ups wing in oil prices and an anticipated seasonal 
rise in demand kept the number of active oil rigs in the Distri ct above year-ago levels. Even 
though colder than usual temperatures reduced natural gas inventories and boosted prices, the 
effect was expected to be temporary and the num ber of active natural gas rigs in the District 
dipped during March. Looking ahead, some Distri ct contacts were concerned that permitting 
delays could constrain oil and gas explorati on. Wyoming’s coal production remained well below 
year-ago levels as more electricity was being generated from natural gas. District ethanol 
production held steady, but profit margins improved recently due to lower corn prices.     
Wages and Prices.  Wage pressures remained relati vely subdued during the survey 
period, raw materials prices climbed, and some fi nished goods prices rose. More firms indicated 
they would be adding staff in the coming months to handle an anticipated increase in business 
activity, but most were not planning to raise wa ges. However, some companies, particularly 
those recruiting workers with spec ialized skills such as engine ers, software developers, and 
commercial truck drivers, were increasing salaries . The cost of raw materials for manufacturing 
remained elevated, and some firms were raising finished goods prices. So me construction supply 
companies reported passing along higher prices for building materials, part icularly lumber, to 
customers. Retail prices edged up, and retailers expected prices to trend higher during the next 
few months. Restaurant owners planned further menu price increas es due to rising food costs.  
XI-1 
 
ELEVENTH  DISTRICT —DALLAS 
 
           The Eleventh District economy expanded at a slightly faster pace over the past six weeks than 
during the previous reporting period, when growth was moderate. Many manufacturing firms noted that 
activity increased since the last report. In the no nfinancial services sector, legal and accounting demand 
increased, although staffing firms reported sluggish de mand. Retail sales and auto sales were up. Robust 
housing demand led to price gains, and commercial re al estate activity remained strong. Lenders noted 
moderate growth in loan demand, and activity in the energy sector remained at high levels. Drought 
conditions remained prevalent in the agricultural sector. Reporting firm s said prices remained stable 
overall, and there were limited reports of wage pressure. Employment levels were steady to up. 
           Prices   Most responding firms said prices were stab le, although housing contacts said home prices 
increased at a fast pace, and cotton prices increased ac cording to agriculture contacts. Staffing firms noted 
no change in rates, and accounting firms said rates we re flat to slightly up. Food producers said selling 
prices were up since January but do not expect more increases going forward. One airline said ticket prices were up slightly . Retail prices and auto prices were steady. Financial services contacts said loan 
pricing was flat to down. Oil prices fell slightly, as the price of WTI averaged under $94 per barrel over 
the past six weeks. A late winter reduced natural gas inventories and pushed prices above $3.65. Gasoline 
and diesel prices increased since the last report. 
Labor Market    Employment held steady or increased at most responding firms. Food 
manufacturers and airlines said employment had in creased, and reports of scattered hiring came from 
some accounting and finance firms, retailers, auto  dealers and transportation manufacturers. Several 
contacts noted difficulty finding qualified people to fill  open positions, particularly in banking, auto sales 
and manufacturing. Staffing firms said the supply of labor was tight in the Houston energy sector. 
Wage pressures remained largely subdued, a lthough wage increases for experienced or top-
performing workers were reported in accounting, legal and financial services. Increased labor costs were 
also noted in energy services. 
Manufacturing    Construction-related manufacturers said demand was flat to up slightly. A 
lumber contact noted a seasonal increase in demand for th e first time in several years. A cement producer 
said demand remained strong, particularly for resi dential construction projects. Expectations among 
construction-related producers are for increases in demand, and contacts belie ve 2013 will be stronger 
than 2012. Fabricated metals producers reported a broad-based increase in demand over the reporting 
period. Demand reports from primar y metals manufacturers were mi xed and below year-ago levels.  
Reports on high tech orders were mixed acr oss customer groups. Semiconductor producers 
reported stronger demand from industrial users, su ch as automotive, but continued weak demand from 
XI-2 
 
communication device and personal computer manufacturers. Most contacts expect moderate 
improvement over the next three to six months. 
Demand for paper products fell over the reporting pe riod; contacts remained cautious in their 
outlooks but expect to see an increase in May or J une. Food contacts noted demand was much better than 
anticipated and was up from the last report and fro m a year ago. Respondents were making significant 
capital expenditures in anticipation of  further increases in activity.  
Transportation manufacturers noted a pickup in de mand. Sales of recreational vehicles increased 
after experiencing a seasonal slump during the last  reporting period. Demand for aviation equipment 
continued to rise due to a recent large project. Tran sportation manufacturing cont acts expect 2013 to be 
about the same or better than 2012. 
Petrochemicals producers said Gulf Coast chemi cal production was stronger than a year ago. 
Contacts noted refinery operating rates and margin s were up over the reporting period, partly due to 
normal seasonal trends. 
Retail Sales   Retail sales were up since the previous report and from a year ago, according to 
contacts. Texas continued to perform well, and accordi ng to one national retailer the rate of sales growth 
in Texas outperformed the nation during the reporting pe riod. Prices remained stable since the last report. 
Some contacts added employees in line with expandi ng operations. Outlooks for the quarter ranged from 
cautiously positive to good, and contacts expect steady growth for the remainder of the year. 
Automobile sales were strong and picked up sin ce the last report, partly due to seasonality. 
Inventories varied by manufacturer, but all contacts not ed inventories were slightly lower than desired. 
Selling prices held steady, as the market remained ve ry competitive. Head count was up slightly from a 
year ago, and hours worked were flat over the re porting period. Outlooks for the second quarter and the 
rest of the year were good. Uncertainty and increasi ng expenses are challenges that dealerships continue 
to face. 
Nonfinancial Services    Staffing firms said demand was flat or down since the last report. 
Responding placement firms noted activity in most sec tors was sluggish, with the exception of energy-
related activity in Houston and overall demand for residential cons truction workers. Outlooks were 
mixed, but better than earlier in the year. Accoun ting firms noted continued strong demand for their 
services. Demand for energy, audit, insurance, c onsulting work and transactions was robust, while 
demand for tax services remained flat. Outlooks were op timistic. Legal firms said growth in demand for 
their services was weaker than expect ed, with the exception of strong r eal-estate related activity. Outlooks 
were optimistic, with contacts expecting a pi ckup in activity over the next three months. 
Reports from transportation service firms were positive. Railroad contacts said volumes picked 
up since the last report. Petroleum shipments continue d to be strong, and contacts noted healthy volumes 
XI-3 
 
of some construction-related prod ucts, including lumber and wood a nd crushed stone. Intermodal cargo 
volumes increased slightly, and shipping companies said small parcel shipments grew strongly, propelled by retail trade. Air cargo volumes were flat during the reporting period as increases in domestic shipments 
were offset by declines in international shipments.  
Airline contacts said passenger demand increased slig htly since the last report, in part due to 
spring-break related travel. Contacts expect demand to strengthen in the summer months and the outlook 
is for slight improvement in 2013 over 2012.  
Construction and Real Estate   Texas home prices rose rapidly due to strong demand and very 
low inventories. Some builders were still finding financing difficult. Outlooks for the single-family 
housing sector were positive, but price gains are expect ed to slow later in the year as building activity 
picks up. Contacts said apartment demand remains strong, in part, thanks to strong job growth and migration. Commercial real estate contacts reported that gains in occupancy and rents may be slowing 
property sales as owning has become more profitable.  Most contacts noted banks were more aggressive 
with lending, and Texas office and warehouse markets were improving. 
Financial Services    Financial institutions reported br oad-based growth in loan demand. 
Consumer lending improved, with solid growth in mo rtgage and automobile lending activity. Commercial 
lending grew at a moderate pace, and energy-related activity remained strong in Houston, Austin, San 
Antonio and the Eagle Ford area. Commercial real es tate and home equity lending activity has started to 
bounce back from low levels, noted contacts. Non-perfo rming loans continued to decline. Loan pricing 
remained very competitive. Deposits and deposit ra tes remained mostly unchanged. Outlooks were 
optimistic, and contacts expect growth in loan demand  and deposits to continue in the near term.  
Energy    Energy activity was slightly improved, and r espondents at energy-related service firms 
seemed more confident that the number of active drilling rigs may have bottomed out. Margins for 
services, particularly pressure pumping, remained ti ght, and contacts reported little change in pricing 
pressures otherwise. Contacts said drilling activity w as flat over the reporting period and continue to 
expect improvement in the second half of the year, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Agriculture    Drought conditions worsened slightly across the District over the reporting period. 
Nearly half of the Texas wheat crop was in poor or  very poor condition, and spring crops were largely 
being planted into very dry soil. Texas feedlots con tinued to run negative margins, due in part to feed 
costs remaining elevated. Cotton was a bright spot, with continued strong demand and rising prices. 
 
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary 
Economic activity in the Twelfth District expa nded at a modest pace during the reporting period 
of late February through early April. Price increas es for most final goods and services were limited, and 
upward wage pressures were minimal overall.  Sales of many retail items rose, and most business and 
consumer services gained further. District manufactur ing activity appeared to increase on net. Production 
activity and sales grew for agricultural producers.  Demand for both homes and commercial real estate 
properties continued to expand on balance. Contact s from financial institutions reported increased loan 
demand.  
Prices and Wages  
 Price increases for most final goods and ser vices were limited. Reports were mixed for 
construction materials, with prices for some products such as cement, logs, and lumber edging up further; 
meanwhile, prices for some other metal and wood produc ts were mostly flat. Contacts from retail grocery 
and restaurant chain establishments reported largely constant food prices as the prices of some of the 
underlying commodities have stabilized. Health-care pr ice increases were limited, and fees for legal 
services held steady.  
Contacts reported that wage gains were contai ned across most occupations, industries, and 
regions in the District. Restrained hiring plans and ready worker availability have held down increases in 
wages and compensation for most sectors and regions.  A shortage of trained engineers continues to 
prompt vigorous employer competition and significant compensation gains for this group across a number 
of industries. In a few areas experiencing significant rebounds in housing market activity, wages of 
construction workers and experienced mortgage unde rwriters have risen. Contacts mentioned downward 
pressure on the wages for some low-skilled jobs a nd government employees. Most firms expect wage 
growth between 2% and 4% this year.  Retail Trade and Services 
 Retail sales rose on balance. New and used auto mobile sales remained at high levels. Among 
XII - 2 
computer and electronic products, sales of personal com puters remained weak rela tive to sales of mobile 
computing devices, including smart phones and tablets.  Demand for some gaming products and apparel 
picked up, with e-commerce sales growth for th ese items outpacing sales growth at traditional retail 
stores. Retail grocers reported soft sales, experien cing intensifying competition from discount and online 
retailers. Demand was steady for retail pet products.  
 Demand for most business and consumer services gained. Contacts expect more robust growth 
this year for various technology services, such as cloud computing and data processing, compared with 
modest gains at the end of last year. Food service providers reported strong sales on net, with some 
discount chains faring particularly well. Activity in th e District’s travel and tourism sector advanced, as 
visitor counts, expenditures, and occupancy rates c limbed in Hawaii; however, reports indicated weaker 
activity in Southern California in recent weeks. Cont acts in the health-care industry described plans to 
freeze hiring and scale back capital expenditures in response to the federal spending cuts. 
Manufacturing  
 District manufacturing activity appeared to step  up during the reporting period of late February 
through early April. Contrary to downbeat expect ations from earlier in the year arising from product 
release challenges, production activity for commercial aircraft and parts continued to grow robustly. 
Manufacturers in defense-related subsectors noted furloughs, layoffs, and plant closures at some production facilities. Reports indicated that inventories of semiconductors fell at the end of last year but 
remain roughly in line with current demand. Phar maceutical goods producers reported modest gains. 
Wood product manufacturers stated that demand grew fu rther, fueled both by recent rebounds in domestic 
residential construction activity an d demand from China. Demand for steel products used primarily in 
transportation infrastructure and nonresidential constr uction projects increased, although overall capacity 
utilization for steelmakers remained at a relatively low level. 
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  
 Agricultural producers noted increased sales and pr oduction activity. Demand for most crop and 
livestock products grew further. Agricultural prod ucers faced mostly stable or somewhat lower 
XII - 3 
petroleum-based fuel and natural gas costs. Suppli es of most raw materials were adequate. However, 
some contacts communicated concerns that volatile weather conditions and limited water availability in 
parts of the District could pass through to lower seaso nal hiring and reduced agricultural output in coming 
months. Reports indicated that electricity and natu ral gas sales remained strong for both households and 
businesses, and natural gas inventories declined a bit further. Real Estate and Construction 
 Activity in residential and commercial real est ate markets continued to gain momentum, with 
notable gains in selected locales. Home sales climbed further in most regions, and low inventory levels 
coupled with healthy demand supported stable or in creasing prices. Reports indicated that the pace of 
residential housing permit issuance increased significantly  in many regions throughout the District. Rental 
activity for both single-family and multifamily homes was strong, based on low vacancy rates and stable 
rental rates. Construction of multifamily residentia l projects expanded further. Commercial real estate 
development and
 leasing activity increased, particularly in major metropolitan areas across the District, 
fueled in large part by sustained growth in the technology sector.  
Financial Institutions 
 Contacts from financial institutions reported th at loan demand improved. Ramped-up mortgage 
and automobile lending continued to spur growth  in overall loan demand. Banking contacts again 
highlighted ample liquidity and generally sti ff competition among lenders for well-qualified business 
borrowers. Contacts also pointed to a recent buildup of privately held technology companies poised for 
public offerings. Despite the clear potential for action,  the pace of initial public offerings and new venture 
capital deals in the District’s Internet and digital me dia subsectors has been relatively slow. By contrast, 
private equity financing has shown steady growth  in recent months. Reports indicated modest 
improvement in credit quality for bo th business and consumer loans. 