    For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
    Wednesday     September 4, 2013 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
   
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
        
August 2013 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT 
  
August 2013 
 
 
  
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . i 
 First District - Boston  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I-1 
 Second District - New York  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  II-1 
 Third District - Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  III-1 
 
Fourth District - Cleveland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  IV-1 
 Fifth District - Richmond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   V-1 
 Sixth District - Atlanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1 
 Seventh District - Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  V II-1 
 Eighth District - St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VIII-1 
 Ninth District - Minneapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . I X-1 
 Tenth District - Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  X-1 
 Eleventh District - Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1 
 Twelfth District - San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XII- 1 
 
i 
 
Summary* 
 
 Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Dist ricts suggest that national economic activity 
continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace during the reporting pe riod of early July through late 
August.  Eight Districts characterized growth as mode rate; of the remaining four, Boston, Atlanta, and 
San Francisco reported modest growth, and Chica go indicated activity had improved.  Consumer 
spending rose in most Districts, reflecting, in pa rt, strong demand for automobiles and housing-related 
goods.  Activity in the travel and tourism sector expanded in most areas.  Demand for nonfinancial 
services, including professional and transportation servi ces, increased slightly on net.  Manufacturing 
activity expanded modestly.  Residential real estate ac tivity increased moderately in most Districts, and 
demand for nonresidential real estate gained overall.   Lending activity was mixed.  Lending standards 
were largely unchanged, while cred it quality improved.  Demand for agricultural products was strong 
during the reporting period, but growing conditions and production in some areas were somewhat weak as 
a consequence of extreme weather.  Demand for natu ral resource products was stable or up slightly, and 
extraction increased in anticipation of further demand growth.   
For most occupations and industries, hiring held steady or increased modestly relative to the prior 
reporting period.  Upward price pressures remained subdued, and prices increased slightly during the 
reporting period.  Wage pressures con tinued to be modest overall.   
 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
 Reports indicated that consumer spending rose in most Districts.  A few Districts mentioned that 
back-to-school sales contributed to overall consumer  spending growth.  Districts reported retail sales 
generally grew moderately in Boston, Kansas City, and Dallas; sales were mixed in New York; and sales 
grew more modestly in Philadelphia, Atlanta, Ch icago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco.  
Cleveland noted that sales came in below many retaile rs’ expectations, and Richmond indicated that sales 
revenues weakened.  Boston noted that consumer c onfidence improved, while New York reported that it 
retreated a bit.  According to reports from Boston, some retailers experienced robust demand gains, with 
“year-over-year comparable store sales increases betw een 4 and 5 percent.”  Many Districts noted strong 
demand for home furnishing and home improvement items.  However, reports from several Districts 
indicated that consumers remained cautious in thei r purchases and highly price-sensitive.  For example, 
                                                            
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Franci sco and based on information collected on or before 
August 26, 2013.  This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts 
outside the Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
ii 
 
Philadelphia observed that consumers engaged in “p rice-shopping,” as “sales of children’s apparel were 
stronger at outlets than at traditional malls.”   
Attractive financing conditions and pent-up demand supported a robust pace of automobile sales 
in most Districts.  New York noted that sales of  high-end brands were especially robust.  Richmond 
reported that one dealership had its best sales month ever, and sales at another dealership doubled relative 
to twelve months earlier.  Used vehicle sales were strong in Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco but 
a bit soft in New York.  New car inventories rose or  remained high in Cleveland and San Francisco, but 
dealers were generally satisfied with their invent ory positions; by contrast, Minneapolis reported sales 
were constrained at some dealerships due to a lack  of inventory.  Reports from dealerships across the 
nation were optimistic about demand grow th for new and used automobiles fo r the remainder of the year.    
Many Districts pointed to solid gains or high leve ls of travel and tourist activity, with pickups 
evident in both the business and leisure segments.  Travel and tourism activity expanded overall in the 
Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts.  Relative to the same 
period a year earlier, Richmond and Minneapolis re ported that the number of camping permits and 
visitors at state and national parks in their Distri cts increased substantially.  New York reported that 
business at Broadway theaters picked up since the pr evious reporting period, bu t Boston highlighted low 
attendance at some museums.  New York and Kan sas City both reported that some hotels experienced 
slightly lower occupancy rates, which may be a result of cutbacks in government travel.  A few Districts 
indicated that business travel activity had also expanded.   
 
Nonfinancial Services 
 Demand for nonfinancial services improved modes tly overall since the previous Beige Book.  
Adjusting for seasonal fluctuations, providers of various professional and business services such as accounting, consulting, information, transportation,  and legal services generally  expanded their activities 
according to reports from Philadelphia, Richmond, St . Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas.  Providers of 
staffing services in the Boston and New York Distri cts reported improved business conditions.  Several 
Districts noted increased demand at restaurants, a lthough San Francisco was an exception, with reports 
from parts of the District indicating that demand had eased.  Health-care organizations in the Richmond, St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts reported soft demand for various health-care services.  Boston noted that sales of technology services to businesses and consumers were a bit weaker than expected, and 
reports from St. Louis indicated that some informat ion technology firms may downsize their workforces.  
Cleveland indicated that ground cargo volumes were strong; Dallas reported an increase in railroad volumes but a decline in small parcel volumes; and Atlanta observed a decrease in overall trucking 
iii 
 
volumes.  Both Cleveland and Atlanta noted a shor t supply of truck drivers as a consequence of new 
hours-of-service regulations.  Air freight tonnage ra n slightly above year-ago levels for the Atlanta 
District but was unchanged over the past six weeks for Dallas.   
 
Manufacturing  
 Manufacturing activity expanded modestly duri ng the reporting period.  Kansas City noted a 
slight contraction in the previous reporting period but indicated that manufacturing activity had expanded 
moderately in recent weeks.  Cleveland and Minnea polis also reported a mode rate expansion, although 
Minneapolis specified that the pace of growth was une ven across District states.  Atlanta noted a decrease 
in the pace of growth as indicated by modest decreases in new orders and production.  Several Districts, 
including Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chica go, Kansas City, and San Francisco, expressed that 
demand for inputs related to autos, housing, and infrast ructure were strong.  Chicago highlighted the auto 
industry as a main source of strength for that District’s overall manufacturing sector, and contacts there 
expect demand for heavy and medium trucks to ratchet up further and to support growth in overall 
manufacturing for the remainder of the year.  By contr ast, Cleveland was the only District to report that 
auto production activity d eclined, although reports specified th at it was a normal seasonal pattern and 
sales were up relative to twelve months earlier.  In  the Richmond District, a lumber company purchased 
new equipment to expand its production; and in Chicago, demand for construction equipment and 
materials continued to strengthen.  Philadelphia reported some increased demand related to ongoing 
repairs of infrastructure damaged during Superstorm  Sandy last year.  Reports from San Francisco 
indicated that shipments of steel products used in nonresidential construction continued to increase, and 
reports from Chicago indicated that steel output grew at a moderate pace.  Boston and San Francisco 
noted increased demand for semiconductors.  High-tech manufacturing firms in the Dallas District noted 
that demand was stable, and, while Kansas City Dist rict firms reported that sales dipped, contacts there 
expect sales to bounce back in the next three months .  In general, contacts in most Districts expressed 
optimism about a near-term pickup in overall manufactu ring activity.  Production in the defense industry 
was mixed across Districts.  Contacts in the Boston District reported minimal direct effects of the federal sequestration, although they were conc erned about the prospect of larger effects in the fourth quarter.  On 
the other hand, defense firms in the Kansas City and San Francisco Districts reported that the effects of 
the sequestration have already been passed th rough to actual reductions in production.   
 
  
iv 
 
Real Estate and Construction  
Activity in residential real estate markets increas ed moderately.  The pace of sales of existing 
single-family homes continued to increase moderately in most Districts.  Sales activity in New York 
City’s co-op and condominium market was describe d as unusually strong in July and August, and the 
Cleveland District reported that year-to-date sales of existing single-family homes were up substantially 
relative to the same period last year.  Reports from se veral Districts suggested that rising home prices and 
mortgage interest rates may have spurred a pickup in  recent market activity, as many “fence sitters” were 
prompted to commit to purchases.  Sales of new single-family homes stabilized during the past few 
months in the Cleveland District after accelerating earlier in the year.  New home sales declined slightly 
in parts of the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts in July.  Philadelphia conveyed that some borrowers apparently preferred to lock in a mortgage rate for an existing home rather than wait for a new home to be 
completed and chance higher mortgage rates.  Home prices climbed in most Districts.  Richmond and 
Boston reported that houses in some areas were staying on the market fewer days and increasingly 
receiving multiple offers.  New York noted that bi dding wars were common in the Buffalo area.  Many 
Districts reported that limited inventories of desira ble properties contributed to upward price pressures.  
Single-family home construction was strong in the Minneapolis and Dallas Districts, and Chicago 
reported that a number of builders are planning new de velopments to begin later this year.  However, 
several Districts noted constraints on the construction of single-family homes.  San Francisco pointed to 
shortages of construction workers.  In the Kansas City  District, some building materials, such as drywall 
and roofing shingles, were in short supply.   
Demand for nonresidential real estate increased.  Office vacancy rates and other indicators in 
markets for office space improved modestly in the major metropolitan markets in the New York, 
Richmond, and St. Louis and Districts.  Rents for Cl ass B office space in Manhattan have risen more than 
10 percent over the past twelve months.  Demand for commercial real estate showed strong growth in the 
Dallas District and moderate growth in the Minneapolis District.  Both Districts reported new plans for 
construction of industrial space.  Philadelphia, Clev eland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco reported modest growth in demand for co mmercial real estate.  Philadelphia highlighted a 
shift in recent leasing activity toward larger commerc ial spaces.  The Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts a ll reported increases in construction of multifamily 
residential properties.     
 
  
v 
 
Banking and Finance  
Lending activity weakened a bit, and several Dist ricts reported less-favorable conditions than in 
the preceding reporting period.  Most Districts indicated  no better than modest growth.  Loan growth in 
the Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts was slower than in the previous reporting 
period.  Kansas City reported a decline in lending, reve rsing slight growth earlier in the summer.  Several 
Districts characterized business lending as largely flat.  Chicago reported that recent interest rate increases 
likely were depressing commercial investment.  However,  Kansas City noted that expectations for better 
economic conditions and stronger profit growth had o ffset any effects of rate increases on business loan 
demand.  Demand for mortgage refinance loans declin ed in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and 
Richmond Districts.  By contrast, purchase mortgage  lending continued to grow  moderately in most 
Districts, although San Francisco noted that applications have dropped a bit in some areas of that District.  In the Atlanta District, increases in home values gene rated a surge in second mortgages, and Philadelphia 
and Cleveland reported modest increases in demand for home equity lines of credit.   
Lending standards were largely unchanged, while  credit quality improved.  Reports indicated 
little change in standards across all lending categories.   However, a few Districts commented that stiff 
competition for high-quality commercial borrowers w as eroding loan volumes at banks that maintained 
prudent interest rates and terms.  New York reporte d widespread declines in delinquency rates, especially 
for consumer loans and home mortgages, while Phila delphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City all 
reported general improvement in loan quality.   
 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Demand for agricultural products expanded duri ng the reporting period, although production 
activity was limited by extreme weather in some area s.  Droughts or dry weather in the Chicago, Kansas 
City, and Dallas Districts constrained farming activit y, but some growing areas within the Chicago and 
Dallas Districts were relieved by much-needed rainfa ll.  By contrast, extremely wet conditions led to 
delayed planting and reduced yields for some crops in  the Richmond and Atlanta Districts.  Kansas City 
noted that wheat production was below average and co rn crops were threatened by disease, and Atlanta 
and Dallas indicated that the cotton crop was smaller th an anticipated.  Chicago noted that, despite the dry 
weather, corn and soybean crops were in better cond ition than they were during the drought last year.  
Meanwhile, the St. Louis District anticipates robust produc tion activity, with corn crop yields expected to 
increase substantially over last year.  San Francisco noted that demand was generally strong for most crop 
and livestock products, and Atlanta found that pou ltry farming and fruit production were robust.   
vi 
 
For producers of natural resource products, demand was mostly steady, while production and 
extraction activity rose.  San Francisco reported a mo dest decline in demand for some oil products, and 
Dallas reported stable drilling activity at a high level.  Contacts in San Francisco and Dallas expect near- 
to medium-term oil-related sales and production activity to pick up; contacts in Dallas and Atlanta expect 
drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico to increase as demand continued to grow.  Richmond and Kansas 
City reported that the number of natural gas ri gs increased, but coal production in the Cleveland, 
Richmond, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts was below year-ago levels.  Minneapolis reported 
upgrades to a nuclear power plant and development of oil sands production facilities, and Cleveland noted 
that unconventional drill ing activity increased.  Mi ning activity was flat in the Minneapolis and 
Richmond Districts.    
Employment, Wages, and Prices 
For most industries and occupations, hiring held steady or increased somewhat in most Districts.  
Hiring in manufacturing rose modestly.  St. Louis reported increases in employment at a variety of manufacturing firms connected to the auto indust ry or the home construction industry.  Boston, 
Richmond, and Minneapolis reported shortages of so me types of skilled manufacturing workers.  Hiring 
increased for selected services occupations.  Increases  in demand for information technology workers 
were widespread.  Hiring increased for workers in ac counting and health services occupations in several 
Districts.  Retail employment gains were limited.  Atlanta reported slight employment increases in 
Georgia and Florida, and Dallas reported gains in oil and gas producing areas.  Cleveland noted that retail 
employment increases were limited to new stores.   Boston and Richmond reported that temporary 
workers are increasingly being offered permanent employ ment.  A health-care staffing firm in the Boston 
District reported a 30 percent increase in permanent placeme nts this year.  Similarly, a staffing firm in the 
Dallas District reported “near-record” levels of direct  hiring by health-care and engineering clients.   
Wage pressures remained modest overall.  The Bost on, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, 
and San Francisco Districts reported that wage pr essures were largely subdued.  Cleveland and Dallas 
highlighted that, overall, wage pressures at homebu ilding and other construc tion-related firms were 
contained.  New York reported that some firms have  become increasingly willing to negotiate salaries, 
although pay rates have not escalated significantly.  Reports from a few Districts highlighted significant labor supply constraints and, in some cases, large compensation increases for wo rkers with specialized 
skills in selected sectors, including the construction and high-technology sectors in Atlanta and Kansas 
City and the engineering sector in Dallas.  Kansas City also reported that some firms in the retail, leisure, 
and hospitality industries were beginning to raise wag es to attract salespeople, housekeepers, maintenance 
vii 
 
staff, and clerical staff.  Increases in the costs of employee health benefits continued to put upward 
pressure on overall compensation costs, although Minneapolis  indicated that growth in the price of health-
care has slowed.   
Upward price pressures were subdued, and pr ice increases were limited during the reporting 
period.  Reports from many Districts indicated modest growth, no change, or slight decreases in overall commodity and input prices.  In a few Districts, pr ices of some construction inputs in short supply 
increased, including lumber, drywall, concrete, and roofing shingles.  Ho wever, Cleveland noted that the 
rate of increase for construction input prices slowed, a nd lumber prices in the Chicago District declined.  
Dallas reported that law firms had reduced their billing rates slightly.  Atlanta and Chicago reported that 
firms have limited pricing power in general.  Simila rly, food costs continued to increase in the Kansas 
City District, but most restaurant owners did not increase menu prices.  However, Richmond reported that several construction-related businesses said that they  were able to pass along rising input prices.   
 
 I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
 
Economic activity in the First District continued to expand at a modest pace.   Most contacts reported 
low-to-moderate single digit year-on-year growth rates.   Higher interest rates a ppear to have different 
effects on commercial real estate where some contacts reported upward pressure on capitalization rates 
and residential real estate where contacts report that the prospect of rising rates “nudged” buyers into the market, increasing demand.  No firms report major cyclical layoffs but hiring remains subdued except 
among fast-growing technology firms.   Sequestration h as yet to have had any direct effect on contacts 
with major government businesses but contacts anticip ate weakness in the future. Contacts did not 
complain of higher input prices and did not report th at they were raising prices significantly either. 
Retail and Tourism 
Most contacts report year-over-year compar able store sales increases between 4 and 5 
percent. Demand remains quite strong for all apparel, home furnishing, and home improvement 
categories, as well as technology pr oducts like tablet computers.  Contacts indicate that prices 
remain steady, and feel that consumer sentiment continues to improve. There is some cautious optimism that this more positive trend will continue but expecta tions for 2013 sales still center 
on modest single-digit increases.     Both business and leisure travel remain strong with leisure driven by both domestic and 
international visitors.  Attendance at some muse ums and other attractions is below expectations. 
While a contact noted that July and August are not heavy months for government-related travel, 
there is some concern that U.S. government tr avel budgets, cut 30 pe rcent because of the 
sequester, will start to have a negative impact on travel industry revenues later in the year. 
Manufacturing and Related Services 
          Three companies—a semiconductor industry s upplier, a medical device maker, and a 
fitness equipment manufacturer—r eported double-digit in creases in sales compared to the same 
period a year earlier, f our reported single-digit increases fr om the previous quarter and three 
companies reported declines. Some contacts report ed that sales in Europe were finally growing 
again. The majority of contacts report no change in  prices from the first quarter, either the input 
prices they face, or their own sale prices.  Employment growth  continues to be modest.  A 
rapidly growing medical device manufacturer reports incr easing headcount at a 15 percent 
 I - 2 
annualized rate but most firms are hiring only “sel ectively.”  One firm did report layoffs due to a 
repositioning of a formerly bricks and mort ar business as e-commerce.  Defense industry 
contacts reported little direct  effect of sequestration but con tinued to worry with one contact 
mentioning rumors that major cuts would come in  the fourth quarter. Contacts reported no major 
revisions of their investment plan s and most expect single-digit ye ar-on-year growth in the next 
quarter. 
Software and Information Technology Services 
         New England software and informa tion technology services cont acts generally report 
weaker than expected business activity throug h August, with slow revenue growth. Several 
attribute this sluggishness to co ntinued macroeconomic uncertainty  in the U.S. and Europe. In 
contrast, a contact which mainly works with health care firms attributes the slowdown to the 
expiration of federal stimulus funding for health records software; however , business in the post-
stimulus slump has been better than expected. A business advisory contact  sees early signs of 
improvement in the overall market, as evidenced by an uptick in Q2 sales activity in terms of 
customer expenditure. Four out of five contacts continue to be cautious in hiring,  and plan to 
remain close to their current headcounts th rough 2013.  Both selling prices and capital and 
technology spending have gone la rgely unchanged in recent months. Looking forward, New 
England software and IT firms are cautiously optimistic, with most expecting only modest 
growth through the second half of 2013. 
Staffing Services 
        New England staffing contacts genera lly report strengthened business conditions through 
August, characterized by mid-si ngle-digit year-on-year revenue growth. This continued growth 
reportedly reflects both an increase in overall la bor demand and a shift to more aggressive 
marketing strategies at the firm level. Genera lly, there is a high demand for skilled IT workers 
and engineers; contacts also report increased demand for manufacturers and medical assistants. 
On the supply side, there remains a shortage of skilled technical workers to fill high-end IT and 
engineering jobs. The general consensus is that despite a large pool of available workers, the 
skills mismatch prevents staffing firms from fully meeting client demand. The number of 
temporary-to-permanent placements continues to grow; a healthcare contact reports a 30 percent 
 I - 3 
increase in permanent placements this year. Bill  rates and pay rates are largely unchanged, with 
the exception of one firm reporting a decrease re lative to May due to the current client mix. 
Looking forward, staffing contacts continue to be cautiously optimistic, expecting mid-single-
digit year-on-year revenue grow th through the remainder of 2013. 
Commercial Real Estate 
Contacts were mixed in their anal ysis of the effects of higher interest rates.  In Boston 
and Providence, contacts repor ted upward pressure on capitaliz ation rates noting that the 
frequency of renegotiation (or “re-trading”) of d eals in progress increased in recent weeks.  
Contacts in Hartford reported no effects so fa r of higher rates on demand for commercial real 
estate.  A regional lender to commercial real es tate continues to face challenges securing desired 
loan volume in the face of competition from othe r lenders willing to offer commercial mortgages 
at very low rates. Construction activity remained  robust in greater Bost on and the pipeline of 
deals yet to break ground increased significan tly over one year ago.  Current and planned 
construction projects in the Boston area are conc entrated in high-end multifamily and mixed-use 
(retail/residential) structures, although construction activity is poised to rise in the hospitality sector and among institutions of higher edu cation. Contacts continued to expect slow 
improvements in commercial real estate fundament als in the coming months , but roughly half of 
contacts raised the uncertainty around their projecti ons relative to last report, with much of the 
growing uncertainty linked to uncerta inty over long-term interest rates.
  
Residential Real Estate 
Throughout the First district, the market for single-family homes and condos continues to 
make a healthy recovery as sales and prices continued to increase and days-on-the-market 
continued to fall. According to contacts, increas es in the mortgage rates have nudged potential 
buyers, hoping to take advantage of low-interest rates, to enter the ma rket. In some areas, 
particularly in the Greater Boston area and Mass achusetts, realtors have  observed an increasing 
frequency of multiple offers being made on prope rties.  Despite shrinking inventory, sources 
state that modest appreciation in regions wher e multiple bids are common indicates that the 
market is not overheating.  
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
Economic growth in the Second District has continued at a moderate pace since the last 
report.  Contacts indicate that cost pressures rema in moderate, while selling prices continue to be 
steady to up slightly.  Labor market conditions have shown further signs of improvement, while wage increases have remained subdued.  Retailers report that sales picked up a bit in July and August and 
were on or close to plan; new automobile sales have strengthened since the last report.  Tourism 
activity has been mixed since the last report.  Commercial and especially residential real estate markets have shown signs of firming.  Finally, bankers report steady to somewhat softer loan 
demand, little change in credit standards, some leveling off in loan spreads, and widespread declines in delinquency rates.  
Consumer Spending  
Retailers report that sales were mixed but on or close to plan in July and early August.  A 
major retail chain reports that sales were on plan in  July and in early August, with New York City 
stores out-performing the rest of the region somewhat.  One major mall in upstate New York notes that sales have picked up in recent weeks, fo llowing a sluggish June when sales were hurt by 
inclement weather.  However, another upstate mall reports that sales are down slightly from a year 
ago, in part reflecting fewer Canadian shoppers.  Inventories are generally at or near desired levels.  Prices are generally described as stable, though a few contacts say there is significant discounting.   
Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales strengthened in 
July, running roughly 15 percent ahead of comparable 2012 levels; early indications are that sales in 
August have been similarly robust.  High end brands  are reported to be selling particularly well.  
Sales of used automobiles have been mixed but generally soft.  Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases continue to be characterized as favorable.  
 
 II-2 
Tourism activity has been mixed since the last report.  Hotels across parts of upstate New 
York have seen some decline in occupancy rates.  Business at Broadway theaters has picked up somewhat from mid-July to mid-August; attendance is  still down modestly from a year earlier but not 
by nearly as much as in June and early July.  Moreover, revenue was running ahead of comparable 2012 levels in July and the first part of August—the first such gain since March.  Finally, consumer 
confidence in the region has retreated slightly since the last report: both The Conference Board’s 
survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states  (NY, NJ, Pa) and Siena College’s survey of New 
York State residents show confidence declining modestly in July but running roughly on par with a year earlier.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Residential real estate markets in the District have strengthened since the last report.  
Buffalo-area contacts describe market conditions as very robust, as demand continues to outstrip supply.  Thus far, there has been little new construc tion, and the lack of inventory has pushed prices 
up.  Bidding wars are common for desirable properties.  Similarly, sales activity in New York City’s co-op and condo market has been unusually strong in July and August.  The inventory of available 
apartments for sale has declined further and is at new lows, except at the high end of the market.  
Prices have been rising only modestly in Manhattan, though in Brooklyn, prices are reported to be up by close to 10 percent over the past year.  Manhattan ’s rental market appears to be at a plateau: rents 
have leveled off and are up only marginally from a year ago.  Brooklyn rents, on the other hand are up 5-10 percent over the past year.  As in the sales market, the inventory of available rentals remains 
tight throughout New York City.   
An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that market conditions continue to 
improve gradually: sales activity has picked up somewhat and prices of existing homes are up roughly 2 percent from a year ago.  Multi-family construction activity has been robust but single- 
 II-3 
family construction remains sluggish; there continues to be little or no spec building.  A sizable 
inventory of distressed properties persists.  The New Jersey shore rental market has not yet recovered 
to 2012 levels; markets in communities hardest hit by Sandy remain particularly depressed. 
Commercial real estate markets across the Distri ct have been steady to slightly firmer since 
the last report.  Manhattan’s office vacancy rate remains little changed at a low level and is down 
modestly from a year ago; asking rents for Class A properties have been flat, whereas rents on Class 
B office space have been trending up and have risen more than 10 percent over the past year.  Office vacancy rates in Northern New Jersey, as well as in Westchester and Fairfield counties, have come down since the beginning of this year, though they remain elevated.  Long Island’s vacancy rate is steady at a low level.  Office markets in the Buff alo and Rochester areas have been stable, while 
Albany’s has been somewhat softer.   
Other Business Activity 
The labor market has shown signs of strengt hening.  One major employment agency notes 
that summer business has been unusually strong across the board—in terms of both industries and occupations.  Another major agency describes the improvement as more gradual.  Both these contacts 
report that people are finding jobs more quickly and that demand for IT workers has been particularly 
strong.  Companies are also described as increasingly negotiable on salary, though pay has yet to start escalating significantly.  
Manufacturing firms in the District report a pickup in employment levels, and a growing 
proportion of contacts plan to add workers in the months ahead.  More broadly, manufacturers report 
that business activity has continued to improve modestly since the last report, that input price 
pressures are steady and that selling prices are li ttle changed.  Non-manufacturing firms indicate that 
both business and hiring activity have been steady since the last report, though these contacts have become a bit more optimistic about the near term outlook and also in their hiring plans.  Service 
 II-4 
sector firms report that cost pressures remain somewhat widespread but are more subdued than 
earlier in the year. 
Financial Developments  
Small- to medium-sized banks in the District report a decrease in demand for residential 
mortgages but little change in demand for other types of loans.   Bankers report fairly widespread 
declines in refinancing demand—more so than at any time in the past three years.  Respondents 
indicate that credit standards are little changed across all loan categories.  Spreads of loan rates over costs of funds are reported to have narrowed, on balance, but to a lesser extent than has been the case for most of the past two years.  Finally, bankers  report widespread decreases in delinquency rates, 
particularly for consumer loans and residential mortgages.   
 
III - 1 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
Aggregate business activity in the Third Distri ct continued at a moderate pace of growth 
during this current Beige Book peri od. Moderate rates of growth continued for general services, 
existing home sales, and home construction. Homebuilders felt their sales may have been 
partially dampened by rising mortgage rates; however, construction remained well above its 
level of a year ago. Meanwhile, auto sales con tinued their strong rate of growth; growth of 
freight shipping was also strong. General retail sales, commercial  real estate leasing, staffing 
services, and tourism continued to expand at mo dest rates, while manufacturing and commercial 
real estate construction continue d to expand only slightly. Loan vol umes at Third District banks 
grew at a modest pace across most categories;  credit quality continue d to improve. Contacts 
reported slight increases overall for general price levels as well as for wages and home prices – 
similar to the last Beige Book period.  
An overall outlook for moderate growth ha s continued since the last Beige Book. 
Contacts expressed greater conf idence in the U.S. economy and in global conditions. However, 
firms remained cautious in their hiring and l ong-term capital expenditure  plans and expressed 
concern about a potential fiscal crisis  regarding the fede ral debt ceiling.  
 
Manufacturing.   Overall, Third District manufactu rers reported further increases in 
orders and shipments since the last Beige Book, although overall growth remained slight. Makers 
of food products, paper products, an d fabricated metals reported ga ins.  Producers of lumber and 
wood products, primary metals, electronic equipm ent, and instruments reported lower activity, 
much of it seasonal in nature. Reports were mixe d for makers of industrial machinery. Overall, 
firms continued to report strong demand from  auto- and residentia l constructio n-related 
businesses. Firms also reported some demand relate d to infrastructure repairs in response to 
Superstorm Sandy. Several firms reported difficu lties meeting demand because of insufficient 
physical capacity, an inability to train ne w workers quickly enough, and/or customers’ 
expectations of shorter delivery times. A large su pplier to a broad base of industry reported that 
business improved from early summer through earl y August, with larger  backlogs in key 
segments.  
Optimism has generally grown among Third District manufacturers that business 
conditions will improve over the next six months . A contact described U. S. manufacturing as 
“poised to grow” while citing signs  of improvement globally, partic ularly in Europe and China. 
Some capacity expansion appears to be under way, as infrastructure proj ects that were being 
intentionally delayed ar e now coming on stream. Though generall y positive, firms have lowered 
their expectations somewhat regarding hiring an d capital spending plans since the last Beige 
Book.  
III - 2 
Retail.   Third District retailers reported modest  growth overall sinc e the last Beige Book, 
though results were mixed between outlets and tradit ional malls. Contacts said sales were soft in 
July, possibly dampened by excessive heat, but be gan to pick up in August with more back-to-
school shopping. Sales of children’s apparel were stronger at outlets than  at traditional malls, 
indicating that consumers were doing more price-shopping. Mall re tailers were optimistic that 
sales would continue to pick up into the fall. 
Auto dealers continued to report strong sales growth in July and the beginning of August. 
Pickup truck sales have been st rong in the shore areas as rebu ilding efforts continue. Contacts 
cited healthier household balan ce sheets, pent-up demand, and at tractive leasing options as 
factors for strong sales. Dealers noted lean inventories as produc tion has generally kept in line 
with demand. Dealers remain very optimistic, alt hough their hiring continues to lag rising sales.  
 
Finance.   Overall, Third District financial firm s continued to report modest increases in 
total loan volume. The most notable difference from the last Beige Book period was the further 
reduction in mortgage refinanci ng in response to higher interest  rates. Contacts noted that 
demand for mortgages to purchase homes continue d to increase modestly, as did demand for 
home equity lines and commercial real estate and C&I loans. St ronger increases were noted for 
most types of consumer lending, although credit  card volumes fell off slightly. Contacts 
uniformly reported that small businesses remain  very cautious, doing little or no borrowing for 
expansion and needed infrastructure. Credit stan dards have changed little, according to most 
banking contacts. However, many expressed con cern about very tough competition on rates and 
terms – reflecting a “lack of reason,” according to  one banker. However, most bankers reported 
that business was good overall and the credit quality of their loan portfolios was healthier. They 
remained “cautiously optimistic.”  
 
Real Estate and Construction.   Homebuilders throughout most of the Third District  
remained moderately busy with  existing projects from spring sa les. However, several builders 
reported a dip in traffic and new sales contracts in July, with modest sa les growth resuming in 
early August. Higher interest rate s were partly blamed for the lu ll: Locking in a mortgage rate 
now for an existing home appeared preferable to getting a mortgage later when the new home is 
completed. Sales of existing homes continued to gr ow at a moderate pace into August, according 
to residential brokers. A broker in the greater Ph iladelphia area describe d sales growth as “good 
steady improvement, not soaring.” Sales closed and sales pending grew by double digits (year 
over year) in some of the larger metropolitan areas in the Third District and by nearly double 
digits in a few others. The estimated months of  supply of homes has risen since May in several 
areas, described as a seasonal trend rather than evidence that the shadow inventory of homes is 
emerging.  
III - 3 
Nonresidential real estate cont acts continued to report little ch ange in the modest pace of 
overall leasing activity and slight  growth of construction. Howeve r, architecture and engineering 
firms were seeing greater intere st and increased workflow, whic h are expected to generate 
construction activity in the future. Meanwhile, gene ral contractors reported that activity was very 
slow, with heavy competitive bidding on each project. New and ongoing projects continued to be 
heavily represented by industrial structures, instit utional facilities, multif amily residential units, 
and public utilities. Market anal ysts observed a shift in recent leasing activity by large users of 
commercial space away from a contraction in sq uare footage to some expansion. In addition, 
some companies are opening branches in the Philadelphia area market. Contacts remained 
generally optimistic for slow, steady growth.  
 
Services.   Third District service-sector firms continued to report a moderate pace of 
growth overall. After a slow start to the summer , traffic counts, bookings, and boardwalk sales at 
shore destinations in Delaware and southern New Jersey picked up to a modest pace. A Delaware 
hotel group reported that its properties matched or  exceeded last year’s record; another hotel 
reported that July was its best month ever. Howeve r, those parts of central New Jersey hardest hit 
by Hurricane Sandy continued to st ruggle, with low numbers of returning summer residents and 
tourists. Throughout the District, tourists continued to spend ca utiously. Atlantic City casino 
revenue continued its year s-long downward spiral. 
Other service firms reported continued mode rate growth, although some cited seasonal 
slowdowns for the summer. One staffing firm expl ained that its clients’  decision-makers are 
away for much of the summer. A large consumer  firm anticipates higher activity in September 
following a typical August lull. Freight shipme nts have grown robustly throughout the District, 
tied to the expansion of intermodal facilities al ong the I-81 and I-76 corr idors and to refinery 
activity along the Delaware River.  Overall, service-sector firms remained optimistic about future 
growth.  
 
Prices and Wages.   Overall, price levels continued to  increase slightly, similar to the 
previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported th at prices paid and pr ices received again 
increased modestly; the increases were even slight er this period than la st. Auto dealers reported 
no changes in pricing. A mall operator noted ap parel inflation in recent months. Builders 
continued to report land selling at a premium, rising land deve lopment costs, and difficulty 
finding qualified tradespersons. Most  real estate contacts reported  rising prices for lower-priced 
homes; price trends for higher-pri ced homes are closely tied to local market conditions. Recent 
safety regulations for truckers ar e expected to tighten capacity a nd spur higher prices this fall 
until more workers and new equipment are brought online. Generally, however, there are few 
wage pressures, according to most firms, including staffing companies.  
 
IV - 1 
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Business activity in the Fourth District expande d at a moderate pace since our last report.  
On balance, demand for manufactured products grew at a moderate rate.  Housing market 
activity has leveled out after a six-month peri od of strong growth; sales of new and existing 
homes were above year-ago levels. Nonresidential  builders experienced a rise in backlogs and 
the number of inquiries.  Retailers were disappoint ed with sales during June and July, while new 
motor vehicle purchases posted r obust gains on a year-over-year basi s.  Shale drilling picked up 
in regions rich in wet gas and was above year-ago levels.  Output at coal mines trended lower.  
Freight transport volume remained  strong.  Applications for business credit were flat, while 
consumer demand for credit rose slightly.  
Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors.  Staffing firm representatives reported that 
the number of job openings increased, with vacancies found primarily  in healthcare and 
manufacturing.  However, job placements were lowe r.  Wage pressures remain contained.  Input 
and finished goods prices saw little change, apar t from increases in construction materials and 
oil.   
Manufacturing.  Reports from  District factories indicate d that demand grew at a 
moderate pace during the past six weeks.  Companies seeing the st rongest activity were suppliers 
to the energy, housing, medical de vice, and transportation industrie s.  Defense contractors are 
still coping with uncertainty.  Compared to a year ago, manufacturing production levels are 
similar or higher.  Many of our contacts are op timistic and they expect that demand will rise 
during the next few months.  Steel producers and se rvice centers reported that shipping volumes 
were stable or fell below expect ed levels.  Some respondents con tinue to express concern about 
the quantity of steel imports a nd the negative impact it is ha ving on domestic producers.  The 
outlook by steel producers is uncertain.  As a resu lt, they have been reducing inventories.  
District auto production showed a substantial decline in July on a month-over-month basis, due 
to normal seasonal retooling for model changeover s.  Compared to a year ago, July production 
figures revealed a sizeable increase.       
We heard some reports about a need by motor vehicle parts suppliers and assembly plants 
to expand capacity in order to meet demand.  Ot her reports indicated th at small manufacturers 
have reduced capacity utilization rates and bypass ed growth opportunities because they were 
unable to hire skilled production workers.  A majority of our contacts anticipate increasing 
capital budgets in the upcoming fiscal year.  Raw material and finish ed goods prices were 
generally flat or trended lower, although produc ers acknowledged volatility in commodity prices.  
Steel producers who attempted to raise prices met with limited success.  Factories expanded 
payrolls at a modest pace.  Wa ge pressures are contained, tho ugh there is concern about rising 
health insurance premiums.  One executive commented that he sees downward pressure on 
domestic labor costs due to excess produc tion capacity off-shore.        
Real Estate.  Sales of new single-family homes have stabilized during th e past couple of 
months, when compared to the solid growth seen earlier in the year.  Builders characterized their 
sales as good, and most reported that they are hi gher than a year ago.  One builder commented 
IV - 2 
that he is concerned about a lot s hortage in the near term.  On-lin e traffic and inquiries are rising.  
New home contracts were found mostly in the mi d- to higher-price-point categories.  Demand 
for multifamily housing remains strong.  Builder s expressed confidence that demand for new 
homes will persist in the upcoming months, but they are apprehensive about rising interest rates 
and difficulties in obtaining cons truction loans.  They also belie ve that a rise in consumer 
confidence would bring additional first-time buyers into the mark et.  Selling prices of new 
homes across the District were up about 5 percent on average yea r-over-year due to rising costs 
and larger building footprints.  The number of existing single-family homes sold year-to-date is 
up substantially across many regions of the District, relative to a year earlie r.  Contract prices 
rose moderately.  In some regions, the supply of existing homes for sale is  a challenge, which is 
leading to higher prices.  
Nonresidential builders continued to s ee slowly improving business conditions.  
Although inquiries have picked up, uncertainty about interest rates and the economy led to 
hesitancy on the part of some customers.  B acklogs have grown substantially.  The strongest 
activity was on the industrial and manufacturing side.  The former is related to shale gas work 
and the conversion of coal-fired generators to natural gas.  Work in higher education has 
replaced government-sponsored projects as a major revenue source.  Multifamily housing, 
including senior living, was also  strong.  Our contacts were mo re optimistic about near-term 
growth prospects than they ha ve been in recent months.    
We heard many comments from homebuilder s about price increases for construction 
materials (lumber, drywall, and concrete), though the rate of increase has slowed during the past 
month.  Several builders reported that they plan  to retain their temporary summer workers 
through the fall season.  Hiring of permanent empl oyees (office and field) was modest.  Wage 
pressures are contained.  General contractors reported a shortage of qualified subcontractors.  On 
the residential side, requests for higher rates by subcontractors were met with mixed results.  
Commercial builders said their s ubcontractors are having difficulty obt aining operating capital.      
Consumer Spending.  Retailers were disappointed with th eir June and July sales.  They 
cited consumers being strapped fo r money and unseasonably cool w eather as factors that held 
down spending.  On a year-over-year basis, same-sto re revenues were fairly even or lower.  
Products in greater demand included core goods  such as food, back-to-school items, and 
furniture.  Looking ahead, fourth-quarter sales are expected to improve slightly when compared 
to those in the third quarter.  Inventories were characterized as a little  high, but manageable.  
Vendor and shelf prices held stea dy.  Capital expenditures were on pl an for the fiscal year, with 
no changes expected in the near term.  Hiring will be limited to st affing new stores.    
Sales of new motor vehicles increased at a robust pace during July, and year-to-date sales 
were running ahead of last year’s pace.  The numb er of new vehicles sold in July was moderately 
higher than in June.  Buyers prefer smaller, fu el-efficient vehicles.  One dealer commented that 
the unpredictability of gasoline pric es is a primary factor behind the sales of smaller cars.  New-
vehicle inventories are rising, but a majority of dealers said that  they are satisfied with their 
inventory positions.  Our contacts are optimistic  about sales for the remainder of the year.  
IV - 3 
Dealers pointed to pent-up cons umer demand, the availability of financing, and the option to 
lease as reasons for their optimism.  Dealer se rvice departments in th e eastern third of the 
District are especially busy due to the influx of work generated by shale gas activity.  Used-
vehicle purchases rose during the past six weeks.  Inventory is building as lease rollovers start to 
come in, which is putting some downward pressure on used-car prices.  Even with an increase in 
business, dealers are reluctant to hire a large number of employees.  For the few open positions, 
finding qualified applicants remains difficult.          
Banking.  Bankers reported that their industry is functioning in an environment of low 
interest rates, rising operating costs, and over-capacit y.  Net interest margins are showing signs 
of widening but remain below acceptable levels .  Demand for business credit is flat or up 
slightly, with no loan category or industry performing significantl y better than others.  Our 
contacts attribute this to firm s holding large cash reserves.  A fi nancial intermediary reported on 
a loosening in venture capital f unding and commented that a substant ial number of startups in the 
District are now contemplati ng an S-1 filing.  Consumer-cre dit demand improved slightly, 
especially for auto loans, credit cards, and home equity lines of credit.  Several bankers reported 
a slowing in residential mortgage activity. While  new-purchase mortgages are trending higher, 
refinancing has dropped off.  No changes were made to loan-app lication standards.  Delinquency 
rates declined slightly.  There were few reports about workforce reductions.      
Energy.  District coal production rema ins below year-ago levels, w ith the largest declines 
seen in eastern Kentucky.   Spot prices for steam-coal declined slightly, whereas metallurgical 
coal prices were flat.  Unconventional drilling pick ed up in regions rich in wet gas since our last 
report, and the number of drilling rigs is higher than  last year at this time.  However, in dry gas 
regions, drilling has declined duri ng the past 12 months due to th e low price for natural gas.  
Total output from gas wells was down slightl y, while oil production was stable.  Well-head 
prices for natural gas are flat to down, while  oil prices were up substantially.  Capital 
expenditures remain at targeted levels.  One driller commented that the low price for natural gas 
is affecting the value of his reserves, which he uses  as collateral for loans.  As a result, banks are 
increasingly reluctant to extend credit for drillin g new wells.  On balance, little change was seen 
in production equipment and material prices.  Labor costs are steady other than for rising 
healthcare insurance premiums.       
Freight Transportation.  Freight executives reported that shipping volume remains 
strong and they are seeing an improvement in net pr ofits.  Their outlook is cautiously optimistic.  
Freight haulers are still sorting through the effects of the hours-of -service regulations (HOS) that 
went into effect on July 1.  The primary concer n focuses on the availability of drivers and the 
ability of shipping companies to effectively sche dule those drivers.  Prices for equipment and 
maintenance items were stable.  Capital outlays were allocated more for equipment replacement 
than capacity expansion.  Some of our contacts have begun evaluating the us e of tractors that run 
on compressed natural gas (CNG).  Preliminary resu lts indicate that these trucks may be more 
suitable for short-haul situations due to infrastructure issues.  Th e industry is still experiencing a 
shortage of drivers, due in part to  HOS rules and a hi gh turnover rate.   
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND 
 
 Overview.  Economic conditions in the Fifth District improved moderately since our last report. 
Manufacturing shipments and orders rose, and cap ital spending increased. Retail weakened, with the 
exception of robust auto sales. Revenue growth w as strong among non-retail services firms and tourist 
destinations reported good attendance. In banking, lending activit y slowed somewhat under the pressure 
of higher interest rates. Residential real estate and construction activity varied, while commercial real 
estate and construction markets were little changed. Heavy rains in the Mid-Atlantic hindered harvests 
and raised concerns about crop damage.  In energy  markets, natural gas production increased sharply as 
more infrastructure came online; in contrast, coal mining declined. Conditions in District labor markets 
improved modestly. Growth in manufacturing prices fo r inputs and finished goods slowed; service sector 
price increases also slowed. Aver age wages rose in both sectors. 
Manufacturing . Manufacturing shipments and orders rose moderately, and reports of greater 
spending on plant and equipment increased. Producers of auto parts, plastics, and textiles were buying 
machinery. A lumber company executive said hi s business had purchased new equipment to increase 
production in response to higher order volume. Anothe r contact indicated that demand had picked up for 
mid-range and high-end cabinetry. In contrast, a fu rniture producer reported that all employees had to 
take unpaid time off in recent weeks, and a machin e parts manufacturer worried that he might have to 
begin layoffs by early autumn. According to our lat est manufacturing survey, growth slowed in prices of 
both raw materials and finished goods.  
Ports . District port contacts indicated that bulk and container shipments grew briskly in recent 
weeks. Agricultural products accounted for much of  the increase in exports, while auto-related products 
were a large share of the growth in imports. Coal  exports declined in recent weeks while remaining 
slightly up for the year. The ports’ peak season began in July, as retail imports allowed stores to stock up 
for the holidays. Port officials were monitoring deve lopments in the Middle E ast closely because the Suez 
Canal is a “vitally important artery” for shippers.  
Retail. Sales revenues weakened since our last report. Retail and wholesale suppliers of 
construction inputs gave mixed reports. A West Virg inia building materials wholesaler commented that 
his sales were flat and cautioned, “Contractors who normally have a six-month backlog of work are down to two months.”  Several grocers, convenience stores,  and pharmacies also reported flat sales, while sales 
at art and hobby shops and an electronics retailer d eclined. Auto sales were strong; a dealer in West 
Virginia remarked that his dealership had its best thirty days ever this summer and a dealer in the 
Washington, D.C. beltway area said his sales doubled co mpared to this time last year. He noted, however, 
that purchases were based on need, rather than discreti onary spending. Average retail price growth picked 
 V-2  
up slightly. In particular, a grocery wholesaler noted  gradual but steady increases in his cost of meat, 
poultry, and seafood. 
Services. Non-retail services firms reported generally robust growth in recent weeks. Among the 
categories noting stronger revenues were architectural services, IT, business law, advertising, and 
accounting. A financial services executive reported th at clients were becoming more aggressive with 
respect to the amount of risk they would assume while remaining “a little nervous under the surface.”  
Construction-related businesses such as contracting re ported more bidding op portunities and project 
starts; several also commented that they were able to pass along rising input prices. Healthcare 
organizations reported softer demand and many were  making cost reductions to help offset lower 
reimbursements, sequestration, and uncompensated ca re. Smaller hospitals continued to express concern 
about their viability under the Affordable Care Ac t, and the solution for some has been to pursue 
affiliation with a larger healthcare system. Growth in overall services prices slowed. 
Tourism representatives reported strong attendance at resort locations. Year-over-year National 
Park visits in the Washington, D.C. area increased . A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina 
indicated hotels bookings were up and rentals were good, albeit not quite “the banner year” people had 
expected. She noted that restaurants were generally  busy, although budget-conscious tourists were 
primarily frequenting “tapas and deck parties” instead of fine dining establishments. A resort executive in 
western Virginia reported that occupancy rose and reve nues increased by double digits over this time last 
year. He observed that “the family vacation seems to  be coming back.”  In central North Carolina, an 
hotelier reported that corporate bookings were up, while government stays fell. 
Finance. The pace of growth in District lending slowed somewhat as many bankers reported a 
drag from higher interest rates. On the business side, contacts generally indicated that any adverse impact 
from the modest increase in interest rates was being offset by expectations for better economic conditions 
and stronger profit growth. One banker flatly stated  that “CFOs understand that rates remain near 
historically low levels.” Small business loan volumes  increased modestly. A lender in the D.C. area noted 
that some small businesses that wanted to grow were  looking to do so through acquisitions. Most banks 
reported no changes in standards and terms for bus iness loans, although competition was reportedly 
testing lenders’ discipline. New residential mortgage  lending was said to be holding up, but virtually 
every banker said that refinancing had slowed. Over all, mortgage loan volumes were reported to be 
modestly lower. Demand for other types of household loans held fairly steady, and metrics of consumer 
credit quality displayed fewer signs of duress. 
Real Estate . Reports on residential real estate and cons truction activity were more varied since 
the last survey period. Several Realtors said that demand for owner-occupied homes remained firm and a 
dearth of quality inventory was leading to fewer days on the market, more multiple offers, and higher 
selling-to-asking price ratios. Some reports suggested that rising home prices and mortgage interest rates 
 V-3  
may have boosted demand in the near  term as many “fence sitters” were moved to make a decision. While 
homes remained affordable, one contact said that “t hey aren’t the screaming bargain they once were.” 
Residential construction activity increased at a slower  rate. A homebuilder who develops in the Carolinas 
reported that sales and traffic throug h models edged lower since our l ast report, although he could not 
determine if this was due to higher interest rates or  a typical summer lull. A build er in Northern Virginia 
noted a similar slowdown, but added that activity had picked up in early August as potential homebuyers adjusted to higher mortgage rates. He ex pected that strength to be sustained.  
Commercial real estate and construction markets we re little changed in recent weeks. Contacts in 
most areas reported that vacancy rates continued to decline modestly in office and industrial markets, 
while retail vacancies remained very low. There we re a few suggestions that rents were firming and 
several real estate professionals noted that landlords were offering fewer concessi ons to potential tenants. 
Given the rather steady improvement in vacancy ra tes, and lack of construction in recent years, 
respondents in many areas expected commercial c onstruction to pick up momentum in late 2013, 
particularly in the office and industrial markets. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources. Heavy rains in the Mid-Atlantic delayed the harvest of 
some grains and hay cutting, particularly in the lowlands of the Carolinas. According to one source, 
cotton, peanuts, and soybeans might be damaged by  the unusually high levels of precipitation. Another 
contact in South Carolina noted that some late crops c ould not be planted and root systems of plants in the 
ground have not developed well because  of the rain. He added that cotton and tobacco crops “do not look 
good at all.”  A number of contacts noted that corn pr ices had risen and were expected to remain high for 
some time. Prices of beef and pork were also up, according to sources. Poultry farming and fruit 
production were strong in recent weeks. Results of our  recent agricultural credit survey indicated that 
farmland values remained relatively consta nt since the beginning of this year. 
Natural gas production increased sharply as more infrastructure came online. An industry 
executive expected production and rig counts to continue  to rise. Another contact stated that demand for 
District coal had declined further since our last re port, idling some mines and resulting in large layoffs.  
Labor Markets.  Labor market conditions improved modes tly since our last report. Employment 
increased in most areas. Demand in creased for workers in financial services, accounting, IT, health 
services, and manufacturing. Reports of difficult y finding workers with the “correct” skills were 
widespread, and a West Virginia contact commented th at it was difficult to find people “at any price.” A 
Virginia executive noted that wo rkers went from temporary to permanent employment more frequently, 
while a source in North Carolina indicated that tempor ary assignments were lasting longer than they did a 
year ago. Our most recent survey results were gene rally consistent with other accounts: hiring increased 
somewhat at manufacturing and non-retail services es tablishments, while retail employment declined 
slightly. Average wages rose in the manufact uring and service sectors, including retail. 
VI-1 
 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  According to reports from Sixth Di strict contacts, economic conditions 
modestly improved from July to mid-August.  Most businesses noted a positive outlook for the 
remainder of the year. 
Merchants indicated a slight pickup in retail sales and automobile sales were strong.  The 
travel and tourism sector remained a bright spot ac ross much of the District.  Residential real estate 
continued to recover at a solid pace as sales and prices stayed ahead of  last year’s level.  However, 
low housing inventories were still restraining sales growth.  Comm ercial real estate contacts 
reported slight improvements in demand and constr uction activity.  Manufactur ers cited a decrease 
in new orders and production.  Bankers noticed very little pickup in loan ac tivity, overall.  District 
payrolls improved slightly.  Input cost increases were described as being relatively subdued by most 
firms. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  District retailers indicated that sales rose slightly from 
July to late-August.  Reports described consumers as remaining cost conscious.  Automotive dealers 
noted that year-end projections are being revise d up as truck sales strengthen mostly from 
contractors purchasing vehicles again.   
Hospitality contacts continued to witness strong travel and tourism activity this summer.  
Overall demand in the sector remained on the rise resulting in a pickup in hiring of both full-time 
and part-time workers, although the cruise industry reported a decrease in both domestic and 
international demand as a result of the recession in Eur ope and a slowing economy in China.  With 
the exception of cutbacks in travel in the government sector , the industry is forecasting steady 
growth for the remainder of the year.   
Real Estate and Construction.  District brokers continued to report that existing home 
sales and prices remained ahead of last year's leve l.  When polled about rising mortgage rates, some 
said business had improved as buyers moved to lock-i n rates.  However, nearly half of respondents 
also said that rising rates were having a negati ve impact on their busine ss by slowing buyer traffic, 
disqualifying some buyers, and forcing some to sh ift to lower price points .  Inventory shortages 
persisted and were seen as a major factor restrain ing sales.  Low inventory levels continued to put 
upward pressure on home prices in  many submarkets across the Dist rict.  Even so, the outlook for 
sales growth remained slightly positive, with th e majority of brokers an ticipating sales gains over 
the next several months. 
District homebuilders cited that new home sale s and construction were ahead of year earlier 
levels.  The majority of builders said that rising rates were not ha ving an impact on their business.  
VI-2 
 
Most builders reported that the availability of  development and construction financing remained 
below demand, new home inventories were below the y ear earlier level, and prices rose modestly.  
The outlook for new home sales and construc tion was positive, but the outlook for growth 
continued to moderate fro m earlier in the year.   
District commercial brokers noted that dema nd for space improved at a modest pace during 
the summer.  Construction activity was described as flat to slightly up from  earlier this year with 
apartment development dominating activity.  Brokers  reported that most markets still favored 
tenants; however, rate increases continued to be noted in select submarkets.  The outlook among 
District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with further improvements expected for the rest of the year.   
Manufacturing and Transportation.  While the majority of the region’s manufacturers 
cited expanding activity, the pace of  growth decreased from July to mid-August.  New orders and 
production experienced modest decreas es which contributed to the slow ing of activity.  However, a 
number of firms, especially those in the auto sector, continued to report solid demand for their 
products.  When asked about their outlook, one-third of regional purchasing managers expect higher 
production over the next th ree to six months.   
Regional railroad companies noted that total year-over-year volumes remained flat; 
however, growth was seen in shipments of petrol eum-related products, fore st products, nonferrous 
scrap metals, and metallurgical coal .  District ports cited robust act ivity in the movement of energy 
products as well as rubber and steel used in au tomobile production.  Reports were mixed for 
containerized cargo volumes.  Air cargo contacts stated that year-t o-date air freight tonnage rose 
slightly from a year ago with notab le increases in imports, while dec lines in exports were attributed 
to the recession in Europe and a slowing economy in  China.  District truc king companies reported a 
slowdown in year-over-year volumes.  The r ecent implementation of the “Hours of Service” 
regulation, which restricts drivi ng hours, and a short supply of new drivers were mentioned as 
limiting growth opportunities. 
Banking and Finance.  Banking contacts did not witness an y noticeable increase in overall 
lending as most borrowers had already taken advant age of lower rates.  However, the recent uptick 
in rates did motivate many businesses to move to lock-in rates through refinancing.  Some bankers 
also reported a pickup in loan volume for lending pr oducts such as second mortgages, credit cards, 
auto lending, and commercial lending.  A su rge in second mortgage requests was caused by 
increasing home values.  Qualif ying new business loans remained fairly scarce with many banks 
competing over the same few loans. 
VI-3 
 
Employment and Prices.  Since the last report, the region’s pace of payroll growth 
improved modestly.  Gains were seen in Georgia a nd Florida, as those stat es saw slight payroll 
increases in retail, leisure and hos pitality, and professional and busine ss services.  On balance, firms 
were hesitant in hiring new sta ff due to various uncertainties, w ith healthcare reform mentioned 
most frequently.  Similarly, in recent polls, contac ts expressed a clear pref erence for investing in 
capital expenditures to improve efficiencies and re duce costs rather than hi ring additional labor.   
Growth in input costs was muted for most businesses as price inflation for crude and 
intermediate materials remained relatively subdu ed.  According to our August Business Inflation 
Expectations survey, costs were up 1.7 percent from  the previous 12 months and were expected to 
rise to 2.0 percent in the year ahead.  Businesses continued to not e tight margins and very little 
pricing power.  Wage pressures were largely su bdued, except for industries where workers are in 
short supply, such as information technology and sp ecialized construction.  Wage increases in the 
2 to 3 percent range remained standard, with the distribution of increases weighted toward workers 
whose skills are in highest demand. 
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Energy refiners reported a pickup in activity, with 
more oil flowing into the region from the centr al U.S. and Canada.  Rail transport capacity 
expanded for crude oil and liquid feedstocks, with large off-loading and increased storage capacity 
occurring along the coast.  Contacts expect deep-water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico to continue to 
expand.   
Since the last report, most of the District received ample or, in some cases, excessive rain.  
These rains have resulted in pr oblems with pesticide efficacy, delayed planting, and damage or 
reduced yield for some crops.   On a year-over-year basis, prices paid to farmers were elevated for 
meat protein (beef, hogs, and broilers), corn for grain and cotton saw pric e reductions, and soybean 
prices remained unchanged.    
  
 
 VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  The pace of economic activity in the Seventh District improved in July and 
August, and contacts generally expected moderate  growth for the rest of the year. Growth in 
consumer and business spending picked up. Manufacturing production increased, as did 
construction. Credit conditions tightened some. Co st and wage pressures were modest. Abnormally 
dry weather hurt crop prospects in  many areas of the District, but  to a much lesser degree than 
during last year’s drought. 
Consumer spending . Growth in consumer spending pick ed up a bit in July and August. 
Non-auto retail sales increased modestly, with sa les of luxury and housing-related items such as 
furniture, appliances, plumbing-re lated hardware, and flooring impr oving. Compared with last year, 
retail contacts expected a slight  increase in back-to-school sales with a high level of promotional 
activity. Auto sales rose, and continued to outpace growth in non-auto retail sales. Dealers reported 
an increase in demand across all vehicle segments, but especially for fuel-efficient cars and light 
trucks. Used vehicle sales remained strong. Several dealers indicated that th ey expect leasing and 
sales activity to pick up further in the fall, boosted in part by s till-elevated replacement demand.  
Business spending.  Growth in business spending increased some in July and August. 
Contacts reported moderate investment in equipmen t and software and structures as well as a small 
increase in merger and acquisition activity. In contrast, inventory inve stment decreased, as 
manufacturing and retail contacts indicated a reluctance to increase inventories at the current pace 
of sales. Labor market conditions softened a bit.  The pace of hiring slowed, with some contacts 
noting layoffs in recent weeks. Manufacturers and re tailers, in particular, i ndicated that if they 
needed to add labor, they were more likely to boost hours or tem porary and part-time hiring than 
expand their existing full-time workforce. Nonethele ss, overall contacts reported an increase in their 
hiring plans for the remainder of the year. Demand  for skilled workers re mained relatively strong, 
particularly for finance, healthcare, e ngineering, accounting, and information technology 
occupations; and contacts again noted shortages of qualified truck drivers and workers in some 
skilled manufacturing a nd construction trades.  
Construction/real estate . Construction and real estate activity increased further in July and 
August. Demand for residential construction grew  steadily, as multifamily construction remained 
strong and single-family homebuilders reported an in crease in showroom tra ffic. New single-family 
construction remained concentrated in infill ar eas, but an industry contact noted a number of 
 
 VII-2 
homebuilders are planning new developments slated to begin later this year. In residential real estate 
markets, home sales, prices, and rents all continued to rise. Contacts speculat ed that recent increases 
in mortgage rates had stimulated home sales, as buyers attempted to make purchases before rates 
rose further. Several also noted that a limited supply of existing homes currently on the market had 
pushed home prices higher, and that  residential rents in some areas were now back above their pre-
recession peaks. Nonresidential construction grew at a more modest pace, again in large part 
reflecting the ongoing expansion of th e auto industry. Commercial re al estate conditions continued 
to improve, as rents rose slowly and vacancies fell. In particular, leasing activity for specialty food 
stores was noted to be strong.  
Manufacturing . Manufacturing production increased in  July and August. Steel output 
continued to grow at a modera te pace. In addition, specialty  metal manufacturers reported an 
increase in orders, particularly from the auto a nd aerospace industries. The auto industry continued 
to be a source of strength for District manufacturing. In additi on, a contact indicated that demand 
for heavy and medium-duty trucks is  likely to increase over the remainder of the year in anticipation 
of new emission standards in 2014. Demand for constr uction equipment, construction materials, and 
household appliances continued to  strengthen with the recovery in the housing market. However, 
overall demand for heavy equipment remained soft, hampered by weak export demand and a 
reduction in mining activity. 
Banking/finance . Credit conditions tightened some  over the reporting period. Several 
financial market participants e xpressed concern about the impact of changing perceptions regarding 
monetary policy on long-term Treas ury yields and equity markets.  Net corporate borrowing costs 
were up slightly as benchmark interest rates rose. Banking cont acts cited a modest reduction in 
overall business loan demand, but noted continue d steady growth for commercial and industrial 
loans in the middle market. Contacts involved with commercial real estate fi nance indicated that the 
recent rise in interest rates was likely depressing some commercial investment.  In contrast, 
consumer loan demand continued to increase, partic ularly for auto lending. Mortgage lending also 
rose, with new originations beginning to outpa ce refinancing activity for some banks.   
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures were modest in July and August. Contacts noted an increase in 
some commodity prices, such as those for metals like steel, copper, and al uminum. A few also cited 
higher energy costs, particularly fo r fuel and natural gas. In contra st, prices paid for some building 
products such as lumber moved lower. Retailers ag ain reported mostly sma ll increases in wholesale 
 
 VII-3 
prices; and, overall, pass-through to  downstream prices was limite d. Wage pressures were also 
modest, although many contacts again noted ri sing healthcare and othe r benefit costs.  
Agriculture .  Dry weather affected crop conditions in much of the District during the 
reporting period, lowering expectations  for crop yields. Soybeans especia lly needed rain in order to 
fill out pods. Some of Iowa once again faced dro ught conditions. Nonetheless, corn and soybean 
conditions remained much better than they were during the drought last year. There were even parts 
of the District that received adequate moisture and should have above norm al yields. Indeed, corn 
and soybean prices decreased on both spot and future s markets. There were also reports that less of 
this year’s harvest than usual was pre-sold. M ilk, hog and cattle prices declined from the prior 
reporting period, with livestock producer s benefiting from falling feed costs.  District milk 
production once again outpaced the levels of a year ago. 
 VIII-1 
 Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
The economy of the Eighth District has expanded at a moderate pace since the previous report. 
Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing a nd services have been positive. Reports of retail and 
auto sales over the past three months have also been  positive. Residential real estate market conditions 
have continued to improve, and co mmercial and industrial real estat e markets have also improved. 
Lending activity at a sample of large District banks  was little changed during the second quarter of 2013. 
Prices, wages, and employment levels over the past thr ee months have stayed the same or increased for a 
majority of contacts across the District. 
Consumer Spending 
Reports from retail contacts were generally pos itive. Two-thirds of contacts noted increases in 
sales over the past three months relative to the sa me period last year, while seventeen percent noted 
moderate decreases and the rest saw no changes. Half of retail contacts reported that sales levels met their 
expectations, and the other half reported that sales fell short of expectations. In addition, half of retail 
contacts reported an increase in the sales of low-end products relative to high -end products. The sales 
outlook for the next three months compared with th e same period last year was slightly pessimistic: 
About half of contacts expect sales to stay the sa me, twenty-five percent of contacts expect sales to 
increase slightly, and the remaining contact s expect sales to decrease moderately. 
Reports from auto dealers about sales over the p ast three months were generally positive. 
Seventy-five percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales relative to the same period last 
year, seventeen percent saw decreases, and the rest saw no changes. Similarly, seventy-three percent of 
contacts reported that sales met or exceeded their expectations. Two-thirds of car dealers reported an 
increase in used car sales relativ e to new car sales, and twenty-two percent reported the opposite. The 
sales outlook for the next three months relative to th e same period last year was optimistic: Half of 
contacts expect sales to increase, while twenty -one percent expect sales to decrease. 
 
 VIII-2 
 Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report. Several 
manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers,  expand operations, or open new facilities in the 
District, while a smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to reduce employment. Firms that 
manufacture appliances, food, outdoor equipment, au tomobile parts, refrigeration compressors, safety 
products, automobiles, roofing shingles, barges, a mmo, apparel, and watercra fts plan to hire new 
employees and expand operations in the District. In c ontrast, firms that manufacture plastic products and 
printing products reported plans to la y off workers in the District.  
Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector have also been positive since the 
previous report. Firms in health care benefit mana gement, logistics, pharmaceutical benefit management, 
information, transportation, and restaurant services re ported new hiring and expans ion plans. In contrast, 
firms in information technology, health care, and di sability benefit application services reported plans to 
reduce employment. Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year 
basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, July 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 19 percent in 
Louisville, 21 percent in Little Rock, 10 percent in Me mphis, and 9 percent in St. Louis. June 2013 year-
to-date single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the District metro areas compared with 
the same period in 2012. Permits in creased 15 percent in Louisville, 24 percent in Memphis, 3 percent in 
Little Rock, and 18 percent in St. Louis. 
Commercial and industrial real estate market c onditions have continued to improve moderately. 
Compared with the first quarter of 2013, the second quarter 2013 industrial vacancy rates declined in 
Louisville, Little Rock, Memphis, and St. Louis. Du ring the same period, downtown office vacancy rates 
decreased in Louisville, Little Rock, and St. Louis and increased in Memphis. A contact in Evansville 
reported new plans for speculative o ffice space, while a contact in Louisville reported new plans for 
 VIII-3 
  speculative industrial space. Contacts reported indust rial construction plans in southwest Missouri and 
several commercial construction plans in St. Louis. A contact in Little Rock noted a mixed-use 
commercial project, while another contact noted an industrial factory expansion in Baxter County.  
Banking and Finance 
A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks found little change in overall 
lending activity during the second quarter of 2013. During this period, the credit standards for commercial 
and industrial loans remained mostly unchanged,  while demand ranged from unchanged to moderately 
stronger. Credit standards for commercial real estat e loans ranged from basically unchanged to eased 
somewhat, while demand was moderately stronger. Cred it standards for prime residential mortgage loans 
remained unchanged, while demand was moderately st ronger. Meanwhile, credit standards for auto loans 
were mostly unchanged, while de mand ranged from moderately weak er to moderately stronger. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Farmers in the District expect that the corn crop in 2013 will produce, on average, 59 percent 
more corn than last year. In contrast, the District co tton crop is expected to fall  short of 2012 levels both 
in terms of acres harvested and production. Across the District states, 92 percent of the corn crop was 
rated in fair or better condition; the sorghum and soyb ean crops were similarly rated, with 93 percent and 
91 percent in fair or better condition, respectiv ely. District coal production improved modestly. 
Prices, Wages, and Employment  
Fifty-eight percent of contacts indicated that pr ices charged to consumers over the past three 
months have stayed the same, while 35 percent indicat ed that prices have incr eased relative to the same 
period last year. In turn, 36 percent of contacts noted  that wages over the past three months have stayed 
the same, while 64 percent noted that wages have increased. Meanwhile, 39 percent of contacts reported 
that employment levels have remained the same over the past three months, while 42 percent reported that 
employment levels have increased, compared with the same period last year. 
IX-1 
 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy grew at a mode rate pace since the last report. Increased 
activity was noted in consumer spending, touris m, residential and co mmercial real estate 
and construction, manufacturing, energy and agricu lture. Growth in residential real estate 
and construction has slowed so mewhat, but is still strong. Th e mining sector was flat, and 
professional services were mixed. Hiring announcements were more prevalent than layoff 
announcements since the last report. Wage increases were moderate. Prices were 
relatively level since the last report . 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending increased modestly. A Montana mall manager reported that sales 
increased about 5 percent in June and July from  a year earlier. Recent same-store sales at 
a Minnesota-based retailer were  up slightly compared with la st year. In the Minneapolis 
area, a mall manager noted that summer tra ffic and sales increased slightly compared 
with a year ago, while another mall reported mo dest decreases in traffic and increases in 
sales. Truck and car sales dur ing the summer were genera lly higher at a number of 
dealerships in Montana, according to an auto dealers association; some dealerships noted 
that sales were constrained due  to a lack of inventory.  
Tourism increased from a year ago. Summ er tourism activity was strong after a 
slow start in northern Wisconsin, accordi ng to a representative of a chamber of 
commerce. The number of visitors to Glacier  National Park in M ontana increased more 
than 5 percent compared with a year ago. Tourism activity was so lid in southwestern 
Montana. Camping permits and revenue at stat e parks in South Dakota were up from last 
year. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction activity  continued to grow since th e last report. A commercial 
real estate research firm noted an increase in planned construction of industrial and 
medical office space in the Minneapolis-St. Pa ul area. The value of July hotel building 
permits in Billings, Mont., increased signifi cantly from last year. However, in Sioux 
Falls, S.D., the value of July commercial permits was down from a year ago. Growth has 
slowed somewhat but is still strong in resi dential construction. In the Minneapolis-St. 
Paul area, the value of residential permits in  July was up by 25 percent from July of 2012. 
The value of July single-family residential building permits in Billings was up 24 percent 
IX-2 
 from last year; multifamily bui lding increased by $23 million. However, the value of July 
residential building permits in  Sioux Falls fell from 2012.  
 Activity in commercial real estate ma rkets increased since the last report.  
A commercial real estate professional noted an  increase in transacti ons, including a portfolio 
of retail centers, a large distribution center, an office building, a mi xed-use property and a 
hotel in the Minneapolis-St. Paul  area. Growth has slowed somewhat but is still strong in 
residential real estate markets. July home sales were up 13 percent from the same period a 
year ago in Minnesota; the inve ntory of homes for sa le increased by 1 percent, and median 
sale prices rose 13 percent. In the Sioux Falls  area, July home sales were up 25 percent and 
inventory was down 11 percent, but the median sale price decreased 3 percent relative to a 
year earlier.  
Services 
Recent activity at professional business se rvices firms was mixed, depending on the 
service. An information technology consulti ng contact noted continued strong demand. A 
health care consulting contact said business was up. Mortgage and real estate title 
company contacts reported an increase in purchase activity but a decrease in refinance activity. An architectural contact noted flat  activity since the last report. A large 
Minnesota-based law firm noted a slight decr ease in July billable hours compared with a 
year ago primarily due to reduced merger and acquisition business.  
Manufacturing 
The District manufacturing s ector continued to grow mode rately. A July survey of 
purchasing managers by Creighton Univer sity (Omaha Neb.) indicated that 
manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota  and the Dakotas; the pace of growth rose 
in South Dakota but declined in Nort h Dakota and Minnesota. An electronics 
manufacturer recently broke ground on a new plant in Minnesot a. However, a large beef 
slaughter and packing facility in Sout h Dakota filed for bankruptcy in July. 
Energy and Mining 
Growth in the energy sector continued, wh ile mining activity was flat. Oil and gas 
exploration activity de creased slightly in mid-August in North Dakota and Montana from 
a month earlier. The Bureau of Land Management in South Dakota recently auctioned off 
50 oil and gas leases, indicating that explorati on is expanding into the area, but activity is 
expected to be modest relative to Nort h Dakota. An electricity utility completed 
IX-3 
 multiyear upgrades to a nuclear power plant in  Minnesota, at a total cost of nearly $600 
million. Two facilities that will serve Ca nadian oil sands development are under 
construction in Montana. July  output at District iron ore mines was slightly above its 
year-earlier levels after several slower m onths. Some Minnesota and Wisconsin mines 
that produce sand for hydraulic fr acturing have idled recently. 
Agriculture 
Conditions for District agricultural producer s improved since the last report. While 
progress remains slower than average, recen t warm and dry weather has helped crops 
catch up, as the majority of the corn, soybean and spring wheat crops are listed in good or 
excellent condition in all District states. According to the Minneapolis Fed’s second-
quarter (July) survey of agricultural credit  conditions, 90 percent of respondents said 
farm incomes increased or held steady over the previous three months, with similar 
results for household and capital spending. Despite the wet beginning to the growing 
season, USDA estimates indicate that acres of co rn and soybeans plante d in District states 
saw only a small decline compared with last year. North Dakota wheat acreage fell nearly 
1 million acres, or 12 percent, from last y ear. Prices received by producers increased in 
July from a year earlier for cattle, hogs, milk, eggs, chicken, hay and potatoes; prices for 
corn, wheat, dry beans and turkeys fell, while soybean prices were flat. 
Employment, Wages and Prices Hiring announcements were more prevalent than layoff announcements since the last 
report. A new information technology support center broke ground in  South Dakota that 
will bring 200 jobs to the state. In Minneso ta, a manufacturer recently completed an 
expansion of its headquarters, with plans to hire 200 new workers over the next few 
years. Another manufacturer recently purchased a new industrial building in Minnesota 
and will hire 100 new workers. A representa tive of a Minnesota staffing firm noted 
continued solid demand for te mporary work placements.  Some district manufacturers 
were having difficulty filling job openings for technical positions due to  a lack of suitable 
workers. In contrast, the aforementioned S outh Dakota meat packer laid off about 250 
workers and a bank in Minnesota is layi ng off 160 employees due to slowdown in 
mortgage refinancing activity.  
Wage increases were moderate. A Minnesota county recently offered a contract to 
union employees with wage increases of 4.5 percent, spread over three years. 
IX-4 
 Prices were relatively level since the la st report, with some exceptions noted. 
Recent fertilizer prices were down from a y ear ago, while lumber prices were up about 10 
percent compared with last year. Metals pric es increased somewhat since the last report. 
Representatives of health systems with operati ons in the District noted that medical cost 
inflation subsided recently, and they exp ect it to remain relatively subdued going 
forward. 
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy e xpanded moderately in July and early August with further 
gains anticipated during the co ming months. Strong retail and auto sales fueled consumer 
spending with positive expectations for future sa les. District manufact uring activity picked up, 
and some plant managers were hiring additional workers. Residential and commercial real estate 
markets continued to strengthen with an upswing in  construction and a rise  in sales. District 
banks reported improved loan quality and stable  deposits, but slightly weaker loan demand. 
Agricultural growing conditions were affected by drought, but lower farm income expectations 
did not dampen farmland prices. District energy ac tivity remained solid with stronger natural gas 
exploration offsetting a slight dr op in oil drilling. The price of raw materials continued to trend 
higher, but finished goods prices generally held  steady. More contacts co mmented that difficulty 
finding qualified labor, pa rticularly in highly skilled fields , was placing modest upward pressure 
on wages. Most firms reported little or no eff ect on business activity from sequestration budget 
cuts, though some manufacturers reported a decline in defense orders and hotels noted fewer 
government employees were traveling.  
Consumer Spending. Consumer spending strengthened in July and early August and 
was expected to rise further in coming months.  District retailers reported higher sales, 
particularly for large-ticket hom e goods such as mid-priced app liances and furniture as well as 
seasonal items and clearance merchandise. However,  sales of premium goods such as jewelry 
and high-end appliances slowed. Auto dealers reported somewhat easier access to credit and a 
rise in sales that was expected  to continue in coming months. Economy cars and used vehicles 
sold well with strong demand for trucks in rural ar eas. Restaurant sales incr eased, as more diners 
paid higher average check amounts. Tourism activ ity remained solid through the summer, though 
gasoline sales were down from year-ago levels . After rising during th e last survey period, 
District hotel owners reported a moderate dr op in occupancy despite previous reductions in 
average room rates. Some hoteliers attribut ed fewer bookings to less government travel. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing activity rose moderately 
in July and early August while sales at high-tech  service firms and transportation firms generally 
held steady. Following a downturn in June, District factory activity  strengthened with increased 
production, especially for food processing, m achinery and metal manufacturers. Some 
 
 X-2  
manufacturers noted a drop in or ders from defense contractors due to federal spending cuts. 
Overall, however, the volume of new orders rose  in July and was expected to strengthen during 
the next six months. In addition, a rise in the volume of shipme nts reduced order backlogs and 
finished goods inventories held steady. Plant managers indicated modest hiring and capital 
spending plans with solid expectations for futu re factory output. After slowing during recent 
survey periods, transportation activity stabilized, despite an upswing in prices charged. Several 
trucking firms noted more shipments of refrig erated goods. Sales at high-tech firms dipped 
during the survey period but were expected to bounce back during the next three months. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential and commercial real estate activity 
strengthened further in July a nd early August and was expected to  remain robust through the fall. 
Home starts rose, though some builders were conc erned that a shortage of skilled labor could 
constrain growth. Lot prices were expected to in crease with tighter suppli es of available sites. 
Sales at construction supply firms were up and some  building materials, particularly drywall and 
roofing shingles, were in short supply. A rise in home sales s upported higher home prices even 
with an uptick in the number of houses on the market. Residential mortgage lenders reported 
solid demand for home purchase loans but a sharp dr op in refinancing activity that was attributed 
to higher interest rates. Comm ercial construction escalated dur ing the survey period and was 
expected to expand further in the coming months. Commercial real estate prices and rents moved 
higher as sales activity picked up and vacancy ra tes trended down. Developers reported little 
change in access to credit.  
Banking.   In the recent survey period, bankers reported slightly weaker overall loan 
demand, improved loan quality, and stable depos it levels.  Respondents reported steady demand 
for commercial real estate, cons umer installment loans, and commercial and industrial loans, 
while demand for residential real estate loans de clined.  Bankers noted a moderate improvement 
in loan quality since the last survey period wi th additional quality improvements expected during 
the next six months. Credit standards remained  unchanged in all major loan categories and 
respondents reported stable deposits.   
Agriculture. Farm income prospects dimmed since the last survey period as drought 
persisted and crop prices fell. While yields va ried, winter wheat produ ction was below average 
across the District. In some areas without irri gation, dry weather hindere d corn development and 
weakened plants against disease.  Much of the District’s corn  crop was considered in fair 
 
 X-3  
condition although the soybean crop was still rate d in mostly good condition. Crop prices fell in 
August on higher global production estimates. Even w ith a drop in feed pr ices, losses continued 
for most feedlot operators as ca ttle prices moved lower. In contrast, a rebound in hog prices 
returned profits to some hog producers. Demand fo r farm operating loans strengthened with high 
input costs and reduced farm income. Despite weaker farm income prospects, farmland values continued to set records, with de mand for farmland driven in part by high levels of wealth in the 
farm sector. 
Energy.  District energy activity remained solid in July and early August and was 
expected to strengthen somewhat in the coming m onths. The number of active natural gas rigs in 
the District edged up, particularly  in Wyoming and Colorado, despit e further declines in natural 
gas prices. Natural gas prices, how ever, were expected to rise s easonally as increased demand for 
winter heating draws down supplies. In contrast, the number of active oil rigs in the District 
tapered during August even though oil prices have recently risen. Some District contacts noted a 
lack of qualified labor and di fficulty obtaining fina ncing were constraining drilling activity. 
Several energy firms were also concerned that  government budget cuts due to sequestration 
could cause further slowdowns in permitting. Wyoming’s coal production through early August 
remained below year-ago levels. After falling in  July, ethanol production ro se modestly in early 
August when corn prices fell. 
Wages and Prices.  Wage pressures edged up during th e survey period, raw materials 
prices trended higher, and fini shed goods prices generally held  steady. On-going shortages of 
high-skilled labor in some special ized industries, particularly c onstruction, energy, high-tech and 
transportation, placed slightly more upward pres sure on wages during the survey period. Other 
firms, primarily in retail, leisure and hospitality  industries, were beginning to raise wages to 
attract salespeople, housekeepers, maintenance and clerical staff. Builders and construction 
supply companies noted higher prices for c onstruction materials in short supply. Some 
transportation companies charged more for freight ha uling in light of higher input costs. The cost 
of raw materials for manufacturing rose at a sim ilar pace compared to the previous survey period 
and most finished goods prices we re flat. Despite an ongoing rise in  food costs, most restaurant 
owners were not increasing me nu prices. Retailers held sell ing prices steady and did not 
anticipate raising prices during the next three mo nths. As occupancy rate s fell, hotel operators 
planned to lower average room rates.  
XI-1 
 
 ELEVENTH DISTRICT —DALLAS 
            The Eleventh District economy expa nded at a moderate pace over the past six weeks.  
While many respondents noted steady demand, there were more noting improvi ng versus declining 
demand.  Sales grew for firms in residential constr uction, retail, accounting, fabricated metals, food and 
kindred products, and automobile dealerships.  Fina ncial firms and paper producers reported a decline in 
demand.  The energy sector noted some flattening of ac tivity at high levels. Drought continued to plague 
the region although recent rains have slightly impr oved growing conditions in some areas.     
 Prices   Most responding firms said that prices were stable since the last report.  Contacts in oil, 
paper and beef production reported slight increases in prices while law firms and retailers noted slight 
price reductions. Fabricated metals producers and accounting firms said that increasing cost pressures may result in price increases in the coming months. Contacts in the residential housing sector noted that 
overall home prices in most major metros continued to rise at a moderate to fast pace.  Energy prices were 
mixed, with natural gas prices holding steady and the pr ice of West Texas Intermediate crude rising to an 
average of $104 per barrel over the past six weeks.  Gasoline and diesel prices declined modestly. 
 Labor Market    Employment was flat to slightly higher at most responding firms with few reports 
of layoffs.  Wage pressures remained subdued except in  the case of a few professions such as information 
technology and engineering. Constr uction-related contacts noted some  labor shortages, although there 
were no reports of wage pressures. Contacts in auto dealerships, primary metals, high-tech manufacturing 
and accounting firms said that employment was up slight ly.  Retailers reported flat employment growth, 
except in oil and gas producing areas where jobs con tinued to grow. Financial firms reported a slight 
decline in jobs.  
 Manufacturing  Construction-related activity was mixed, according to respondents. Some 
contacts reported flat to slightly improved de mand, although one contact noted strong demand from 
Houston infrastructure projects. Fabricated metals  producers noted demand was up due to oil and gas 
activity and outlooks were positive.  Primary meta ls producers said demand held steady, but outlooks 
were mixed, with some concern for the rest of the year.  Food producers said demand picked up since the last report and the pickup was above normal seasonal increases. Paper producers noted weak demand and uncertain outlooks. 
 Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said that growth in demand remained stable at a modest 
pace since the last report.  Demand for tablets a nd cloud-related products con tinued to grow strongly 
while personal computer-demand remained weak. On e contact noted a pickup in U.S. demand for 
communications infrastructure. Employment was repor ted as flat to slightly increasing. While overall 
wage pressures were modest, in some locations, su ch as Austin, respondents said that competition for 
XI-2 
 
 skills such as electrical engineering was driving wag es higher and causing employees to change jobs more 
frequently.   Respondents remain cautiously optimistic  about growth over the next six months with one 
respondent noting that growth has become  more persistent in recent quarters 
 Retail Sales   Retail sales picked up since the last report, spurred in part by back-to-school 
shopping. According to two national retailers, Texas sal es continued to outperform the national average.  
Contacts’ outlooks through the end of the year were positive.  Automobile sales picked up over the reporti ng period, and demand was up from year-ago levels. 
Inventories continued to vary by manufacturer. Selli ng prices remained stable, but contacts expect an 
increase with the new model year this fall. Contacts’ outlo oks for the rest of the quarter and the rest of the 
year were optimistic.  Nonfinancial Services   Staffing firms’ reports were mixed, with one contact reporting near-record 
levels of direct hiring, especially in engineering a nd healthcare, and other contacts reporting declines in 
hiring in manufacturing and logistics. Outlooks were also mixed. 
 Legal firms reported modest growth in demand for services, a positive sign after mixed growth in 
the second quarter. There was a continued absen ce of transactions and litigation work—with the 
exception of robust intellectual property litigation dema nd. Rates were unchanged, and collections were 
good, although not as good as last year. Employme nt was roughly flat, with many partners moving 
laterally, but some firms were actively seeking experienced associates. A small number of summer clerks were offered jobs starting next summer. Associate compensation at large firms rose to match associate 
compensation at New York firms. The outlook is for m odest hiring and growth over the next two months, 
with some recent growth in transac tions work spurring more optimism 
 Accounting demand remained strong and exhib ited growth across the board. Rates remained 
stable, and wages have increased or will increase mo derately. Firms continued to hire, and headcounts 
were up. A San Antonio contact noted it was hard  to find good, experienced candidates because of 
competition from other firms. The outlook is for a strong close to the quarter with robust backlogs for the 
next six months. 
 Transportation service firms noted that cargo volum es were mixed, with increases in railroad and 
container volumes, but flat air cargo and declining small parcel volumes. Rail volumes were boosted by 
robust growth in petroleum shipments.  Airline contacts said demand was seasonally dow n but bookings and yields were up year-over-
year. Demand was strong over the summer and the outl ook is quite optimistic compared to last year. 
Construction and Real Estate  Single-family housing activity remained strong over the past six 
weeks according to contacts. Most responding firm s noted that new home construction has increased in 
response to robust sales, especially in the Houston, Dallas and Austin metro areas. Some contacts 
XI-3 
 
 expressed concern about the high level of multi-family  construction in major Texas metros, but overall 
apartment occupancy rates improved since the last repo rt. Contacts are mostly optimistic in their forecasts 
through year-end.  
Office and industrial construction was reportedly rising, with several announced projects in the 
Dallas/Fort Worth and Houston areas. Overall, Texas co mmercial real estate markets continue to fare well 
compared to other parts of the U.S. Contacts noted moderate to strong growth in rental rates in most commercial real estate sectors as leasing activity has increased.  
 Financial Services    Financial institutions experienced a modest decline in loan activity and the 
level of loan demand was soft. Demand for real estat e loans, especially in the San Antonio and Austin, 
areas was good, with the exception of weakness in multi-family real estate lending. Contacts reported 
loan quality was good and continued to improve a nd borrowers continued paying down debt. Loan 
pricing remained competitive.  Deposit volumes remain ed strong and grew at a moderate pace, although 
slower than a year ago. Deposit rates were mo stly unchanged, with increases on some long-term 
certificates of deposit. The outlook for financial institu tions is for continued softness in lending; however, 
there is a good pipeline for loans, and there is hope for more mergers and acquisitions activity according 
to responding firms. The finalized Basel III re gulations were a relief to community bankers. 
Energy    Drilling activity was little changed at high levels. Global demand held steady. 
Respondents expect improvement in energy activity in the second half of the year, due in part to 
anticipated increases in rig activity and production fro m the Gulf of Mexico. The recent increase in oil 
prices has increased the cost advantage of domestic petrochemicals firms.  
Agriculture    Drought conditions continued to affect mo st of the district, although the severity in 
several areas was eased by unusually good July ra infall. Farmers began harvesting row crops, and 
conditions were mostly fair to good.  The cotton crop is expected to be smaller than previously anticipated, 
causing cotton prices to improve slightly. Feeder ca ttle prices rose over the reporting period because of 
tight supplies and lower feed costs. 
 
XII - 1 
 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary 
Economic activity in the Twelfth District expa nded at a modest pace during the reporting period 
of early July through late August.  Price infla tion was subdued for most final goods and services, and 
upward wage pressures were very modest.  Reta il sales rose on net, while demand for business and 
consumer services was more mixed.  District manuf acturing activity edged up.  Agricultural production 
and sales expanded.  Demand for housing strengthened,  and commercial real estate activity firmed.  
Reports from financial institutions indicated  that loan demand increased slightly.  
Prices and Wages  
 Price inflation was subdued for most final goods and services.  Reports indicated stable prices for 
steel and scrap metal products.  Technology industry c ontacts reported that prices were slightly lower than 
had been anticipated for some business software and for computer hardware inputs.  Hospitality sector 
contacts noted large price declines for linens, versus  persistent price increases for a variety of food 
products.   
Upward wage pressures were very modest overall.  Slack in the labor market held back wage 
gains in most sectors, occupations, and regions.  Repo rts indicated that overall wages at technology firms 
have been mostly stable or modestly increasing.  However, firms in various industries continued to 
compete vigorously for a limited pool of qualified wo rkers to fill certain technical positions, spurring 
significant wage growth in these slots.   
Retail Trade and Services 
 Retail sales rose on net, and most contacts’ ou tlooks for future consumer spending improved 
slightly since the prior reporting period.  Technol ogy companies reported increased sales overall, with 
growth on the business side outpacing gains in consumer  demand.  However, grocery and apparel retailers 
noted soft sales.  These contacts pointed to evid ence of households taking advantage of attractive 
financing opportunities and devoting their budgets to big-ticket items, such as housing and autos.  Large 
inventories at many dealerships fueled a robust pace for new and used automobile sales, especially light 
XII - 2 
 truck sales.  Contacts indicated strong demand for hobby game products, as the core customers tend to 
work in relatively high-wage math and science professions.   
 Demand for business and consumer services varied across sectors.  Reports indicated that many 
service providers increased capital expenditures in an ticipation of stronger demand.  However, contacts 
noted that recent demand has been tepid for elec tive health-care and other discretionary services, 
including restaurant dining.  Contacts also noted soft demand and downward pressure on fees for legal 
services.  Travel and tourism activity in Hawaii mainta ined its solid pace of growth, and after slipping 
earlier in the year, tourist activity in Southern Calif ornia picked up during the summer months.  Contacts 
noted strong convention attendance in Las Vega s but some weakness in leisure travel.   
Manufacturing  
 District manufacturing activity edged up during the reporting period of early July through late 
August.  Demand for semiconductors increased, as indicat ed by modest growth in new orders and sales.  
Although capacity utilization for electronic components in general held steady, contacts noted that 
demand was somewhat subdued.  Demand for comme rcial aircraft remained solid.  Defense 
manufacturers noted more muted demand due to the o ngoing effects of the federal sequester.  Biotech 
drug manufacturing increased modestly.  Shipments of  steel products used primarily in nonresidential 
construction continued to increase, and steel producer s reported that overall capac ity utilization ticked up 
a bit further.  In particular, reports indicated that  capacity utilization for steel manufacturing was stronger 
for automobile and aircraft-related inputs than for nonresidential construction inputs.  Many contacts 
expect manufacturing industry conditions to improve sli ghtly in the second half of the year relative to the 
first half. Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  
Sales of agricultural items and resource-related production activity expanded in the District.  
Demand was generally strong for most crop and livestoc k products.  However, relatively light traffic at 
fast-food restaurants limited sales of some vegetables.  In addition, some grain producers expect slightly 
lower profits due to price declines.  Despite a modest  decline in demand for various oil products, contacts 
XII - 3 
 expect overall sales to increase in the medium term.  Refinery utilization rates and gasoline production 
increased.  Utility providers reported that energy sal es to aerospace and housing-related firms were 
robust. 
Real Estate and Construction 
 Demand for housing strengthened further, and commercial real estate activity was stable or 
improved.  Although levels remained significantly lowe r than in the pre-recession period, both home sales 
and house prices climbed further relative to the prior re porting period in many District cities.  In some 
areas, demand for new homes substantially exceeded the supply, and shortages of construction workers 
held back the pace of new home construction activit y.  Multifamily residential construction projects 
increased.  Rental rates for commercial real estate e dged up as occupancies climbed.  Contacts in some 
major metropolitan areas noted declining commercial real estate inventories and expressed near-term 
concerns about capacity constraints.   
Financial Institutions 
Financial institution reports indicated that loan de mand increased slightly on net.  Most contacts 
reported increased lending relative to a year earlier, but  some reported a slight downtick more recently.  
Contacts noted that mortgage origination levels were  mostly stable despite the increase in mortgage 
interest rates, although the number of new applicati ons has dropped a bit in some areas.  Some contacts 
expect the pace of refinancing activity to slow as well.  Reports highlighted  ample bank liquidity and 
substantial competition for high-quality commercial borro wers.  In the District’s Internet and digital 
media sectors, mergers and acquisitions activity and venture capital activity grew in terms of both deal 
value and volume.  However, the pace of initial publ ic offerings remained weak, and private equity 
activity was flat.   