               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. 
               Wednesday 
               February 29, 2012 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
 
 
Current 
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITION S 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT 
 
 
FEBRUARY 2012 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  
 SUMMARY ............................................................................................................. i  First District – Boston ...........................................................................................I-1  Second District – New York ............................................................................... II-1  Third District – Philadelphia..............................................................................III-1  Fourth District – Cleveland................................................................................IV-1  Fifth District – Richmond ................................................................................... V-1  Sixth District – Atlanta ......................................................................................VI-1  Seventh District – Chicago .............................................................................. VII-1  Eighth District – St. Louis............................................................................... VIII-1  Ninth District – Minneapolis..............................................................................IX-1  Tenth District – Kansas City............................................................................... X-1 
 
Eleventh District – Dallas ..................................................................................XI-1  Twelfth District – San Francisco...................................................................... XII-1 
i 
 
Summary* 
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Dist ricts suggest that overall economic activity 
continued to increase at a modest to modera te pace in January and early February. Activity 
expanded at a moderate pace in the Cleveland, Ch icago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco 
Districts. St. Louis noted a modest pace of grow th and Minneapolis characterized the pace of 
growth as firm. Economic activity rose at a some what faster pace in the Philadelphia and Atlanta 
Districts, while the New York District noted a somewhat slower pace of expansion. The Boston 
and Richmond Districts, in turn, noted that ec onomic activity expanded or improved in most 
sectors. 
Manufacturing continued to expand at a steady pace across th e nation, with many 
Districts reporting increases in new orders, sh ipments, or production and several Districts 
indicating gains in capital spending, especially in auto-rel ated industries. Activ ity in nonfinancial 
services industries remained stable or increase d. Reports of consumer spending were generally 
positive except for sales of seasonal items, and th e sales outlook for the near future was mostly 
optimistic. Tourism remained strong in some reporti ng Districts, but declin ed in the Minneapolis 
and Kansas City Districts because of reduced snow fall. Residential real estate market conditions 
improved somewhat in most Districts, with seve ral reports of increased  home sales and some 
reports of increased construction. Commercial real estate markets al so showed positive results in 
some Districts. Banking condi tions generally improved across the Districts. Agricultural 
conditions were mixed, while extrac tion activity genera lly increased.  
                                                             
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and based on information collected on or before February 17, 
2012. This document summari zes comments received from business and ot her contacts outside the Federal Reserve 
System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
ii 
 
Hiring increased slightly across several Districts, and contacts  in a variety of industries 
faced difficulties finding skilled workers. Wage pressures were generally  contained, and prices 
of final goods remained stable, a lthough contacts in some District s anticipate passing rising input 
prices through to consumer prices. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing has continued to increase across all twelve Fe deral Reserve Districts since 
the previous report. Most Districts reported gains in new orders, shipments, or production. 
Contacts reported increased capita l spending in the Boston, Rich mond, Chicago, Kansas City, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Da llas Districts; contacts in Philadelphia and Cleveland also 
anticipate higher capital spendi ng. Manufacturing contacts in San Francisco also continued to 
invest in information technology equipment. Auto-related manufacturers in the Richmond, 
Atlanta, St. Louis, and Minneap olis Districts reporte d increased activity a nd announced plans to 
expand operations and open new plants. Primary me tal manufacturing showed  strong growth in 
the Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts.  Fabricated metal manufacturing increased in the 
Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts but was essentially flat in the San Francisco 
District. Steel producers reported that shippi ng volume was trending higher in the Cleveland 
District and specialty metal contacts reported so lid order bookings in the Chicago District. In 
contrast to the many positive reports, contacts in some Districts reported plans to decrease operations and close plants. Contacts in ch emical and paper product manufacturing in the 
St. Louis District reported plans to close plants and lay off wo rkers, while manufacturers of 
household goods and building materi als reported soft demand on aver age in the Chicago District. 
Manufacturing contacts in the Bost on, Philadelphia, and Clevela nd Districts expressed concern 
about the risks posed by the situation in Europe.  
iii 
 
Nonfinancial services activity was stable or  increased in the New York, Philadelphia, 
Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Fran cisco Districts. Transportation 
services were stable or trending higher in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, and Dallas 
Districts. In contrast, freight transportation contacts in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts 
reported that business had slowed. Information te chnology service firms in the Boston, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts have experienced increased demand since the previous 
reporting period. Additionally, contacts in hea lth care announced plans to increase capital 
spending or expand operations in the Richmond and St. Louis Districts. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Retail sales in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City 
Districts were higher than year-e arlier sales. The Boston District reported strong same-store sales 
in the last few months of 2011, but mixed results  for same-store sales in January. Retail sales 
increased in the Richmond and San Francisco Dist ricts, but were mixed in the New York and 
Cleveland Districts and weakened in the Kansas C ity District. Retail sales growth in the Dallas 
District was tepid and consumer  spending growth slowed in th e Chicago District. The Boston, 
New York, Philadelphia, Clevela nd, Chicago, and Dallas Districts not ed that mild winter weather 
had depressed sales of seasonal items. Mark-dow ns on winter merchandise to clear inventory 
were reported in the Boston, Chicago, and Rich mond Districts. Aside from unsold seasonal 
items, inventories were more broa dly reported to be at satisfactor y levels. All Districts reporting 
sales expectations for the coming months indi cated optimism among contacts that sales will 
improve.  
Gains in auto sales were reported in the Phila delphia, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Minneapolis 
Districts. Chicago also reported sales increases  in January, but noted that sales were down 
iv 
 
slightly in early February. Auto dealers in the New York, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts 
reported a slowdown in recent auto sales, while auto sales held steady in the Dallas District and 
contacts in the Kansas City District reported a post-holiday lull in sales. All Districts reporting on sales outlooks conveyed optimism. Dealers in the Kansas City District expect demand for 
smaller, fuel-efficient cars to spur sales in coming months, while contacts in the Cleveland 
District were optimistic but uncertain that sa les increases in 2011 coul d be repeated in 2012. 
Tourism strengthened or remained strong in  the New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and San 
Francisco Districts. The Minneapol is and Kansas City Districts reported a decrease in tourism 
largely attributed to below-average snowfall. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate activity  increased modestly in most  Districts. Boston, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas Cit y, and Dallas reported growth in  home sales, while New York 
noted steady to slightly softer home sales. Phil adelphia reported strong residential real estate 
activity. In contrast, home sales declined in St. Louis and San Francisco not ed that home demand 
persisted at low levels. Contacts’ outlooks on home sales growth were mostly optimistic. 
Contacts in Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Dallas expect home sales to rise further. Home 
prices declined or held steady in many areas. Cl eveland and Atlanta reporte d little movement in 
house prices, while contacts in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, and 
Kansas City reported some declines. Single-family residential construction was weak in Chicago and declined in St. Louis; Cleveland noted that  the year-end uptick seen in construction has 
abated somewhat, and Minneapolis noted increase d single-family building permits. In contrast, 
Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dall as, and San Francisco reported increased 
multifamily construction activity.  
v 
 
Commercial real estate market s displayed positive results in some Districts, as leasing 
showed overall improvement. Minneapolis, Ri chmond, Chicago, and Dallas noted increased 
leasing. Boston, however, reported mostly unchange d leasing fundamentals with some modest 
improvement since the previous report. Commercial vacancy rates were mixed in New York, 
decreased in Chicago, increased in St. Louis,  and stayed high in San Francisco. Boston and 
Dallas noted limited levels of nonresidential cons truction, while Cleveland and Chicago noted 
improved nonresidential construction.  
Banking and Finance 
Reports on banking conditions were gene rally positive across Districts. Lending 
increased to varying degree in the New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Districts. Lending was little changed in St. Louis and Ka nsas City, while loan demand 
was described as weak in Richmond and soft at  regional banks in Atlanta. Demand for business 
credit was flat to slightly hi gher in Cleveland and increased sl ightly in Richmond, San Francisco, 
and at some large banks in Atlanta. Dallas  reported strength in middle-market and large 
corporate lending, and Chicago noted that business loan growth continued at a moderate pace. 
On the consumer side, loan demand saw little change in New York and San Francisco. Cleveland and Atlanta noted increase d auto lending, while Kansas City reported slightly weaker consumer 
installment lending. Consumer lending in St. Louis ranged fr om moderately weaker to 
unchanged. Demand for residential mortgage lo ans increased in New York, Richmond, and 
Kansas City; mortgage demand was flat to mode rately stronger in St. Louis and softened in 
Kansas City. Cleveland noted in creases in requests for commerc ial real estate lending, while 
contacts in Chicago and San Fran cisco noted improvement in the av ailability of credit for this 
vi 
 
sector. Meanwhile Philadelphia and Kansas City reported flat or steady commercial real estate 
lending. Demand for commercial real estate loans was flat to moderately stronger in St. Louis.  
Overall lending standards remained restrict ive in San Francisco and Richmond and were 
largely unchanged in St. Louis and Kansas C ity. Lending standards tightened further for 
commercial borrowers in New York. Credit cond itions in Chicago improved slightly, while 
quality improved in Philadelphia and Kansas C ity. Delinquencies were steady or declined in 
Cleveland. Mortgage delinquenc ies were steady in the New Yo rk District but delinquencies 
decreased in other loan categories.  
Agriculture and Natural Resource Industries 
Drought conditions and warm temperatures a ffected agricultural conditions in some 
Districts. However, recent rainfalls in parts of  the Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas 
Districts helped ease the dry conditions. Crop yiel ds for St. Louis were mixed, with only winter 
wheat, rice, and tobacco showing positive gains for 2011. Tobacco and cotton yields in Richmond were lower than historical averages. Sa n Francisco reported growth in orders and final 
sales for agriculture products. Farm values a nd incomes were stronger in Minneapolis and 
Kansas City, while Richmond saw a slight drop in farmland values.  
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted higher crude oi l extraction activity. 
Similarly, Chicago and Minneapolis reported ro bust activity in energy and mining, and energy-
related service firms in Dallas reported very strong demand. Mini ng for various metals also 
increased in the San Francisco Di strict. Cleveland repor ted flat conventional oil and natural gas 
drilling and production, and San Fr ancisco observed lower demand for natural gas. The Dallas 
District noted drilling cu ts by a few gas-directed firms, but contacts anticipate that oil-directed 
vii 
 
activity will offset losses. Comp ared with a year ago, current  coal production is lower in 
St. Louis and higher in Kansas City. 
Employment, Wages, and Prices  
Of the Districts reporting on hiring, most indicated a slight  increase. Boston, New York, 
Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis,  and Minneapolis reported increased hiring in manufacturing, 
and contacts in Philadelphia and Kansas City anticipate future hiring in the sector. Several 
businesses in the Atlanta District also reported plans to increase payrolls . Philadelphia, Kansas 
City, and Dallas noted increased hiring among au to dealers. Contacts in Boston, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas we re having difficulties finding skilled or 
specialized workers in a variet y of industries. In contrast, Boston manufacturing contacts 
reported fewer complaints about being unable to  find qualified workers. Chicago noted that 
hiring remains selective and l ong-term unemployment elevated, while San Francisco noted 
limited demand for new workers. Staffing firms in  Boston noted that th e hiring cycle remains 
“elongated” despite stronger dema nd. Staffing firms in Dallas also noted high demand, while a 
major employment agency in Ne w York indicated flat hiring. 
Among Districts commenting on wages, upw ard pressures appeared limited. Boston 
noted limited pay rises in re tail and manufacturing. Richmond reported some upward wage 
pressures in the service sector  and manufacturing. Dallas and San Francisco reported minimal 
wage pressures, although upward pr essure for certain specialized positions was reported in both 
Districts. Similarly, wage pressures remained la rgely subdued in Kansas City except for high-
tech and energy positions . Wage pressures were modest or largely contained in Cleveland and 
Dallas, while Philadelphia noted flat wages and Minneapolis reported mode st wage increases. 
New York noted that Wall Street comp ensation remains under downward pressure. 
viii 
 
Prices of final goods and services were re latively stable in most Di stricts. Retail prices 
increased at a moderate pace in the Richmond a nd Kansas City Districts. Contacts in the New 
York District reported modest increases in sell ing prices and prices paid. Contacts in the 
Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City , and Dallas Districts noted ri sing input prices with some 
expectation of pass-through to co nsumer prices. Cost pressure s were largely unchanged in 
Chicago and input prices have stabilized in the Boston District , while business contacts noted 
some increase in cost pressures in the New Yo rk District. Minneapolis and San Francisco noted 
increases in the costs of employee benefits. Philadelphia noted mixed price pressures among 
manufacturing firms, with some firms unable to pass their higher costs along. Atlanta reported 
that concerns over increased input costs ease d, although several manufacturing firms noted an 
increase in commodity prices since the previous report.  
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Economic activity in the First District continues to expand. With the exception of real estate, 
business contacts are generally upbeat about recent results, repor ting similar  or better growth than  in the 
last couple of reports. Commercial and residential real estate markets are not much changed, with 
respondents citing weak but not disastrous conditions. While staffing firms note increased demand for 
labor, contacts in retail and manufacturing say they are hiring only modestly  and plan limited pay rais es. 
With a few exceptions, price pressures appear to have abated.  
Retail and Tourism  
First District retailers  responding in this round report that business conditions  in early 2012  have 
continued the i mprovement seen in the fourth quarter . Contacts ending  their fiscal year in late December 
or early January say  that fiscal 2011 sales ranged from down 2 percent to up 5 percent  compared to 2010. 
These results are generally better than they  expected at the start of 2011 and reflect strong same- store 
sales in the last few months of 2011  as compared to earlier in the year ; indeed, December 2011 same -
store sales ranged from high single -digit increases year -over-year to mid -teen increases. The range of 
results w as wider i n January 2012 : One retailer reports same -store sales were  down 8 percent to 9 percent  
year-over-year, which he  attribute s to mild weather depressing demand for winter  hardware  items as 
compared to a pa rticularly snowy January 2011. Another saw  January comp arable -store sales up 7 percent 
compared to a year ago, and a third respondent  enjoyed a  17 percent  jump , which he credit s in part to the 
mild winter not keeping customers at home. All contact s note that store traffic i s up.  
Responding retail ers report that furniture is selling very well, as is paint. As noted above, the mild 
winter has depressed sales of some seasonal items, and one retailer has steeply discounted winter clothing 
to get rid of inventory. Prices on furniture are generally flat , but retailers expect the cost of  items made 
with copper or titanium oxide (paint) to reflect  price  increases in these commodities. Stores are doing  
light hiring  for some full -time and part -time positions ; they  are budgeting  2012 merit pay increases 
betwe en 2 and 3  percent. R etail respondents  expect the U.S. economy to  improve  further in 2012. While 
remaining a bit cautious, they all note that economic conditions seem more favorable  than last fall.  
Manufacturing and Related Services  
Manufacturing conditions in the First District appear to have improved since the end of last year . 
All respondents in this cycle report sales growth in the fourth quarter from a year earlier. Although many 
contacts express serious concerns about the situation in Europe,  only two say that sales to Europe we re 
actually down . In contrast to the last two rounds, this time few contacts mention weakness in Asia. 
Contacts among defense suppliers express concern about the budget . One had concluded that programs 
his firm worked on were largely insulated from cuts but said they are “having trouble convincing our investors of that.”  Another said that budget issues are leading to delays but not to reductions in sales .  
Raw material prices have stabilized overall but remain an issue. On the one hand, a plumbing 
manufacturer said that copper is “on the march again.” On the other hand, low natural gas prices have 
been a boon to U.S. industry. A contact in the industrial membrane industry reports that a multimillion 
dollar project to swit ch to natural gas has already led to millions of dollars in savings. A petrochemical 
contact points out that the equivalent price of natural gas i n terms of oil is approximately $25 a barrel, 
making the U.S. a low cost producer of petrochemicals ; as he put  it, we are “exporting natural gas in the 
form of ethylene and polyethylene.”  
All of our manufacturing contacts are increas ing investment and none cites any issues finding 
 
I - 2 
financing. Remarkably, almost all of our contacts say they have acquired at least o ne co mpany over the 
last six months. Almost all responding manufactur ers report increased employment  and there are  fewer 
complaints about difficulties finding qualified workers than in the past ; at the same time, a n equipment  
manufacturer is spending signi ficant sums on training expenses for new hires . A pharmaceutical firm 
closed a facility in Philadelphia and offered jobs in Massachusetts to 20 employees , but reports that only 
six accepted , suggesting confidence in the avai lability of employment . 
Europe is a source of considerable concern but ha s not yet affected our contacts in a significant 
way. Two respondents report slower sales in Europe and one, a plumbing manufacturer, says  Europe i s 
“in a recession.” Another contact revised down their sales growth forecast for 2012 by 2 percentage 
points to 4 percent to 5 percent —with the subtraction  attribute d to weakness in Europe —but at the same 
time indicated the risks had shifted to the upside .  
Software and Information Technology Services  
First District softwa re and information technology services contacts report that the upward trends 
of early 2011 continued through Q4 2011 and into Q1 2012. Year -over-year revenue increases in the 
fourth quarter, ranging from 10 percent to over 25 percent, were generally on pa r with those seen in the 
third quarter. Contacts report upticks in demand across a number of sectors and geographies, with a few 
noting that activity in Europe exceeds their  expectations. Growing workloads have led most contacts to 
continue to add to their  headcounts. Indeed, one contact is on track to expand its workforce by over 20 
percent in 2012; another, by contrast, reports a modest decrease, with a number of management positions 
being eliminated in an ongoing realignment. Two contacts say they have i ncreased capital and technology 
spending relative to a year ago in order to build office space in Massachusetts. Prices are holding steady, with contacts reporting little to no downward pressure. The outlook among software and IT contacts is not 
appreciabl y different from that of three months ago; m ost are cautiously optimistic and expect revenue 
growth in 2012 to be in the range of 10  percent to 20 percent .  
Staffing Services  
New England staffing firms generally  experienced a better -than- usual holiday season in 2011, 
with business picking up steam in early 2012. However, year -over-year revenue changes in the fourth 
quarter varied widely, from flat to up more than 25 percent. Labor demand is higher than  three months 
ago, although a few contacts report signs of slowing in the light industrial sector. The growth in demand 
for permanent and temporary- to-permanent hiring has accelerated in recent months, with one contact 
noting that “clients are definitely ready to hire  permanent employees.” Notwithstanding stronger demand, 
the hiring cycle remains elongated, and high -end skill sets are still  difficult to find. Bill rates and pay rates 
have gone largely unchanged since November but remain above their year -earlier levels.  Looking 
forward, New England staffing contacts are generally more upbeat than they were three and six months 
ago, with many expecting their rate of growth to pick up through the end of 2012.  
Commercial Real Estate  
Commercial real estate contacts around N ew England describe leasing fundamentals as largely 
unchanged since  the last report, although some note modest positive developments. One Boston contact 
report s that some tenants are increasingly willing to pay top dollar for prime office space in Boston’s  
Back Bay, but caution s that such instances do not necessarily reflect a broad -based increase in office 
demand in greater Boston. Another Boston contact describe s the city’s office leasing market as mostly 
flat, but grant s that rents may have increased mar ginally in recent months. A Providence contact is more 
 
I - 3 
upbeat, noting a healthy increase  in deal volume and significant office absorption since  the last report. By 
contrast, o ffice leasing volume slowed somewhat in both Portland and Hartford relative to De cember. For 
retail space, Hartford’s vacancy rate held up better than expected despite weak holiday sales at some large 
chains, while in Portland some long- vacant retail properties have seen a rise  in inquiries by potential 
tenants. Greater Hartford’s indu strial market also saw  a modest uptick in tenant inquiries in recent weeks, 
including signs of life in the area’s moribund warehousing and distribution sector.  
Boston continues to experience a surge of multifamily construction activity, with several large 
projects under way and more in the planning stages. Financing for such projects is available on attractive 
terms, with interest rates dipping below 4  percent in some cases. While investors and lenders are bullish 
on the multifamily sector  and apartment rents have risen significantly in Boston in the past year, some 
contacts see a risk of overbuilding. Boston’s science and technology sector is generating significant build -
to-suit construction of laboratory/office space. At the same time, speculative office construction remains 
non-existent across the area, and one contact estimates that office vacancy rates would have to fall below 
4 percent in Boston to warrant the creation of new office structures. While office construction i s limited, 
the investment sales market for prime Boston office properties remain s robust amid a highly liquid 
financing environment. Echoing similar comments in recent reports, however, some contacts perceive that 
sales prices for prime Boston office properties are  too high in rel ation t o expected fundamentals.  
The outlook among contacts is tilted toward optimism . One Boston contact continues to expect 
only very slow improvement in leasing fundamentals in 2012, while another sees great er upside potential . 
Another contact expects Boston’s multifamily construction boom to last another two to three years, but 
beyond that sees few prospects for any new  construction activity. Our  Providence  contact expects solid 
improvement in fundamentals in 2012, barring risks to growth from local fiscal troubles and a possible spike in oil prices. The outlook in Hartford is moderately optimistic, but based more on sentiment than 
recent data. Portland’s commercial market is expected to i mprove slowly in 2012, although prime office 
properties may see more robus t gains.  
Residential Real Estate  
Sales of single- family homes and condominiums increased in New England  in January,  with most 
reports indicating low to moderate growth in sales compared to a year ago. Contacts say  recent sales 
growth reflect s market activity more accurately than in previous reports, when year -over-year increases 
were  distorted by  the expiration of the tax credit in mid -2010. Meanwhile, the median sale price of homes 
in First District markets declined compared to a year ago, which contacts attribute to distressed property 
sales. Concerns surrounding the impact of labor market conditions on housing demand have abated slightly. Respondents note foreclosures and delinquencies continue to affect the housing market  
significantly , but say these factors play less of a role in New England than in other parts of the country. 
Contacts expect  low mortgage rates and improving employment outlooks to  help f uel buyer activity . In 
the Greater Boston area, rent pressures coupled with low interest  rates may push more buyers into the 
home and condo market.  
Contacts expect to see continued year -over-year growth in home sales in the region , but do  not 
anticipate significant improvements in the near term , with prices remaining flat at best. Contacts a lso note 
that exceptionally mild winter weather may prompt spring sales activity to begin earlier than usual.  
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT --NEW YORK  
The Second District ’s economy has expanded  at a somewhat slower pace since the last 
report.  Labor market conditions  have been little changed in early 2012.  Prices remain relatively 
stable, although business contacts in various industries indicate some increase in cost pressures .  
Manufacturers report further improvement in general business conditions since the last report .  
Retailers indicate mixed sales results for early 2012, though auto dealers indicate some slowing.  
Tourism activity has strengthened somewhat since the last report.  Home sales have been steady to 
slightly softer since the start of the year, but the rental market has continued to improve.  Commercial 
real estate markets have been mixed but slightly improved, on balance .  Finance -sector bonuses are 
reported to be down considerably  from last year’s levels.  Finally, b ankers report  increased loan 
demand, some further tightening in credit standards  for commercial borrowers , and lower 
delinquency rates  across all categories of loans except home mortgages .  
Consumer Spending  
Retail ers report mixed sales results for January and early February.  One retail contact in 
upstate New York reports strong sales in January, buoyed by continued strong demand f rom 
Canadian shoppers .  By contrast, another major retail contact  indicates some slowdown in sales, with 
mild weather hampering sales of winter gear in particular.   Retail ers report that prices continue  to be 
stable  overall .  Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales activity slowed in January, despite 
unseasonably mild weather.  Sales of new vehicles were down 3 -5 percent from a year earlier, though 
the weakness was not quite as pronounced as the figures suggest because January 2011 was a 
particularly strong month for comparison.  Inventories and product availability have improved and 
are no longer much of a factor in restraining sales.  Rochester- area dealers report continued strength 
in used car sales, but dealers in the Buffalo area describe such sales as sluggish.  Wholesale and retail 
credit conditions remain favorable . 
 
 II-2 
Consumer confidenc e continued to  rebound in January .  Both the Conference Board’s survey 
of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA), and Siena College’s survey of New York 
State residents show confidence rising for the  third straight month and reaching its highest level since 
last spring.  Tourism activity has strengthened since the last report.  New York City  hotels report that 
occupan cy rates continued to run moderately ahead of a year earlier , with room rates up modestly .  
After a sluggish December, Broadway theaters report that  attendance and revenues surged more than 
30 percent above year-earlier levels in January —apparently  boosted by a combination of 
unseasonably mild weather and a larger number of shows now running.  Business appears to have 
remained relatively robust into the first half of February.  
Construction and Real Estate  
The home sales market has been mixed but , on balance, slightly softer since the last report , 
while the r esidential rental market has continue d to firm.  Northern New Jersey’s home sales market 
has stabilized but has yet to show any significant signs of a pickup; one industry contact surmises 
that un derlying concern about pending foreclosures and their potential impact on the market 
continues to weigh on potential buyers. A partment rental market s in New York City and northern 
New Jersey ha ve continued to strengthen, with effective rents (factoring in the withdrawal of 
concessions) up 9-10 percent in Manhattan over the past year.  However, New York City’s co-op and 
condo market has softened somewhat thus far in 2012: in Manhattan and Brooklyn, apartment prices 
have held steady but sales volume has tapered off a bit, while in the other boroughs both home prices 
and volume have edged down.  On a somewhat brighter note, real estate contacts in western New 
York State report continued gradual improvement in home sales activity.   
Commercial real  estate markets have been mixed  but, on balance, somewhat improved since 
the last report .  Office market s in New York City and on Long Island showed some further signs of 
strengthening  in early 2012, with vacancy rates drift ing down and asking rents increa sing modestly .  
In contrast, northern New Jersey’s market softened further, as vacancy rates rose to new highs, while 
 
 II-3 
asking rents drifted down.  In Westchester and southwestern Connecticut, asking rents rose, even as 
office vacancy rates climbed to a mult i-year high.   Across upstate New York, office markets were 
mostly steady , though vacancy rates declined in the Albany area.   
Other B usiness Activity  
A major New York  City employment agency specializing in office jobs reports little change 
in labor market conditions thus far in 2012; hiring activity and salaries remain flat.   Uncertainty 
about the economic and regulatory outlook is said to be restraining hiring  in the financial sector .  An 
authority  on New York City’s securities industry indicates that Wall Street compensation remains 
under downward pressure and that bonuses are down 30 percent or more from last year’s levels.  
Manufacturers  across New York State  report  increasingly widespread improvement in business 
conditions in early 2012 and report steady growth in new orders, shipments and employment .  Non-
manufacturing contacts report a modest pickup in business activity and employment  since the last 
report ; both were reported to be flat during  the f inal months of 2011.  M anufacturers continue to 
report modest increases in both selling prices  and prices paid.  Non-manufacturing contacts also 
indicate modest increases in their selling prices but more widespre ad hikes in prices paid for inputs.   
Financial Developments 
Small to medium-sized banks report  an increase in demand for all loan categories except 
consumer loans , for which demand was little changed. Bankers report a particularly widespread 
increase in demand for residential mortgages .  Respondents also indicate  a continued increase in 
demand for refinancing.  Bankers ’ responses suggest  a tightening of credit standards for commercial 
mortgages and commercial and industrial loans  but no change  for the other loan categories.  No 
banker report s an easing of standards in any category.  Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of 
loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories.  Bankers also note  decrease s in average deposit 
rates.  Bankers’ responses point to steady delinquency rates on home mortgage loans but decreases  in 
delinquenc ies for all other loan categories .  
III - 1 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA  
 
 Overall , business activity in the Third District has grown at a somewhat faster pace 
compared with the previous Beige Book. The overall sentiment has been more positive, although 
the very mild winter weather may have played a part.  Since the last Beige Book, m anufactur ing 
activity has grown further with more broad sectors contributing to the gain. Retail  sales 
maintained steady year -over-year increases.  Motor vehicle dealers experienced unseasonably  
strong sales growth overall ; however , results varied by state.  Third District banks have reported 
slight growth in lending and continued improvement of credit quality since the last Beige Book . 
New home construction started the year strong with the warm weather assist.  Commercial real 
estate contacts continued to report steadily improving markets for industrial, retail, and office space.  Overall, s ervice- sector firms reported continued growth. P rice pressures have remain ed 
contained for most sectors , with little change fr om the last Beige Book .  
Most firms have expressed a brighter  outlook since the last Beige Book. Manufacturers 
anticipate rising  shipments and orders during the next six months. R etailers expect slightly 
stronger sales, and auto dealers are increasingly co nfident that  the current surge in sales will 
carry into the spring selling season. B anking, real estate, and service -sector firms continue to 
plan for slow growth in 2012. In general, contacts seemed to prefer talking about  recent positive 
trends rather th an reiterating  their uncertainty. However, their concerns continue to include  the 
ongoing slow  housing recovery, Europe’s economic problems , and federal budget  indecisions .  
 
Manufacturing.   Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have report ed 
further in creases  in new orders and shipments . Gains were widespread among the makers of food 
products, lumber and wood products, primary metals, instruments, and electronic equipment. A  
supplier to the broad industrial market stated that demand accelerated over the past several months and that the production capacity of many manufacturing clients wa s picking up. Contacts 
also reported that work was returning from overseas and that foundries were reaching capacity. The primary metals sector reporte d strong demand from the automotive and heavy equipment 
sectors. Among the makers of instruments and of electrical machinery , some contacts indicated 
that the level of demand seen recently has been the highest  since near the beginning of the 
recession.  Even the housing sector contributed to slight upticks in demand, according to contacts 
from two firms that produce housing -related products.  
III - 2 
About nine out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect  business conditions to improve 
or stay the same during the next six months ; most expect their business to increase.  This 
optimism permeates  nearly every  broad manufacturing sector. Increasingly, our contacts cite 
signs of stronger economic growth, although some of the expected increase reflects  seasonal 
trends . Risks from Europe’s problems and constraints from a weak housing market continued to 
add uncertainty to the outlook, according to some contacts. Expectations of c apital spending and 
future hiring have strengthened since the last Beige Book .  
 
Retail.   Third District retailers reported little drop -off from the holiday shopping season 
— maintaining steady year -over-year sales increases. One industry contact reported better than 
normal sales for January; another reported perceptible, gradual improvement. All contacts 
conceded that the mild winter weather may have increased activity, although sales of winter clothes and gear have suffered.  Price competition remains tough and shoppers are still very 
budget conscious, according to some contacts. Overall, retail contacts were a bit more optimistic but remain cautious.  
Auto sales strengthened further in January and February , especially for  Pennsylvania 
dealers . New Jersey dealers had a stronger December , which may have pulled sales forwar d from 
January ; this was in part due to  financial -sector workers spending their year-end bonuses. The 
outlook for auto sales remains very strong. I ndustry contact s indicated that some larger dealers 
have begun hiring, mostly in sales. More hiring is expect ed if robust sales continue into  the 
spring season.  
 
Finance.   Overall , loan volumes were flat to up  slightly in the Third District since the 
previous Beige Book. The issuance of h ome equity lines and home mortgages , including  
refinancing, increased the most, although some contacts were unwilling to write 30 -year 
mortgages at the current low rates. Commercial real estate and C&I lending remained flat. Banking contacts reported low demand for some lines and early paydowns  in others. Overall, 
credit quality  continue d to improve. One financial contact reported that the pace of loans going 
into delinquency has slowed, although the rate being resolved by foreclosure or workout remained flat.   
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential build ers reported strong activity and sales in 
January and early February. One Pennsylvania builder said it was the strongest January in several years. A New Jersey builder closed deals that had been initiated in November and then 
III - 3 
dragged through December ; the builder also  reports  a good backlog of sales. The mild winter 
weather helped with production and may have boosted traffic. Contacts cited a more active  resale 
market as a positive trend but expressed concern over higher gas prices and increased 
compliance costs in the mortgag e market. A residential broker also reported a stronger January 
than last year. Builders reported hiring some  sales staff. The outlook among builders and brokers 
is modestly more positive. However, a broker cautioned  that increased sales activity will first 
spur the shadow inventory to emerge and add to the  active inventory, before the active inventory 
can begin to shrink.  
Brokers and managers of nonresidential real estate have reported generally improving 
conditions for industrial, retail, and office space since the last Beige Book. The industrial market 
remains strong , and gains are spreading to the weaker South Jersey market area. High -end and 
low-end retail markets are especially strong.  Mid -value retail , including grocer y stores , which 
often locate in  community shopping centers and street retail  properties , is struggling, producing 
higher vacancies. Office market contacts reported that signs of pent -up demand are emerging that 
will lead to positive net absorption by year’s end. The overall outlook f or nonresidential real 
estate has improved since the last Beige Book, but growth will remain modest. 
 
Services .  Third District service -sector firms generally have reported further growth since 
the last Beige Book. A logistics firm reported very strong year -over-year results through the first 
six weeks of 2012. Despite some expressed concerns, the contact is hopeful that this  strong pace 
is maintained or improves when “freight season” begins in March. Though somewhat  skeptical 
of the sudden surge in  confidence and market enthusiasm, one contact quipped, “I won ’t fight the 
tide!” Advertising  dollars are expected to build through the year with the Olympics and the 
presidential election.  One staffing firm reported a surprising dip in new orders compared with 
last year and a shift to short -term orders that are not indicative of growth. The majority of 
service- sector firms anticipate growth will steadily improve in  2012.  
 
Prices and Wages.   Price levels have remain ed cont ained  since the previous Beige Book. 
Auto dealers and freight shippers still command favorable pricing power. Price pressures are 
mixed among m anufacturing firms , with some firms unable to pass their higher costs along. 
Retailers and homebuilders continue to report tight margins. Wages are reported to be flat, and some firms have substituted lower cost temporary contract workers to reduce their overall wage bill. House prices are expected to fall further ; however, nonresidential rents are stabilizing and 
concessions are scarce r.  
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
The economy  in the Fourth District grew  at a moderate pace during the past six weeks .  
Manufacturers  reported  that business conditions  have improved.  Activity in residential and  
nonresidential construction picked up slightly .  Comments by retailer s about January sales were 
mixed , while auto sales dipped along seasonal trends .  Activity in s hale gas drilling and 
production expanded .  Freight tran sport volume  trended higher .  And the d emand  for business 
and cons umer credit improved slightly . 
Our contacts  indicated that h iring  by manufacturers and energy producers has increased , 
though the recruitment  of high -skilled workers  remains  difficult.   Reports from s taffing-firm 
representatives  tended  toward the negative .  Two of our  contacts noted a slight decline in the 
number of permanent job openings, whi le others observed a small drop  in the number of 
placements.  Wage pressures were largely  contained.   Price increases were mainly  limited to 
metals and to  materials and equipment used by energy producers and freight carriers.  
Manufacturing.  New orders and production at District factories  were generally  stable or 
moderately higher during the past six weeks .  A few  manufacturers  told us  that growth was  being  
tempered by  lessening demand from European customers.  T he majority of our contacts  saw a 
moderate improvement in output  compared to year -ago le vels.  Manufacturers are cautious in 
their outlook and anticipate  modest gains in demand.  Most s teel producers and service centers 
reported  that shipping volume was  trending slightly higher.  Demand  is being driven  by the oil 
and gas, transportation, and industrial  equipment  industries .  Steel rep resentatives  are cautiously 
optimistic about shipments during the second quarter of 2012, an d they  expect  the positive 
growth trend to continue .  District auto production showed a substantial rise  during January  on a 
month- over-month and year -over-year basis.  Increases were attributed, in part, to the abatement 
of supply chain issues.   
Capacity utilization  remain s below normal  for the  majority of our contacts, with little 
change expected in the near term.   A few manufacturers  said that they have been building 
inventories to meet  approaching  seasonal demand ; otherwise, inventories were  balanced  with 
orders .  Nearly half of our contacts  reported that their capital budgets for 2012 will be higher 
than in 2011.  A slight rise in raw material prices  was noted —especially for metals, with 
increases being  passed through to customers.  New hiri ng by manufactur ers has become more 
widespread, though the  average number of  hires  per company is  fairly low.  Those adding to 
payrolls found it  difficult to recruit professional and high- skilled  production  workers .  Wage 
pressures  are contained .     
Construction .   The uptick we saw in single -family home construction toward  the end of 
last year has abated  somewhat .  Nonetheless, builders reported that January sales were above 
year-ago levels and traffic and inquiries have picked up.  S ales contracts  were mainly in the 
IV - 2  
move -up price -point categories.  Builders ’ outlook for single -family construction can  best be 
described as uncertain.   In contrast, a ctivity in multi- family construction  and the conversion of  
existing properties to rental units  is expected to be strong.  One of our contacts noted a 
significant upturn in remodeling and maintenance.  Little movement was seen in the list prices  or 
discounting of new homes .  A few builders commented that they would like to increase their 
spec inventory, but they are unable to obtain financing.  Employment and wages were stable.     
Activity in nonresidential construction for small  to medium -size contractors  has 
improved during the past few weeks .  Inquiries have shown a modest increase , and backlogs are 
starting to grow.   Construction contracts were primarily with industrial and retail customers.   
One contact described pockets of  significant  activity in large commercial construction projects 
across the District, noting particular strength in northeast Ohio.  The outlook by small to 
medium -size builders has brightened since our last report.  One contractor  observed that while  
business is slowly returning to pre -2008 levels, profit margins are still very tight compared with 
this point in pa st recoveries.   Other than rising prices for steel and drywall, the cost of building  
material s was steady .  We heard two  reports about  project  financing being easier to obtain.   
Payrolls  were little changed, but  they  are expected to rise sli ghtly in the near future.    
Consumer Spending .  Reports on January retail sales were mixed.  According to  several 
of our contacts , the warm winter weather is negatively  impacting  purchases  of seasonal 
merchandise.  However,  products used outdoors , such as sporting goods , are selling better than 
expected.   Sales for the first quarter of 2012 are  generally  expect ed to improve over  prior -year 
level s, mainly in the low - to mid-single digits.   Looking at vendor pricing, reports were also 
mixed.   Retailers told us  that lower costs attributable to declining cotton prices were offset by a 
rise in overseas labor costs.  Retailers  are satisfied  with their inventories except for cold- weather 
apparel, which is  higher than desired.  Capital budgets for 2012 will be slightly gr eater  than in 
2011 for a majority of our contacts.  O utlays  will be  used  mainly for  tech nology enhancements , 
remodeling, and new store construction.  Payrolls at existing stores were stable.    
Auto dealers  reported  a slowdown in new -vehicle sales during January  that followed  
normal seasonal trends .  On a year -over-year basis, sales  were somewhat higher .  A few dealers 
noted that their inventories are now  on the high side  but are manageable; o thers said that 
inventories are light .  The outlook for 2012 was  generally  optimistic.  H owever,  several of our 
contacts were uncertain  about whether or  not the sales increases seen during  2011 would be 
repeated this year.   Purchases of used vehicles  show ed a modest improvement, but inventories 
were low and prices  elevated.   On the financing side, interest rates remain competitive , and  at the 
same time  it is difficult to arrange financing for customers with low credit scores .  Auto  dealers 
looking  to hire  report ed that it is not easy  to find qualified candida tes, especially sales 
representatives  and service technicians.   
IV - 3  
Banking.   Demand for business  credit  was described  as either stable or  slightly  higher .  
Any drop -off was attributed to seasonal factors.   Requests are being  driven by  commer cial real 
estate, including spec building , and healthcare.  On the consumer side, most of  our contacts  said 
that installment loan activity is flat, although  auto lending (direct and indirect) continued to show  
strength.  A few  bankers reported  a decline in  the use of credit  cards or  home equity lines of 
credit during January .  Some stabilization  in interest rates  for business and consumer credit  was 
observed.  In the residential mortgage market, real estate appraisals remain on the conservative 
side, and  a majority of  applicants are looking to refinance.  No changes were made to loan 
application standar ds.  Delinquencies wer e steady or declined across  loan categories.   Overall 
core deposits  grew , with continued runoff from CDs into more liquid assets.  Payrolls were 
stable, and  little hiring  is expected  in the  near term.   
Energy.   Conventional  oil and natural gas  drilling and production were generally flat  
since our last report , with l ittle change expected in the upcoming week s.  Our contacts  attributed  
these conditions  to eroding  natural gas  prices  and the regulatory environment.  Well -head prices 
for oil were mainly steady .  We heard two reports of energy companies redeploying drilling 
resources from dry gas to the wet gas areas of the Marcellus  shale in Pennsylvania a nd West 
Virginia.   The Ohio Dep artment of Natural Resources  has issued 32 Utica shale d rilling permits 
since January 1 and 39 Utica wells are currently being drilled  in Ohio.  The outlook for coal 
production during 2012 is similar to 2011 levels.  However, output may decline due t o lessening 
demand from  electric utility companies and offshore markets.  Spot prices for  metallurgical and 
steam coal s continue d to decline .  Almost all of our contacts reported  upward pressure on the 
cost of  production equipment and materials .  Energy payrolls are trending higher, especially in 
shale gas .  A few small oil and gas producers are experiencing  wag e pressures brought on by 
competition fro m large firms  engaged in shale gas exploration and production.   
Transportation.  F reight transport volume  has been trending higher dur ing the past few 
weeks, and for the month of  January  it was above year -ago levels .  Stron g demand was seen 
from  automotive , food, and shale gas producers .  Our contacts expect volume to grow  at a 
moderate pace during 2012.  We  continued to hear numerous reports about  rising prices for parts , 
diesel fuel , and other materials.  Most  of the  cost increases were  recovered via fuel surcharges 
and ra te adjustments when contracts ca me due.  Capital outlays  reached targeted levels  for 2011.  
Almost all of our contacts expect to increase their capital budgets during  2012 over prior year 
amounts  for fleet expansion , replacing  aging equipment, and infrastructure improvements.  One 
executive noted that  his capital budget  for 2012 will be at  a pre -recession level .  Operators  
reported hiring for driver replacement  or adding capacity, although  recruiting qualified drivers is  
difficult.  Some wage pressure  exist s due to a tightening of the driver pool . 
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT –RICHMOND  
Overview.   District economic conditions  improved in  most  sectors since our last report.  
Manufacturing  activity  expanded further in January and early  February . Retail sales picked up and 
shopper traffic moved higher. R evenue growth a t services- providing firms  slow ed, while m ost touri sm 
businesses continued to post moderate gains . Likewise, b anke rs reported that le nding to both residential 
and commercial customers increased slightly, al though the level of demand remained  low. Both 
residential and commercial real estate contacts ci ted moderate  gains in sales and leasing activity during 
the last six weeks, even though the overall level of demand was weak . District employment improved 
somewhat , but both manufacturers and professional servi ces firms continued to report problems finding 
qualified workers.  Both  manufacturing and services prices received  were up only mod erately  from our 
last report , while  price s paid moved significantly higher.   
Manufacturing . District manufacturing activity ad vanced further in recent weeks.  An automotive  
parts manufacturer reported that sales remained strong , and the recent strength  of sales  had driven an 
increase in  his capital spending  for equipment. A textile producer saw a general pick up across all section s 
of his business. He added that his supply of raw materials was tight , due to the low levels of his supplie rs’ 
inventories at the end of the year. Similarly, an electrical components manufacturer described business as 
still reeling from the spillover effe cts of the flooding in Thailand ; he stated that his backlog of orders was 
large because his suppliers were unable to fill his orders. A  furniture manufacturer cited improvement in 
the past few months , noting that his business usually  picks up with rising  consumer confidence . 
Moreover , a fabricated metal producer  indicated  that business was strong , with January orders and 
shipments increasing by double -digit rates over December  levels. A ccording to our recent survey , raw 
material s prices grew moderately from  a month ago, while  finished goods prices grew at a slightly 
quicker rate  than a month earlier .  
Retail . Retail sales rose and shopper traffic increased  in recent weeks. Big -ticket sales were 
generally flat, however, according to most contacts. Auto dealer s in South Carolina and Maryland 
experienced a slowdown in sales since our last report. In contrast, a car dealer near Washington, D.C. said  
that his establishment was hiring more sales associates to handle the increase in customer traffic and 
sales. Store  managers at big box department stores across the District indicated  that sales were steady or 
slightly stronger, and remarked that television sales blipped up just before the Super Bowl. However, the 
warm winter resulted in mark -downs on a large quantity of winter apparel. A central North Carolina store 
manager reported that spring and summer apparel had arrived , but the lingering stock of winter clothing 
had left little room on the floor for new merchandise. According to our recent survey, home and garden 
retailers reported a pick -up in sales, as did department store wholesalers. Retail prices continued to rise at 
a moderate pace since our last report.  
 V-2  
Services.  Revenues grew a bit more slowly overall at services- providing firms over  the last  
month. Contac ts at professional, scientific, and technical businesses gave us somewhat mixed reports. 
However, an executive at a brokerage firm thought  that account statements were “looking better .” 
Recruiters in the Carolinas reported increased demand for permanent em ployees, particularly “technical 
talent.” An executive at a nationwide trucking firm stated that freight demand increased over the last 
month. Finally, a  North Carolina hospital contact reported a major increase in capital spending to meet 
new healthcare r eform requirements. Prices a t services firms moved up at a restrained pace.  
Finance. Lending to both residential and commercial customers increased marginally across the 
District over the last six weeks. However, the level of demand for loans was often described as weak, and 
several bankers were still reporting little change since the end of last year. While most mortgage 
applications continued to be for refinancing, loan officers around the District reported a slight increase f or 
home purchases . Also, the average size  of loans increased . One banker in Richmond stated that investors, 
taking advantage of low prices and interest rates, were a key source of such mortgage lending  in his 
market. An official for a large bank  also stated that his bank remained very  cautious about any consumer 
loan application, especially for purchasing a  home. On the commercial side, several bankers extended 
more merger and acquisition loans. A loan officer for a regional bank s aid that his bank had increased its 
lending for new equ ipment as well as for refinancing. A Virginia bank er reported a slight uptick in 
lending for inventory. However, other bankers stated that loan demand in those categories  was flat. While 
most construction loans other than for multi -family buildings remained limited, several bankers reported 
an increase in loans for owner -occupied facilities and their furnishings (mostly to medical professionals). 
Credit standards remained tight, but most bankers reported that their lending targets were  increas ing this 
year, even though competition for quality loans was intense.  
  Real Estate . Residential real estate activity showed modest  improvement  since our last report . 
Indeed, some contacts suggest ed that the sector had mov ed beyond the bottoming- out phase. For example, 
lower inventor y of both new and existing homes w as reported in the D.C. and Richmond areas, with some 
builders beginning to sell and even build again. A  source from North Carolina said that a housing 
development was successful due to a “rent -to-own” plan. He added that  new construction activity was 
also starting to occur in the Research Triangle area. While most  Realtors reported that sales were either 
flat or up slightly , housing prices generally continued to decline. Several  agents attributed the drop in 
sales prices, in part, to short or distressed sales being used as comparables.  They  noted, however,  that 
many buyers were avoiding  short sales and foreclos ed homes  due to often a  six to eight  month delay  in 
closings . Most Realtors cited sales in the low -price range as faring better than sales in the high -price 
range. An exception, however, was an agent in the D.C. area , who said that home sales over  $1,250,000 
were outperforming all other price ranges. He added that he was starting to receive multiple offer s that 
were well  above listing prices , and he expected this trend to continue through the spring  selling season .  
 V-3  
Commercial real estate activity improved slightly since our last report, especially for office space. 
A Realtor in the D.C. area reported that  he ha d been very busy since the start of this year, but mostly with 
inquiries that ha d yet to turn into closed deals. He added that so far this year government -related activity 
was down. A Virginia real estate agent noted that while office building purcha ses remained weak, some 
clients had increased their leasing in hopes of purchasing at a later time. While office rents have stabilized 
in most areas of the District, many agents report ed that concessions remained widespread. One Realtor 
said that, in order  to retain struggling tenants, he ha d been making repairs and upgrades that would 
normally be left to the tenant. Retail leasing activity remained mixed, with one agent reporting that anchor 
stores at large malls were stable, but small  boutiques in the sam e malls were having difficulty meet ing 
their rent and some were closing. On the industrial side, data processing and distribution centers were a 
positive  source of leasing activity, according to several agents around the District. While industrial 
demand g enerally remained weak , several contacts reported some improvement  since the start of the year. 
An architectural firm reported an increase in demand related to site development , suggesting that 
industrial clients might be planning construction starts later  this year .   
Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity were somewhat more upbeat  than in our 
last report . Several employment agencies stated that demand for temporary workers had increased and 
those contacts were optimistic about future demand. A Baltimore agent noted that the demand for temp worker s had  definitely increased , and his company was experiencing a  pickup in recruitment demand  for 
skilled and semi -skilled jobs  in the manufacturing and distribution sectors . He added that  the agency was 
beginning to see some upward pressure on wages for manufacturing and distribution center skills , as 
finding qualified workers remained  difficult. A representative at a Richmond staffing agency reported that 
employers were starting to complain that they were not getting enough qualified applicants. He noted that 
even with growth in postings, matching of openings with qualified people continued to be  challenging . 
According to our latest survey , District manufacturing employment improved over the last month, while 
wage  gains  were slightly lower than  a month ago. Both r etail and  non- retail services employment  picked 
up in recent weeks, while  the pace of average wages  in the service sector overall increased moderately . 
Tourism.  Tourism remained generally strong , with some contacts reporting further strengthening 
in recent weeks. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina reported a good start to the year and strong vacation house rentals, with weekend travel up as a result of good weather. Businesses in that 
region expect a good tourism season ahead, supported by such scheduled events as music festivals, bike 
races, and marathons. A hotel g eneral m anager in the mountains of North Carolina, where weather was 
also mild this winter, noted an increase in bookings, and he expect ed modest growth to continue through 
the summer season. Elsewhere, several ski resorts have been adversely affected by the mild Mid -Atlantic 
winter, and a resort in western Virginia will cut jobs to reduce costs, according to an executive.  
 V-4  
Agriculture.  Unseasonably mild temperatures, coupled with below -normal precipitation held 
back crop yields in some  areas of  the District. I n North Carolina , tobacco and cotton yields  reached only 
50% of historical averages as a result of damage  caused by sev ere weather last summer . In South 
Carolina, dry weather late in the season significantly reduced what was previously expected to be an 
outstanding cotton crop. Moreover, results of our recent agricultural credit survey indicated that farmland 
values were s lightly below the previous quarter and year -ago levels. In contrast, ample amounts of rain 
throughout Virginia , combined w ith above -normal temperatures , result ed in above -average yields and 
near-record commodity prices  for most grain producers . An a nalyst in t he Commonwealth  described 2011 
as a solidly profitable year for most grain producers due to increased export demand.  
VI-1 
 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA  
Summary .  Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as expanding at a 
somewhat stronger pace in January and early February compared with late last year . Expectations were 
generally more positive , although firms continued to express caution with regard to t he outlook.  
Retailers noted that sales and traffic increased compared with a year ago and auto sales remain ed 
robust.  Hospitality contacts, with the exception of cruise lines, reported strong bookings for this year.  
Homebuilders and brokers reported that unseasonably warm weather has helped bolster residential real 
estate activity by pulling some activity forward. Nonetheless, overall home sales and construction levels 
remained weak apart from  the generally robust multifamily sector. Manufacturers and transportation 
contacts cont inued to note positive activity on balance.  Bankers report ed a modest improvement in loan 
activity  at larger institutions .  More firms reported increased hiring, altho ugh contacts continued to 
signal they approached hiring decisions very cautiously. C oncerns over increased input costs generally 
eased as most firms reported that input prices leveled off. Only a f ew contacts reported having 
significant pri cing power.  
Cons umer Spending and Tourism .  District retail contacts noted that sales and traffic in 
January and early February were up from a year ago. Final h oliday sales reports were generally positive  
as slightly over half  of our retail contacts  indicated that sales were better than l ast year. Roughly half 
noted that inventory levels were up slightly compared with last month, and most were satisfied  with  
current levels. Most merchants expect overall sales to improve over the next three months. Re tailers also  
expect overall sales to improve modest ly over the course of 2012. Auto dealers  noted that the warm 
weather experienced in January likely boosted sales for the month, and they  anticipate  new vehicle sales 
to continue to improve.  
Hospitality co ntacts reported that tourism activity remained strong and m ost were optimistic 
regarding the outlook for leisure and hospitality spending in 2012. A ttendance for major conventions 
increased  and booking s and lead volume rose, according to business travel contacts. However, t here 
were concerns about higher fuel costs and the adverse impact it may have on drive- to traffic at regional 
tourist destinations . Cruise  line bookings have suffered in the wake of the maritime disaster in Italy.  
Real Estate and Construction .  The majority of District residential brokers reported that home 
sales accelerated in January and early February  and stand above level s from the same time period last 
year. However, reports from Florida brokers were more mixed. Contacts noted  that inventory levels  
continued to decline on year -over-year basis and home prices were nearly even with a year  ago.  The 
VI-2 
 
outlook among brokers for sal es growth continued to improve with most anticipating  modest year -over-
year gains over the next several months.   
Most District homebuilders indicated that new home sales and construction activity growth, 
measured year -over-year, increased slightly during January and early February; however, several 
contacts noted that unseasonably warm weather in the region likely pulled some activity forward.  
Builders continued to report downward pressure on home prices while new home inventories remained 
below year -earlier levels. Contacts noted that multifamily construction remained robust. Over the next 
several months, homebuilders anticipate new home sales and construction to  be flat to slightly up 
compared with a year earlier.  
Most commercial real estate contacts indicated that conditions continued to improve slowly in 
the region.  Contractors noted a slight improvement in demand but the market remained very 
competitive and activity remained at low levels.  Brokers continued to report modest improvements in 
demand for space in several parts of the District with some noting that rent concessions had abated. The  
outlook among contacts was similar to our last report with most contractors and commercial real estate brokers anticipating that construction activity will improve slowly during 2012. 
Manufacturing and Transportation . Manufacturers across the region  noted more positive  
results in January and early February compared with previous reports. In particular , firms reported  
increased levels of new orders along with improved expectations for future orders. Most c ontacts  also 
signaled that inventory levels have ris en in line with these improved order expectations. Three major 
auto manufacturers announced plans to increase production at their facilities in Alabama and Georgia, and a foreign automaker also noted that a parts manufacturing facility will relocate to  the Sixth District.  
Transportation contacts reported that inventory -building tren ds appear ed to be similar to the end 
of last year .  A freight forwarding company noted that orders we re stable  and a large railroad firm 
continued to report strong increases in auto  shipments . Coal inventory levels declined at the end of last 
year, but in recent months have exceeded  targeted levels as mild weather and low natural gas prices 
dampened demand for coal -fired electricity  generation. Contacts noted that both imports and exports 
have leveled off since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2011, al though trade wi th Latin America 
continued to experience  modest growth.   
Banking and Finance .  Liquidity levels remained high at regional banks  as most continued to 
experience high deposit balances and soft loan demand. Several large banks noted some growth in 
outstanding C&I loans ; in part , a result of loan acquisitions from other institutions and continued growth 
VI-3 
 
in areas such as  energy and healthcare. Bankers  also reported increased  consumer lendi ng attributed 
mainly to  auto financing . Contacts remain cautious regarding the economic environment and most are 
forecasting low  loan growth in 2012, but do not expect further deteriorat ion in capital levels.  
Employment and Prices . Firms indicated that hiring expectations going into 2012 are better 
than they had been going into 2011. However, many contacts noted that plans to increase profits still 
revolve d around further efficiency gains  from improvements in internal operations. Several businesses 
reported  plans to increase payrolls because they expect an improvement in sales going forward. They 
appear ed to have regained their customer base, and these expectations seem to be trans mitting  into plans 
for expansion. Some firms still indicated a preference for contract workers for short -term projects, but 
several expressed increased w illingness to consider them for permanent positions. Aside from optimism 
about future sales, some contacts als o reasoned that their current employees do not always possess the 
necessary skills, leaving firms with no choice but to hire new workers.  
Concerns over increased input costs eased further , although several manufacturing firms did note 
an increase in commod ity prices since the last report . Few contacts reported having significant pri cing 
power. According to the  firms surveyed in the Atlanta Fed’s January Business Inflation Expectations 
(BIE) survey, unit cost s were expect ed to rise 1.8 percent for the year a head, down slightly from 
December expectations. Firms continue to operate in an environment of below normal sales and depressed margins, according to the survey, though both have been slowly improving since October  of 
last year .    
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  C ontacts in the energy exploration sector noted that 
recent lease auctions have helped stimulate more industry optimism, contributing to an improvement in investment conditions. Regional gasoline inventories remained  above their seasonal norm s for this time 
of year as national and global gasoline consumption remain relatively soft, al though contacts report ed 
ongoing concern about the impact of geopolitical uncertainty in some OPEC countries  on energy prices 
going forward . 
Significant rains hav e eased drought conditions in parts of Alabama , Mississippi , and Louisiana, 
while parts of Georgia and Florida have seen drought conditions worsen.  Mild temperatures throughout the region are of concern to peach and other fruit crop growers hoping for ade quate conditions  for the 
current growing season.  On a year-over-year basis, prices received by farmers were higher for many of 
the region’s a gricultural  products . Contacts report ed that some farmers in Alabama and Georgia we re 
reviewing their  planting plans in light of their concerns of labor shortages.   
 
 VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT —CHICAGO   
Summary .  Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to expand at a moderate 
pace in January and early February . Growth in c onsumer  spending slowed, but business spending 
increased . Manufacturing production increased , and c onstruction, while still subdued, was also up . 
Credit conditions  improved. P rice increases slowed, while wage increases remained moderate. 
Prices for corn, soybeans, wheat, hogs, and cattle moved higher , while milk prices drifted lower.  
Consumer spending .  Growth in c onsumer spending  slowed in January and early February. 
Contacts indicated that  activity was  boosted by clearance sales  and noted an increase in consumers 
turning to discount retailers. There was also s ome isolated  improvement  in the  luxury segment , with 
jewelers and high -end boutiques reporting higher sales. However, t he mild winter  depressed  sales of 
apparel and other weather -related  items, and contacts noted that many  retailers  were  running heavy 
promotions on unsold wint er merchandise to make room for spring inventory. Auto sales were up in 
January , but down slightly in early February  reflecting in part a decline in incentives .  
Business spending.   Business spending increased  in January and early February. Most 
retailers indicated th eir inventories were at comfortable levels . However, a number of auto dealers 
continued to report lower than desired levels  for some models . Several manufacturers  also noted 
that they were tightly  managing their input inventory levels to avoid being  caught off -guard were 
commodity prices to decline further or activity slow substantially from the pace of the fourth 
quarter . Capital spending increased , with reports of capacity expan sions in manufacturing  and 
renovations of existing facilities in the retail  sector . Labor market conditions improved, although 
hiring remai ned selective . A staffing firm reported an i ncrease in  growth in billable hours that was 
largely driven by  gains in industrial and office positions. Contacts indicated that many 
manuf acturers were increasingly moving away from contracting with t emporary agencies to direct 
hiring, focusing on higher skilled positions where attracting job candidates has remained difficult. 
Long -term unemployment remained elevated . Labor market analysts r eported that it was becoming 
increasingly difficult for these worker s to find a job, and several contacts indicated that they were 
hesitant to hire individuals who had been out of work for an extended period of time . 
Construction/real estate.  Construction activity was up slightly in January and early 
February. Multi -family construction continued to be an area of strength. In contrast, single -family  
construction remained weak , and homebuilders indicated that it will likely continue to be until h ome 
prices stabilize from their recent declines. Nonresidential construction continued to trend up 
 
 VII-2 
moderately, although a contact noted a decline in funding for new public infrastructure. D emand for 
industrial facilities  increased , especially in the automo tive sector as suppliers are expand ing to meet 
the higher pace of vehicle production. Commercial real estate conditions continued to improve with 
vacancy rates edging lower  from their elevated levels. The d emand for office space picked up and 
rents increas ed. In contrast, contacts continue d to report excess  availab ility of retail space.  
Manufacturing .  After a strong close to 2011, m anufacturing production increase d further 
in January and early February . Contacts in the sector remained  cautiously optimistic about  2012. 
Exporters continued to benefit from advantageous terms of trade, and contacts noted an increase in 
interest by foreign manufacturers in moving  production to  the U.S. as well as  increasing  utiliz ation 
of domestic suppliers . The  auto industry continued to be a source of strength. Contacts expected that 
auto sales in 2012 would hold near the pace seen in January, which, while still below pre -recession 
levels, would mark another year of recovery for the industry. Demand for heavy equipment also remained strong, led by robust activity in the energy and mining sector . An aging fleet  of heavy 
trucks and machinery  and tightening emission standards  for such equipment were noted as reasons 
for the likely continued strength in demand in 2012. Manufacturers of specialty metals a lso reported 
solid order books and robust quoting activity. Outside of these industries , however, activity was  
again weaker. M anufacturers of household goods and building materials continued to experience 
soft demand, although a few noted a small improvement since the beginning of the year.   
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions were slightly improved from the previous reporting 
period. Financial market volatility declined and risk premia moved lower across a number of asset 
classes. Improvements i n the availability of credit were noted for both subprime auto lending and 
commercial real estate, particularly for large apartment buildings . Banking contacts indicated that 
loan growth continued at a moderate  pace with demand from larger businesses being stronger than 
that from small to mid -sized companies.  Even though contacts thought the economic outlook was 
more positive , they indicated that borrowers and investors remain  cautious , citing u ncertainty about 
future tax code changes  and risks abroad, in particular those emanating from Europe . That said, 
concern s about Europe  were reported  to have become milder  in recent weeks .   
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures were largely unchanged  in January and early February, but the 
volatility of commodity prices remained a concern for many  contacts. Natural gas prices remained 
at historic lows,  while  prices increased  for fuel and  metals such as copper and brass. Raw materials 
surcharges declined and l ead times shortened with a few exceptions such as carbide and some 
hydraulic products . Whole sale price changes were mixed by category, but little changed on balance. 
 
 VII-3 
Most of the cost increases were being passed on to consumers , but retail ers reporte d that, overall, 
pricing power remained limited . Wage pressures continued to be  moderate, with most contacts 
indicating that wage increases were expected to  keep pace with inflation. Contacts continued to 
report a shortage of skilled manufacturing workers, and noted that increased competition among 
firms had led to some upward pressure on their  wages.  
Agriculture.  Corn, soybean, wheat, hog, and cattle prices rose during January and early 
February. Input costs for agriculture continued to increase, led by sharply higher rental rates for 
cropland. The increases in these costs have pressured farmers’ margins. In order to offset the risks 
of price declines or poor harvests, farmers have been willing to spend more on revenue insurance 
policies. Estimates of cor n stocks have come down and are below where they were a year ago. 
Given current rates of use, the expected supply of corn in stock just before the next harvest is around three weeks, about as tight as last year. Cattle operations are working to build herd sizes, 
even though bid prices for cattle are very high. Contacts expected farmers to boost their capital 
expenditures in 2012 compared with 2011.  
 VIII- 1 
Eighth District -  St. Louis  
Summary  
Economic activity in the Eighth District has continued to expand at a modest pace since the 
previous survey. Manufacturing activity has continued to increase, and activity in the services sector has 
also increased. Residential real estate activity has continued to decline, while commercial real estate market conditions have been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of large District banks saw little change during the fourth quarter of 2011.  
Consumer Spending  
Contacts r eported that retail sales in January and early February were up slightly, on average, 
over year -earlier levels. Half of the retailers saw increases in sales, while 37 percent saw decreases and 13 
percent saw no changes. Roughly 71 percent of the retailers reported that sales levels met their 
expectations, 17 percent reported that sales were below expectations, and 12 percent reported that sales were above expectations. About 21 percent of the retailers reported that their inventories were too high, while 12 percent reported that their inventories were too low. The sales outlook for March and April  was 
mostly optimistic: 65 percent of the retailers expect sales to increase over 2011 levels, while 13 percent expect sales to decrease and 22 percent expect sales to be similar to last year's sales.  
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in January and early February were up slightly, on 
average, compared with last year's sales. About 48 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in 
sales, while 32 percent saw decreases and 20 percent saw no changes. Twenty -eight percent of the car 
dealers reported that used car sales had increased relative to new car sales, while 24 percent reported the opposite. Thirty- two percent of contacts reported an increase i n sales of low -end vehicles relative to high -
end vehicles, while 8 percent reported the opposite. Thirty- two percent of the car dealers surveyed 
reported that their inventories were too low, while 24 percent reported that their inventories were too 
high. T he sales outlook for March and April was mostly optimistic: 76 percent of the car dealers expect 
sales to increase over 2011 levels, while just 4 percent expect sales to decrease and 20 percent expect 
sales to be similar to last year's sales.  
 VIII- 2 
Manufacturing  and Other Business Activity  
Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since our previous report. Several manufacturers 
reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a smaller number of contacts 
reported plans to clos e plants or decrease operations. Firms in the furniture, automobile, food, stone 
product, air conditioning component, and medical device manufacturing industries announced plans to 
increase existing operations and hire new workers. Additionally, firms in t he automobile parts and 
primary metal manufacturing industries announced plans to open new plants and hire workers. In contrast, firms in the faucet, chemical, paper product , and lawn mower manufacturing industries announced plans 
to close plants and lay off workers.  
Activity in the District's services sector has continued to increase since our previous report. Firms 
in information technology services, pest control services, distribution services, health services, and leisure services announced plans to exp and operations and hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in freight 
transportation services, education services, government services, and business support services announced plans to decrease operations and lay off workers.  
Real Estate and Construction  
Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth District. Compared with 2010, 
total 2011 home sales were down 2 percent in Memphis, 3 percent in St.  Louis , 4 percent in Louisville, 
and 6 percent in Little Rock.  Residential construction also c ontinued to decrease throughout the District. 
Total 2011 single -family housing permits decreased in the majority of the District metro areas compared 
with 2010. Permits decreased 15 percent in Louisville, 20 percent in Little Rock , and 21 percent in 
St. Louis . However, permits increased 1 percent in Memphis. 
Commercial and i ndustrial real estate conditions were  mixed throughout the Eighth District. 
Contacts in Memphis reported weak commercial real estate loan demand but  stable industrial real estate 
activity. Contacts in Louisville reported that commercial real estate activity has increased since December 
2011 while contacts in St. Louis  noted an increase in fourth -quarter 2011 office and industrial vacancy 
rates compared with  the third quarter of 2011. Commercial and industrial construction also varied 
 VIII- 3 
throughout the District. Contacts in south central Kentucky noted that commercial construction is 
showing improved activity with recent business additions and relocations in the region. Contacts in 
western Kentucky, however, noted that construction projects are very scarce , with the exception of 
Owensboro- Daviess County, which has a significant number of public and private projects underway. 
Contacts in northwest  Arkansas noted an increase in commercial b uilding construction in the Bentonville 
area,  while contacts in Little Rock continued to report over all weak construction activity.  
Banking and Finance  
A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks showed  little change in overall 
lending activity duri ng the fourth quarter of 2011. During this period, credit standards and demand for 
commercial and indust rial loans remained unchanged. Credit standards for commercial real estate loans 
also remained unchanged. Demand for these loans range d from unc hanged to moderately stronger. 
Meanwhile, credit standards for consumer loans remained unchanged, while demand ranged from modera tely weaker to about the same. Credit standards for prime residential mortgage loans ranged from 
unchanged to somewha t eased, while demand for these loans ranged from about the same to moderately 
stronger. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
Yields for corn, sorghum, hay, soybeans , and cot ton were lower in 2011 compared with 2010, 
while yields for winter wheat, rice , and tobacco showed positive gains.  Monthly output of c ommercial red 
meat for December 2011 decreased compared with November 2011;  the District’s total live weight and  
number of chickens slaughtered also decreased during the same period. The District’s coa l production for 
January 2012 was 1 percent lower compared with January 2011. Similarly, as of early February , year-to-
date coal production was 4.2 percent lower than the same period in 2011.  
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT --MINNEAPOLIS  
The Ninth District economy grew at a firm pace since the last report. Strength was noted in 
consumer spending, professional services firms, commercial and residential real estate and 
construction, manufacturing, energy and mining , and agriculture . Lack of snowfall reduced  
tourism  activity . Some more firms announced plans to expand hiring , while  wage increases 
were modes t. Overall prices were level, but some increases were noted.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
Consumer spending was solid . Same- store sales at a Minnesota- based retailer increased 
about 4 percent in January compared with a year ago. A Minneapolis area mall manager reported relatively strong  traffic during January. A Minnesota -based restaurant and b ar 
chain reported that same -store sales were off to a good start in January and February. A 
fast food chain recently announced plans to add more restaurants in Minnesota. A representative of an auto dealers association in Montana noted that recent vehicle sales were higher than a year ago and that availability of new and used cars has improved. 
Repair shops in eastern Montana were very busy repairing oil -drilling -related vehicles.  
However, due to the surprisingly mild winter , many District auto repair shops  reported a 
decrease in bus iness because of fewer snow - and ice- related accidents.  
Tourism was down due to low snowfall in much of the D istrict. The lack of snow 
in Minnesota and Wisconsin has  stymied snowmobiling and cross -country  skiing . 
Snowmobil e dealerships reported a sharp drop in sales from a year ago. However, a 
Minnesota travel company reported strong demand for both corporate and leisure travel 
in January; interest in traveling to Europe and other overseas destinations was up. Another travel  agency  noted that recent corporate travel sales were up almost 25 percent 
compared with a year ago.  Construction and Real Estate  
The unusually warm weather aided construction activity . The value of commercial 
building permits in the  Sioux Falls, S.D., ar ea was up in January  from January  2011. A 
major Minnesota -based commercial real estate company expects more construction of 
retail and warehouse  structures . Residential construction increased  from a year ago . The 
value of residential building permits incre ased significantly in the Sioux Falls  area in 
January. The number of single -family building permits increased in Minnesota and North 
IX-2 
Dakota in December 2011, compared with December 2010. Multifamily construction in 
the Minneapolis area is in a “boom ,” according to a major real estate firm.  
 Commercial real estate market  activity  increased . A large warehouse property 
manager noted increased transaction activity over the past few months. A major Minnesota -based broker noted increased leasing of  office space.  Home sales in January  
were up from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis -St. Paul  area, and t he 
inventory of homes for sale continued at low levels. Several brokers noted that the low end of the market appeared to shift to a “sellers’ market.” The multifamily market 
continued to strengthen in the fourth quarter of 2011 as rents increased and vacancy rates decreased in many markets , according to a real estate research firm . 
Services  
Activity at p rofessional business service s firms  increased at a solid pace since  the last 
report. Of the 3 3 firms that responded to a mid -February ad hoc survey, 63 percent saw 
revenues increase over the past three months , while only 16 percent experienced revenue 
drops. Over the next three months, 59 percent expect in creased revenues and only 6 
percent expect sales to drop.  A human resource s consulting firm noted increased activity 
with “more proposals and opportunities.”  An architectural firm noted increased activity 
and demand, but said the  competition remains “fierc e.” 
Manufacturing  
District manufacturing expanded at a firm  pace. A January survey of purchasing 
managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. An electrical equipment producer is opening a 
new facility in Minnesota. An aerospace firm announced plans to locate a plant in 
Mont ana. A producer of automotive cooling systems is expanding operations in South 
Dakota . 
Energy and Mining  
Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued at  strong levels . District oil and gas 
exploration i ncreased since the last report. In Montana, construction began on what w ill 
be the state’s largest wind energy development. In addition, r egulators in Montana 
approved an $86 million wind ener gy project . Iron mines in northern Minnesota were 
operating at near capacity.  A Canadian mining company discovered large iron and 
titanium deposits near Duluth, Minn., but any mining operations are several years away.  
IX-3 
Agriculture  
Agricultur e remained strong . January pr ices received by farmers for corn and cattle 
increased . Prices declined somewhat for wheat, soybeans, hogs, dairy products, eggs and 
poultry, but all prices were above their January 2011 levels. According to preliminary 
results from the Minneapolis Fed’s f ourth- quarter (January) survey of agricultural credit 
conditions , 67 percent of District lenders reported that farm incomes increased in the 
previous three months; 10 percent reported decreases. However, drought conditions spread in Minnesota, the Dakotas and District portions of Wisconsin. Low snowfall 
combined with erratic temperatures were having an uncertain effect on the District’s 
winter wheat crop.  
Employment, Wages and Prices  
Some more firms announced plans to expand hiring . An airplane manufacturer  
announced plans for a new facility in northwestern Wisconsin  that will initially create 
300 jobs. A marketing company plans to expand its operations in Minnesota and 
eventually hire 200 more workers. Also in Minnesota, a clothing supplier will add 150 
employees at a new facility , and a boat manufacturer expects to rehire former employees 
laid off during the recession.  
However, some employment cutbacks were announced. A Minnesota -based food 
retailer will cu t about 200 jobs at the company’ s headquarters. A bank will lay off almost 
70 employees at  an auto-debt-collection unit in South Dakota.  
Wage increases were modest . Workers at two food operations recently agreed to a 
new contract that  includes some wage increases over a five- year period. Bank directors 
recently reported that business contacts expect ed wage increases between 2 percent and 3 
percent in 2012 compared with 2011 after remaining level over the past couple of years. 
Larger increases were noted in the oil -drilling area of western  North Dakota and eastern 
Montana, particularly for welders who were in short supply.  
Overall pr ices were level, but some  increases were noted. Minnesota gasoline 
prices were up 15 cents per gallon since early January. Bank directors noted that health insurance costs were up between 6 percent and 8 percent  over a year ago , with some 
reports of steeper increases.  
 
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT  - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy  expanded moderately  in January and early February. Despite 
a seasonal decline, consumer spending was stronger than expected  and retailers anticipated rising  
sales  in coming months. District manufacturing activity rebounded with stronger expectations for 
production, hiring, and capital spending. Residential and commercial real estate activity 
improved, and District contacts were optimistic regarding spring sales and construction activity. 
District banks reported steady loan demand and improved loan quality. Agricultural growing 
conditions improved with recent precipitation, and farmland values soared with high commodity prices. High crude oil prices fueled a rebound in District drilling activit y with further gains 
expected during the next three months. More contacts reported passing higher raw material s 
prices through to finished goods prices. Many District contacts planned to hire additional 
workers during the next quarter. Still, wage pressure s remained largely subdued except for 
specialized positions in high -tech and energy  industries .  
Consumer Spending.  Consumer  spending weakened in January and early February  but 
was expected to rebound in the months ahead. District r etailers reported a slowdown in sales 
after the holidays as consumers shopped for bargains . Still, store owners noted sales exceeded 
expectations by rising above year-ago levels and many remained optimistic that sales would 
improve in the coming months. Clearance items move d quickly , and appliance sales ticked up  
while  demand for furniture and electronics was weak . Auto dealers reported a post -holiday lull in 
sales  that boosted inventory levels, especially for SUVs and more expensive car models. 
However, auto dealers expected stronger demand for smaller, fuel efficient cars  would spur sales 
in the coming months . Some dealerships were hiring salespeople and service technicians. 
Restaurant sales were down from the previous survey but remained higher than year -ago levels 
and w ere expected to pick up with warmer weather. T ourism activity slowed after the holidays 
and below -average snowfall hurt bookings at Colorado ski resorts. District hotel owners , 
however, reported an uptick in occupancy at  slightly higher  average room rates  and expected 
business to strengthen further during the next three  months . 
Manufacturing  and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing activity rebounded, and 
sales at high -tech service  firms rose sharply  while transportation activity edged down  in the 
survey  period. Manufacturing activity expanded at both nondurable and durable goods factories, 
 
 X-2  
particularly those producing chemicals, fabricated metals, and aircraft equipment . After falling in 
late 2011, t he volume of new order s and shipments rebounded in January and February  and 
finished goods inventories  held steady  with increased  production. Plant managers expected 
production, hiring, and capital spending to strengthen during the next six months. The high- tech 
industry reported a sharp  increase in sales , and  some contacts were worried  about los ing future 
business due to a shortage of specialized labor , particularly software developers . Transportation 
activity  slowed further but was expected to improve  in the months  ahead . Trucking  firms 
remained concerned  about high fuel costs and a lack  of qualified drivers.  
Real Estate and Construction .  Residential and commercial real estate activity picked 
up in J anuary and early February . Existing home inventories declined as lower  prices spur red a 
modest increase in sales , particularly for low - and mid- priced homes. R eal estate contacts 
expected that a seasonal upswing in sales this spring would stabilize home prices in the coming 
months . Residential mortgage lenders reported an uptick in  loans for home purchase s and higher 
average loan amounts  while h ome loan refinancing activity was expected to slow further . 
Residential lot prices fell further , and new home starts were on par with year -ago levels. Builders 
planned to ramp up construction in the coming months  and sales rose at building  supply firms. 
New commercial construction increased and was expected to rise further with more projects in 
the pipeline. C ommercial real estate prices and rents dipped during the survey period but were 
expected to firm as vacancy rates i mproved. After edging up in January and early February, 
commercial real estate sales were expected to strengthen further during the next few  months. 
Developers reported little change in access to credit.    
Banking .  In the recent survey period, bankers reported generally steady loan demand , 
slight improvements in  loan quality, and a modest increase in  deposits. Most respondents 
reported steady loan demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans. However , loan demand was slightly  weaker for consumer installment loans and residential 
real estate loan  demand softened with slower home mortgage refinancing activity . Bankers 
reported that interest rates on commercial and industrial loans declined  further. Credit standards 
remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories , and most  respondents report ed stable or 
increased deposits. The majority of bankers reported improved  loan quality compared with  a year 
ago, and many banker s expected  loan quality to improve further during the next six months . 
 
 
 X-3  
Agriculture. A gricultural growing conditions fluctuated with precipitation levels. A fter 
warm, dry weather in January, recent precipitation kept agricultural growing conditions from 
deteriorating further. The winter wheat crop remained in fair to good condition. Soil moisture 
levels were low  across the District with western Oklahoma and K ansas experiencing severe 
drought. Ranchers in the southern Plains continued to liquidate herds due to poor pasture conditions and record high cattle prices. In the northern Plains, the lack of harsh winter weather 
allowed cattle feedlot operators to reduce feed usage and still maintain livestock growth. District 
contacts  expressed concerns about 2012 profit margins due to rising feed, fuel, and fertilizer 
costs. Still, a rebound in crop prices fueled additional gains to record high farmland values and more  bankers expected farmland prices to move higher in the next few  months . 
Energy.  En ergy activity rebounded in January and early February and District contacts 
expected additional expansion in coming months. After slowing at the start of the year, District 
drilling rig activity rebounded with higher crude oil prices. Energy contacts, however, noted that 
a lack of equipment and services and qualified labor were constrain ts on current drilling  activity.  
District contacts expected crude oil and natural gas prices to hold at current levels  and 
anticipated  further expansion in oil drilling activity . Bucking national trends, Wyoming’s coal 
production rose above year -ago levels in January and early February. Ethanol profits dropped 
sharply as ethanol prices decl ined with the year-end expiration of the federal ethanol subsidy.  
Wages and Prices .  Wage pressures remained low during the survey period, and more 
contacts reported raising finished goods prices in light of higher raw materials costs . More 
businesses planned to hire workers during the next three months , and contacts in low - and 
moderate- income communities reported a slight improvement in job opportunities. However, 
most firms did not plan to raise  wages except for specialized positions , particularly in the  high -
tech and energy fields . After edging up  during the past survey period, more  retailers expected to 
raise selling prices over the next three months. Restaurateurs  expected further increases in menu 
prices due to soaring  food costs. Hotel operators plan ned to increase room rates  with higher 
occupancy  rates . Manufacturers paid higher price s for raw materials , and more manufacturers  
planned to pass on higher costs to finished goods prices. Builders and construction supply 
companies noted rising prices for construction materials , especially drywall and asphalt  shingles. 
Transportation companies paid  high fuel prices , and some were raising shipping rates.  
XI-1 
 
ELEVENTH  DISTRICT —DALLAS    
 
 The Eleventh District economy continued to gr ow at a mode rate pace, and outlooks were more 
positive than in the last report . Manufactur ers reported increase d activity. D emand for business services 
was solid , and a ctivity in transportation services rose modestly . Housing and commercial real estate 
marke ts continued to improve . Overall building  activity remain ed subdued, with the major exception 
being robust multifamily  construction activity . Contacts said retail sales growth was tepid and automobile 
sales held steady . Financial services responden ts said overall loan demand edged up . Energy activity was 
strong, and a gricultural conditions improved. Employment levels were flat to up slightly . Price and wage 
pressures were  modest . 
Prices    Contacts across most  industries said prices held steady . The exceptions were s ome 
producers of transportation equipment, fabricated metals and food who noted slight increases in selling 
prices to partially offset higher input costs. Airlines reported higher f ares, and s hipping firms noted an 
increase in express package and freight delivery rates .  
The price of WTI  was near $100 per barrel during the reporting period. Natural gas prices fell 
from $3 per thousand cubic feet in early January to near $2.50 in mid -February . Gasoline prices rose by 
about 22 cents per gallon over the past six weeks, and the price of diesel rose by 7 cents. Prices of 
petroche micals and plastics increased  since the last report.  
Labor Market     Employment levels were unchanged at most  responding firms but some 
contacts noted increases. Staffing firms continued to report high levels of demand. Oil services and 
machinery firms co ntinued hiring at a rapid pace, and slight employment increases came from so me auto 
dealers,  airlines , and transportation, food and high- tech manufacturers. Shortages of skilled worker s 
continued to be reported , particularly for the energy industry. Wage pressures remained minimal, 
although upward pressure for certain positions such as auto mechanics and software engineers was 
reported . Several firms said annual cost -of-living adjustments took effect at the start of the year.   
Manufacturing    Overall d emand for c onstruction- related materials improved, and several 
contacts noted that orders were up from year -ago levels. Mild winter weather , robust multifamily 
construction and booming oil field activity provided a boost to some producers of lumber , stone, clay and 
glass. Fabricated metals manufacturers noted a pick -up in growth since the last report , in part due to 
government projects. Producers of primary metals reported a broad -based increase in orders,  and one 
contact said they were adding a new manufacturing plant. Construction- related o utlooks were more 
positive than in the last report , and several contacts expect  a slight rebound in activity this year .  
High -tech manufacturers said  orders edged up moderately since the last report . Demand for 
semiconductors and other electronic products improved, largely due to a pickup in demand for 
XI-2 
 
automobiles, mobile devices and cloud computing. In addition, one respondent noted that retailers of 
electronic goods had been par ing down inventories in the second half of 2011 and that orders picked up as 
retailers ended the inventory reduction. Most contacts  expect a gradual improvement in demand over the 
next three to six months.  
Emergency vehicle, automobile and aviation equipment manufacturers said demand was flat to up 
since the last report , and expectations are for strong  sales growth this year . Food producers noted a n 
uptick  in orders  from the prior  report, largely due to stronger consumer demand. Overall conditions in the 
paper products sector were mostly  unchanged. 
Petrochemicals producers reported several large planned and unplanned outages at ethylene and 
polyethylene production facilities, which led to a sharp increase in prices. Export demand for polyethylene and caustic soda continued to trend up, while domestic PVC demand remained weak due to 
low levels of housing construction and infrastructure projects. Refiners noted weak demand for petroleum 
products nationally, although refineries on th e Gulf Coast were seeing slightly higher margins than some 
other parts of the country. Contacts noted Gulf Coast refineries were investing heavily on repairs and 
maintenance during the current spring turnaround season.  
Retail Sales    Retailers said overall sales growth was tepid during the reporting period, largely 
due to unseasonably warm weather . However, sales of non -seasonal item s like menswear and home 
furnishings remained strong. Eleventh District sales trended roughly in -line with the nation over the 
reporting period, according to three large retailers. Inventories were at desired levels. Contacts noted that 
the retail environment ha d improved, and expectations a re for moderate sa les growth this year.  
Automobile sales held steady from the prior report. The used car market remain ed tight. Vehicle 
inventories were somewhat  lighter than normal. E xpectations are for moderate increases  in new car sales 
this year.  
Services   Demand for business services was solid and outlooks were generally more optimistic 
than in the last report. Staffing firms continued to report high levels of demand , noting more direct hires 
than te mporary placements. D emand for skilled professional s, particularly IT workers  was strong, while 
orders from the banking sector and demand for clerical staff declined. Legal firms reported steady demand, with a n uptick  in corporate  activity and continued strength in intellectual property, energy and 
real-estate related services. Acco unting firms reported strong seasonal  demand for tax related services.  
Reports from transportation service firms were positive. A ir cargo volumes rose, while container 
shipments  were flat during the reporting period. Railroad s noted a broad- based increase in shipments, 
with particularly strong growth in petroleum products, motor vehicles and equipment, nonmetallic 
minerals, crushed stone, metals and metallic ores. Shipping service firms reported an increase in small 
parcel ship ments  from the prior report . 
XI-3 
 
Airlines reported  passenger demand improved over the past six weeks. D omestic d emand and 
travel to Latin America were  solid, while travel to Mexico and the Pacific was weak . Contacts said 
business travel ers remain ed price sensitive and we re purchasing  restricted discount fares. Responding 
firms expect  passenger demand to remain stable over the next three months . 
Construction and R eal Estate    Housing demand continued to firm since the last report. Sales of 
existing homes increased moderately and new home sales were flat to slightly up. Some contacts noted 
that in January, which is usually a slow month, buyer interest and activity was strong due  to favorable 
weather and record low interest rates. In addition, a fast -declining inventory of homes was reported. 
Respondents expect the positive trend in sales to continue, and outlooks suggest a modest increase in new home construction in 2012. Apartme nt leasing activity remained strong since the last report, and 
responding firms said Texas markets were outperforming the U.S. average. Investor interest in sales and development of multifamily complexes continued to increase. The pace of current multifami ly 
construction was said to be catching up with historical norms.  
Nonresidential real estate activity continued to pick up, although construction remained at low 
levels. Contacts said recent reports on leasing for office and industrial space suggest moder ate gains, 
thanks to demand from the energy and high tech sectors. Investment sales activity continued to improve, 
in part, due to very attractive interest rates. Contacts were optimistic in their outlooks.  
Financial Services   Financial firms reported a modest uptick in loan demand. National banks 
reported strength in middle -market and large corporate lending activity, and several regional banks noted 
energy -related activity was robust. Outlooks we re generally more optimistic than at year -end 2011. 
Contac ts said l oan pricing remained moderately aggressive, loan quality continued to improve and 
problem loans were declining. Respondents  noted they were willing to make loans , and borrowers’ 
financial positions were reportedly better than last year. 
Energy   Energy -related service firms reported very strong demand over the past six weeks, 
despite a small dip in the rig count due to low natural gas prices. A few gas -directed drilling firms have 
announced drilling cuts, but respondents expect oil -directed activity to offset the losses. Oil service firms  
expect  strong orders, high investment activity and good overall prospects in 2012.  
Agriculture   Recent rainfall eased drought conditions in several areas, particularly in the 
northeast ern parts of the District. The  rain helped refill stock tanks and benefitted pasture conditions. 
Farmers were  a little more optimistic about spring planting . Demand for agricultural products remained 
strong. Contacts said cattle prices climbed to record levels, lar gely due to tight supplies. High commodity 
prices have helped agricultural producers’ margins, but elevated  input costs have erased  some of those 
gains.  
XII -  1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO  
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow  at a mode rate pace during the 
reporting period of January through mid- February .  Price increases for final goods and services were 
limited , and upward wage pressures were minimal .  Sales of retail items rose on balance, and demand 
improved modestly for business and consumer services.   District manufacturing was mixed  but appeared 
to expand overall.  Demand grew further for agricultural producers but was uneven  for providers of 
energy resources.  Activity in District housing markets remained sluggish , and demand for nonresidential 
real estate  stayed weak overall .  Financial institutions reported a small increase in  overal l loan demand.  
Wages and Prices  
 Upward price pressures remained very limited during the reporting period.  While price increases 
were reported for some commodities, including oil and assorted construction materials  such as cement 
and wallboard, declines were noted for others , such as natural gas.  Price increases for most goods and 
services continued to be  restrained by weak final demand and stiff competition among businesses . 
 Upward wage pressures were quite modest, as high levels of unemployment and li mited demand 
for new workers kept a lid on compensation gains.  However, contacts continued to point to notable 
increases in the costs of employee benefits, particularly in regard to defined  benefit  pension plans, 
although they reported slight  easing in upward pressures on health benefit costs.  Consistent with prior 
periods, upward wage pressures remained pronounced for workers with specialized skills in the 
application of information technology  in assorted sectors.  
Retail Trade and Services  
 Retail sales continued to expand.  Modest improvements in sales were reported for general 
merchandise such as apparel and smaller household items, with stronger gains noted for traditional 
department stores than for discount chains.  Demand  also improved modestly for retailers of major 
appliances and furniture, but  it remained lackluster for electronics.  Sales held relatively stable for 
grocers, although upscale chains saw gains.  For retailers of pet products, demand continued to show 
XII -  2 
robus t growth.  
 Demand for business and consumer services rose a bit  on net .  Sales grew  further for providers of 
technology services to businesses and consumers.  Similarly, d emand for professional services such as 
legal services and accounting  ticked up on balance .  For providers of health- care services, demand was 
largely stable, with declines in inpatient admissions  and surgeries offset by higher emergency room visits.  
Sales activity was reported  to be largely unchanged for restaurants and other food- service  providers.  
Conditions in the District’s travel and tourism industry continued to strengthen , reflecting growth in both  
the business and tourism segments of the market.   
Manufacturing  
 Manufacturing activity  in the District was mixed but appeared to expand further  during the 
reporting period of January through mid-February.  Manufacturers of semiconductors and other 
technology products reported moderate sales gains; reports of ongoing investments in information 
technology  equipment  by firms in most sectors suggest that demand growth is likely to continue  for these 
manufacturers.  F or makers of commercial aircraft and parts, strong demand for narrow -body aircraft 
along with a n extensive  order backlog kept production rates near capacity.  Activity was essentially flat  
for metal fabricators , and  slack demand combined with  a diminishing backlog have raised concerns that 
production activity  may decline  going forward.  Capacity utilization rates for petroleum refiners held  
largely st able as robust global demand for distillate products , especially from Latin America, continued to 
offset  weak domestic demand for gasoline.  Output and sales of wood products remained extremely weak.  
Agriculture and Resource -related Industries  
 Demand continued to improve for agricultural products and mined metals, but  it was mixed for 
natural resources used for energy production.  Orders and final sales grew further for most  crops and 
livestock products, with little or no change indicated for the cost and availability of inputs.  Mining 
activity in parts of the District expanded further  for a variety of precious metals and metallic elements 
used for specialized industrial purposes .  Strong foreign demand for oil prompted additional increases in 
XII -  3 
extracti on activity .  By contrast , warm weather held down demand for natural gas  relative to seasonal 
norms , causing further declines in recent and planned extraction activity.   
Real Estate and Construction  
 
 Home demand in the District persisted  at very low levels, and conditions were little changed for 
commercial real estate.  The sales pace for new and existing homes remained quite subdued, although 
scattered reports  suggested modest improvement.  Inventories of available homes stayed quite hig h, 
putting continued downward pressure on prices and construction activity.  By contrast, demand for rental space remained robust, prompting further increases in construction of  multifamily units.  Conditions in 
commercial real estate markets were largely unchanged, and vacancy rates for office and industrial space 
stayed high in m ost parts of the District.  However, additional declin es in vacancy rates were noted for 
selected geographic areas such as the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle.  C ontacts  also noted recent 
improvement in financing availability and investor activity for well- leased office buildings.  
Financial Institutions  
 Reports from District banking  and business  contacts indicated that loan demand improved a bit  
overall  compared with the prior reporting period.  The volume of new commercial and industrial loans 
edged up.  The reports suggested that b usiness es generally  remain ed very cautious in regard to capital 
spending  decisions, but many continued to invest in information technolog y equipment  aimed at 
enhancing productivity .  Moreover, m any businesses  expect to modestly  increase their capital spending in 
the first half of the year compared with the second half of last year , suggesting that growth in  business 
loan demand may continue .  The reports also noted continued stiff  competition  among lenders  to extend 
credit to well- qualified small and medium -sized businesses, placing further  downward pressure on loan 
rates and fees.   Strong recent financial performance by technology companies backed by venture capital 
reportedly has spurred further investments of late .  On the consumer side, the reports suggested  little 
change in loan demand.  C ontacts reported slight improvement in overall credit availability, although 
lending standards remained relatively restrictive for many types of business and consumer loans.  