               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
               W e d n e s d a y  
               June 10, 2009 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
  
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
  
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
June 2009 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
 
 
JUNE 2009 
                                
 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  
SUMMARY ....................................................................................................................  i 
First District—Boston .................................................................................................. I-1 
Second District—New York ....................................................................................... II-1 Third District—Philadelphia ..................................................................................... III-1 Fourth District—Cleveland ....................................................................................... IV-1 Fifth District—R ichmond .......................................................................................... V-1 
Sixth District—Atlanta ............................................................................................. VI-1 Seventh District—Chicago ...................................................................................... VII-1 Eighth District—St. Louis ..................................................................................... VIII-1 Ninth District—Minneapolis .................................................................................... IX-1 
Tenth District—Kansas City ...................................................................................... X-1 
Eleventh District—Dallas ......................................................................................... XI-1 Twelfth District—San Francisco ............................................................................. XII-1  
 
i 
Summary1 
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Dist rict Banks indicate that economic conditions 
remained weak or deteriorated further during the pe riod from mid-April through May.  However, five of 
the Districts noted that the downward trend is show ing signs of moderating.  Further, contacts from 
several Districts said that their expectations have im proved, though they do not see a substantial increase 
in economic activity through the end of the year. 
Manufacturing activity declined or remained at a low level across most Districts.  However, 
several Districts also reported that the outlook by manufacturers has improved somewhat.  Demand for 
nonfinancial services contracted across Districts reporting on this segment.  Retail spending remained soft 
as consumers focused on purchasing less expensive neces sities and shied away from buying luxury goods.  
New car purchases remained depressed, with several Districts indicating that tight credit conditions were 
hampering auto sales.  Travel and tourism activity also declined.  A number of Districts reported an 
uptick in home sales, and many said that new home cons truction appeared to have stabilized at very low 
levels.  Vacancy rates for commercial properties we re rising in many parts of the country, while 
developers are finding financing fo r new commercial projects increasingly difficult to obtain.  Most 
Districts reported that overall lending activity was st able or weak, but with mixed results across loan 
categories.  Credit conditions remained stringent or tightened further.  Energy activity continued to weaken across most Districts, and demand for na tural resources remained depressed.  Planting and 
growing conditions varied across Distri cts as did agricultural input costs. 
Labor market conditions continued to be weak across the country, with wages generally 
remaining flat or falling.  Two Districts also mentioned employers’ plans to scale back employee benefit 
programs.  The Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis Distri cts reported that some state and local governments  
 
                                                 
1 Prepared by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland based on information collected on or before June 1, 2009.  
This document summarizes comments recei ved from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is 
not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
ii 
faced hiring freezes or outright job cuts.  While manufacturing employment levels remained low, some 
Districts saw signs that job losses may be moderating.  With few exceptions, Districts reported that prices 
at all stages of production were generally flat or fa lling.  The notable exception to the downward pressure 
on prices was the widely-reported increase in oil prices. 
  Manufacturing. Manufacturing declined or remained weak in most Districts.  Boston, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, a nd Minneapolis reported declines in activity, while 
production remained at very low levels in the San Fr ancisco District.  Atlanta and Kansas City indicated 
that the pace of the decline in manufacturing had m oderated or slowed.  New York characterized the 
sector as having stabilized, while Dallas mentioned signs of stabilization.  In contrast, Richmond reported 
a rise in both new orders and shipments. 
Philadelphia reported that the primary metals, machinery, and electrical equipment industries 
remain especially weak, and Cleveland noted that steel shipments continue at depressed levels.  Chicago commented that, apart from Asia, export demand was weak.  Dallas reported th at construction-related 
manufacturing and the petrochemicals markets remained weak, while San Francisco stated that activity in the wood products industry was depressed and that  demand in the metal fabrication industry was 
extremely weak.  Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis and Dallas all noted weakness in automotive-related 
industries.   In contrast, Boston, Dallas, and San Francisco indicated that high technology industries experienced some increase in activity, and Richmond noted strengthening across a number of industries.  
Several Districts also reported that the outlook of manufacturers has improved somewhat, though Boston, Cleveland and Kansas City mentioned that capital spending was weak. 
Nonfinancial Services. Districts reporting on nonfinancial services indicated that for the most 
part activity continued to decline.  Looking at some  specific sectors, providers of health-care services 
spoke of job cuts and lower patient volumes.  Activity continued to weaken or remain soft for providers 
of professional services such as accounting, archit ecture, business consulting, and legal services.  In 
contrast, San Francisco reported a substantial pickup in real estate services such  as title insurance due to  
iii 
an increase in home refinancing.  Activity in IT services varied, with New England firms experiencing 
declining revenue and business, while demand for IT workers in Richmond and Chicago was reportedly  
on the rise.  High-tech service sales in Kansas City in creased moderately, and demand there is expected to 
strengthen.    
Transportation contacts in most Districts say that shipping volume either remained at low levels 
or continued to decline.  Contacts in the Cleveland Di strict generally stated that while shipping volumes 
remain down across all market segments, the steep drop-off earlier this year has abated.  Cargo and 
container trade in Richmond and Dallas remains at low levels, but contacts noted signs of improvement in import and export activity. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism. Consumer spending remained soft as households focused on 
purchasing less expensive necessities.  Reports from New York, Minneapolis, and Dallas indicated a modest rise in sales, while retail purchases in Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco were flat or mixed.  The other Districts experienced declining sales.  Several Districts 
reported that discounters have seen their sales increa se, while purchases of luxury goods continued to 
weaken.  Respondents from Boston, Philadelphia, Clevel and, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas 
expect soft consumer sales to persist.  Purchases of  new cars remained depressed across most Districts.  
However, Chicago saw a small increase in auto sal es, which respondents attributed to incentives and 
promotions.  New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Kansas City indicated that tight credit conditions hampered auto sales.  Reports from Cleveland, Chi cago, Kansas City, and San Francisco indicate that 
sales of used vehicles are rising.  
Travel and tourism activity declined, and vacati oners are tending to spend less.  Business at 
Manhattan hotels and Broadway theater s, which had increased modestly in April, fell back in May.  
Bookings at resorts in the Richmond District are starti ng to pick up; however, they are weaker than a year 
ago.  In the Atlanta District, promotions and discount ing were said to have played a significant role in  
 
iv 
keeping theme park attendance and cruise bookings stable.  Contacts from the San Francisco District said 
that pronounced declines in hotel occupancy rates, especially luxury hotels, were ongoing, while travel in  
some parts of the District remained down at double-di git rates from the previous year.  However, a report 
from the Minneapolis District indicated that summer reservations at campgrounds and resorts are strong.   
Real Estate and Construction. Although the residential real estate market remains weak, agents 
in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco 
Districts reported an uptick in home sales.  The reasons  cited include seasonal factors, low interest rates, 
declining house prices, and tax credits for first-time  buyers.  Much of the sales increase was found in the 
lower-priced end of the market.  New home construction a ppeared to have stabilized at very low levels in 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minnea polis, Dallas, and San Francisco, although Kansas City 
reported an uptick in construction.  Home inventor ies were trending down in Philadelphia, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas.  However, Chica go reported that inventories remain elevated.   
Commercial real estate markets continued to weak en across all Districts.  Vacancy rates for 
commercial properties were rising in many regions of the Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts putting downward pressure on 
rents.  Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis reported new construction projects be ing postponed or cancelled, 
and new construction in the New York, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis Districts dropped substantially.  
Eight Districts cited difficulty in obtaining financin g as one of the primary reasons for delaying or 
stopping construction of new de velopments and for limiting sales of existing properties.  
Banking and Finance. Most Districts reported that overall lending activity was stable or weak, 
but with mixed results across loan categories.  Demand for commercial and industrial loans fell in New 
York, Philadelphia, Richmond, and San Francisco.  Bo ston, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas 
singled out commercial real estate as experiencing w eakening demand.  Boston reported that commercial 
real estate transactions were increasingly scarce, and Dallas noted that loan renewals in this category required more borrower equity and smaller loan sizes than in the past. Atlanta and Chicago reported  
v 
limited credit availability for vehicle dealers and ot her businesses tied to the auto industry.  Demand for 
mortgage refinancing loans was mixed. New York an d Cleveland reported strong demand for these loans,  
while Richmond noted a waning of residential refinanci ng demand due to rising interest rates.  Richmond 
also reported an uptick in demand for purchase mortgage loans.  
Most Districts said that credit conditions remained  stringent or tightened further.  Reports from 
Philadelphia and Cleveland expected that credit will re main tight in the near term.  The credit quality of 
loan applicants and existing clients showed deteri oration in Philadelphia, Richmond, Cleveland, and 
Dallas, although Richmond noted that the rate of dete rioration has slowed.  New York and Cleveland said 
that delinquencies had increased across numerous loan categories, particularly those tied to real estate.  
Cleveland and Kansas City reported increases in bank deposits, with the latter attributing the rise to 
uncertainty about financial markets. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources. Planting and growing conditions varied across Districts, 
with favorable developments in Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas.  However, a drought hindered 
Oklahoma’s wheat crop and livestock production in S outhwest Texas.  Above-normal rainfall delayed 
planting of major crops in the Atlanta, Chicago, a nd St. Louis Districts.  Storms in the Minneapolis 
District destroyed fields and led to higher-than-norma l deaths in calving.  The Chicago and Kansas City 
Districts both said that lower cattle and hog prices along with higher feed costs have worsened the income 
prospect for livestock producers.  Input costs in Sa n Francisco, though, have stayed at moderate levels, 
and sales have continued at a solid pace for most types of agricultural output.   
Energy activity continued to weaken across most  Districts, and demand for natural resources 
remained depressed.  Coal production and prices fell subs tantially in the Cleveland District.  The number 
of drilling rigs operating in the Kansas City District is  sixty percent below its peak last fall, and working 
rigs in Texas have fallen fifteen percent over the p ast six weeks as global demand for oil remains low.  
However, one production facility in th e Gulf of Mexico just opened in May and is expected to make a  
 
vi 
major contribution to oil and natural gas output once it reaches full production.  Wind energy projects 
expanded in the Kansas City and Minneapolis Districts. 
Employment and Wages. Labor market conditions continued to be weak across the country, 
with wages generally remaining flat or falling.  Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco reported that 
businesses were cutting or freezing wages, and Boston cited wage freezes in the retail sector.  The 
Chicago District reported that the downward pressure  on wages was abating somewhat there, as firms 
turned instead to cutting hours or jobs outright to contain labor costs.  Firms in the Atlanta and Dallas 
Districts also reported having to cut hours to reduce costs.  In addition, the Boston and San Francisco 
Districts also mentioned employers’ plans to scale back employee benefit programs. 
In the service sector, the Boston and Cleveland Districts reported relatively stable retail 
employment, while the Richmond District reported continuing reductions.  The Richmond, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted  that firms providing professional services, such as 
accounting, consulting, and legal ser vices, continued to report staff reductions, while the Boston and New 
York Districts reported weak demand for financial services workers, with ongoing layoffs at large 
financial firms.  The Boston and Richmond Districts also reported reductions in information technology 
jobs.  The Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts reported that some state and local governments faced 
hiring freezes or outright job cuts. 
In manufacturing, while employment levels remain ed low, several Districts saw signs that job 
losses may be moderating.  The New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts all reported less 
severe employment reductions in recent weeks, with some optimism that manufacturing employment 
levels may soon stabilize.  This, however, was balanced by reports of ongoing manufacturing 
employment losses in the Boston, Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts.   
Staffing services firms reported some modest signs of recovery, with the Boston, Atlanta, 
Chicago, and Dallas Districts all reporting some stabilization in activity or a slight improvement in  
 
vii 
employment trends.  The Cleveland and Richmond Districts, however, continued to report that activity 
among staffing services firms was weak. 
Prices. With few exceptions, the District Banks reported that prices at all stages of production 
were generally flat or falling.  Manufacturers in Phila delphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and 
San Francisco said that overall input prices were stable or declining, although in Kansas City those 
declines were said to be moderating.  In contrast , Richmond noted that prices of raw materials had 
increased at a quicker pace.  The notable exception to the downward pressure on input prices was oil.  
Increases in oil prices were widely reported.  However, prices for othe r energy commodities, like coal and 
natural gas, remained relatively low.  Other exceptions to the prevailing price trend included agricultural 
items.  The Atlanta and Kansas City Districts reported some increases in agricultural prices, with the latter 
noting that these higher prices were partly driven by global weather concerns.  The Chicago and Kansas City Districts also reported higher prices for livestock feed.  In construction, the Philadelphia, Kansas 
City, and Minneapolis Districts reported higher prices for some building supplies, perhaps related to 
increase in petroleum prices.  
Reports from a number of Districts indicated that pricing at retail remains very soft.  The 
Cleveland and Dallas Districts indicated that retail pr ices were stable, San Francisco said that they were 
held down by discounting, and Phila delphia noted that steady input co sts were holding retail prices in 
check.  In Kansas City, retail prices were declining a nd expected to soften further.  Richmond’s retail 
prices continued to rise, albeit more slowly than in the past.  
I-1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Most First District business contacts report ongoing  declines in sales or orders from a year earlier. 
Aside from biopharmaceuticals, manufacturers say bus iness continues to drop off and they are cutting 
capital spending, employment or hours, and compen sation. Software and information technology services 
firms are also seeing revenues fall from a year ago, as are staffing firms. However, a few manufacturers 
and staffing firms cite some stabilization or positive signs recently. Residential and commercial real estate 
markets remain in the doldrums, with declines in prices and sales (o r rents and occupa ncy) continuing 
into March and April. Retailers are the exception, with a majority of respondents reporting modest sales 
increases from a year ago. Manufacturers say input cost s are roughly flat, while their selling prices are flat 
to down.  Retailers’ and software firms’ prices are holding steady, while temp firms’ bill rates and pay 
rates are declining. “Uncertain” continues to be the operative word regarding the outlook, although 
contacts in several sectors see more reason for optimism now than six weeks or three months ago. 
Retail . With one exception, contacted retailers in th e First District report modest year-over-year 
sales changes for April and early May. By contrast , a housing-related respondent reports that sales are 
running more than 30 percent below a year ago, pa rtly because of “overly restrictive” lending. Another 
retailer is concerned about an observed increase in  credit card “declines” as customers hit their credit 
limits.  
Respondents continue to tightly manage inventor y levels. Capital spending reports are mixed, 
with some contacts taking advantage of improving ex pansion opportunities and others still curtailing 2009 
capital spending. The majority of contacted retailers say their headcounts are currently stable, although generally below year-earlier levels, with hiring occu rring only where necessary. Most have frozen wages 
in their corporate headquarters; one respondent indicated they had “offset” the wage freeze by giving all affected employees an additional week of paid vacation. Prices remain stable.  
 
I-2 
Overall, most First District retailers expect sales growth to remain modest, but they are cautiously 
optimistic about seeing “the green sprouts of recovery.”   
Manufacturing and Related Services . Almost all manufacturing and related services contacts 
headquartered in the First District report that, to date, 2009 sales or orders have fallen below year-ago 
levels, in most cases by double-digit percentages. Respondents say that consumers and businesses remain 
especially wary of spending for big-ticket items or in bulk, and many note that demand is off more 
sharply in foreign markets than domestically. Mo st manufacturers expect sales declines in the second 
quarter to be at least as pronounced as they were in  the first quarter, but a few are beginning to cite 
modest improvements. For example, contacts indicate that production of semiconductors for selected consumer products picked up in the second quarter compared to first-quarter levels. Another sees 
opportunities in the fiscal stimulus package for altern ative energy and other infrastructure projects. By 
contrast with other manufacturing segments, biopharm aceutical sales continue to increase strongly.  
Costs of materials and other inputs have decr eased for some manufacturers but increased for 
others. On average, they appear fairly stable. Selling prices are generally said to be flat to down. Almost 
all the contacted manufacturers and related services provi ders have reduced employment and/or hours this 
year. Many expect to implement further layoffs, te mporary plant shutdowns, or voluntary or involuntary 
furloughs in the months ahead. Nearly one-half of  respondents have taken steps to rein in employee 
compensation through measures such as pay freezes or benefit reductions. 
Almost all respondents have cut capital spending from last year’s levels. Many describe their 
investment plans in terms such as “the very minimu m,” but some say they may undertake projects related 
to development or manufacture of new products or to cost-cutting. 
Manufacturers and related services providers are mixed in their outlook. Some describe 
themselves as becoming slightly more optimistic on the basis of their own business or broader 
developments in financial markets or consumer c onfidence. Others remain guarded about their sales  
 
I-3 
prospects through the end of 2009 and into 2010. To the extent that they express confidence, it is 
primarily because they have succeeded in re ducing costs and managing accounts receivable.  
Software and Information Technology Services. New England software and information 
technology firms report a continued slowdown in the second quarter of 2009. Revenues have dropped 
year-over-year for nearly all contacted firms, generally driven by sharp declines in new software license 
revenues, while maintenance contracts have remain ed steady or shown slight weakness. Respondents 
continue to talk with prospective clients wanting to  invest in new technology, but those customers are 
unwilling to finalize deals in the current economic envi ronment. Some contacts say their clients are also 
delaying orders out of uncertainty about possible restrictions on the allocation of money from the federal 
stimulus package. Some First District software and IT firms have reduced their workforces, while others 
continue to hire selectively for critical positions a nd replacements. Selling pri ces have held up, although 
some clients are asking to revisit their payment te rms. Software and IT firms in New England have 
revised downwards their revenue forecasts, with expect ations for the remainder of the year varying from a 
prolonged softening to moderate growth. 
Staffing Services. First District contacts suggest the temporary services industry has stabilized 
during recent weeks, with some even reporting slight upticks in activity. Despite the improvement over 
prior months, there is still a marked decline from the previous year, with yearly revenues down 10 percent 
to 50 percent. Overall labor demand remains soft, speci fically in the manufacturing, light industrial, and 
financial services sectors, although companies in  the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries 
continue to hire. The supply of job seekers is abundant; however, a few respondents indicate that 
applicants are often ill-qualified for open positions. In addition, certain specialized skill sets remain 
difficult to find, including medical billers, engineer s, programmers, and skilled electricians. Also, the 
recruiting process is lengthening, as employers are “wa iting for ideal candidates.” Clients continue to put 
pressure on prices, but bill rate reductions are translat ed proportionately to pay rates without dispute from 
employees. Several contacts express concern over expected  increases in state unemployment taxes, with  
I-4 
one respondent noting that the tax generally rises by 50  percent in the year following a recession. First 
District staffing contacts believe that the New England labor market, excluding the manufacturing sector, 
is performing better than that of the nation as a w hole, and respondents are generally hopeful for an 
improved 2010.  
Commercial Real Estate. A Boston-based savings bank reports that financing volume for 
smaller commercial deals (priced below $10 million) slowed considerably through April and May, to a 
pace roughly half that observed in the first three months  of 2009. This development is noteworthy, as this 
contact and others had previously reported that the demand for loans for small commercial properties 
remained robust despite very slow volume in the mark et for higher-priced properties. A broker for larger 
deals reports that transactions remain ex tremely scarce, with little price discovery.  
Contacts across the region report that office vacancy rates continued to rise in recent months, 
exerting ongoing downward pressure on rents. In both Providence and Bost on, the exit, consolidation, and 
shrinkage of large employers has pushed up office v acancy rates, including a significant increase in space 
available for sublease in Boston; similar forces are ope rating in Hartford, although causing more modest 
changes. While office rental rates are reportedly falling in Boston and Providence, asking rents for 
Hartford office space have held stead y in recent weeks despite the incr eases in vacancy. The industrial 
sector remains relatively robust in Rhode Island, with steady deal volume and vacancy rates hovering just above 10 percent. One contact reports that rents fo r suburban Boston retail space have declined by 10 
percent to 15 percent, with minimal new leasing activity.  
Contacts expect a delayed recovery for the comme rcial sector, with vacancy rates continuing to 
rise in the office and retail sectors, following furthe r expected increases in the unemployment rate. One 
Boston contact repeated his previously expressed concern regarding Boston properties that risk 
foreclosure in light of declining property values and loan maturities one to three years out.  
Residential Real Estate. New England residential real estate markets continue to be weak, with 
only a couple of exceptions. Most stat es in the region experienced 10 per cent to 20 percent year-over-year  
I-5 
declines in home sales in March or April. Despite favor able interest rates, low prices, and the first-time 
homebuyer tax credit, contacts say concerns about employment and the overall economy are still holding 
back the market. Median home prices declined 10 per cent or more year-over-year in every state in the 
region, with Rhode Island’s prices falling 27 percen t in March. One exception was home sales in New 
Hampshire, which actually increased about 10 percent year-over-year in March and April; bank-owned 
properties were reportedly a significant part of th is sales increase. Another positive sign came from 
Massachusetts, where the median home price increased a substantial (and non-seasonal) 8 percent from 
March to April. Additionally, several contacts continue to report increased activity, partly due to the tax credit, but they are uncertain about the degree to wh ich it will translate into increased sales. Most contacts 
are reluctant to predict when prices will stabilize.  
Condo markets continue to soften in New England, with sales volumes and median prices 
declining on a year-over-year basi s. In Massachusetts in April, co ndo sales dropped 29 percent year-over-
year, while the median condo price declined 14 percen t. The upper end of the market, including vacation 
homes, is said to be quite stagnant. Overall, however , contacts seem a bit more optimistic than the last 
few months. 
II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has shown signs of stabilizing since the last report, though some 
sectors continued to weaken.  The labor market remain s exceptionally slack and has yet to show signs of 
leveling off.  Manufacturing sector contacts indicate that activity has generally stabilized and express 
increasingly widespread optimism about the near-term outlook.  Retailers indicate that sales improved 
somewhat in May and were roughly on plan but still  down moderately from a year earlier.  Consumer 
confidence rose noticeably in April and May, reboundi ng from a record low.  However, tourism activity 
in New York City showed further signs of softening since the last report.  Commercial real estate markets 
have been mixed since the last report, with Ma nhattan’s market continuing to weaken, but most 
surrounding markets slack but stable.   Housing markets appear to be stabilizing in much of the District 
but continued to weaken in New York City.  Finally, bankers again report increased demand for home mortgages but steady to somewhat weaker demand in other loan categories; they also report further 
tightening in credit standards and continued moderate increases in delinquency rates across all segments.  
Consumer Spending. Retail sales were reported to be r oughly on plan in May but still down 
moderately from a year earlier, with selling prices holdi ng fairly steady overall.  Two major retail chains 
indicate that same-store sales were down by less than  4 percent from a year earlier in May—and roughly 
in line with plan—following declines of nearly 10 per cent in April.  One contact notes that lower-priced 
merchandise lines are generally selling better than prem ium lines.  Overall, selling prices are reported to 
be stable, and prices paid for merchandise ordered for the 2009 holiday season are little changed from last 
year.  On a weaker note, contacts at two major shopping malls in upstate New York report that sales 
weakened a bit in April and May, following a relativel y stable first quarter, and that a growing number of 
stores have been closing; they also report that pri ce discounting has picked up again.  Auto dealers in 
upstate New York report that sales are down 20 to 30 percent from a year ago.  Declines in unit sales have 
been a bit less pronounced in the Rochester area than in the Buffalo area.  Tight credit remains a major 
constraint, as auto manufacturers have cut back on financing availability. 
II-2 
The Conference Board reports that consumer c onfidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic 
states (NY, NJ, PA), which had fallen to a record lo w in March, rebounded briskly in April and registered 
a further moderate gain in May.  In contrast, tour ism activity in New York C ity has weakened since the 
last report.  Manhattan hotels report that business had picked up modestly in April, but fell back in May, 
with revenues falling nearly 40 percent below a year earlier; this compares with drops of 30 percent in 
April and 35 percent in March.  Similarly, Broadway  theaters report that business picked up in April but 
weakened in May: attendance was up 1 percent from a year earlier in April but down 4 percent in May; 
revenues were up 4 percent in April but down 3 percent in May.   
Construction and Real Estate. Commercial real estate markets in the District were steady to 
weaker since the last report.  Manhattan’s office market continued to deteriorate, with vacancy rates 
climbing and asking rents on Class A space down 17 percent from a year earlier as of the end of May.  However, office markets in surrounding areas, as well as in upstate New York, have remained relatively 
steady thus far in the second quarter.  Vacancy rates and asking rents were little changed in Westchester 
and southwestern Connecticut, and in the Albany and Syracuse areas; conditions weakened slightly in 
Long Island, northern New Jersey, and metropolitan Rochester, while conditions strengthened slightly in 
the Buffalo area.  On the other hand, industry contacts note that the office purchase market remains 
exceptionally sluggish throughout the District, and that there is virtually no new development being 
started.  The rental market for industrial space overa ll continued to soften moderately in April and May, 
as did the rental market for retail space. 
Housing markets remained soft throughout the District, with ongoing deterioration reported in 
New York City—both in the rental and sales markets— but signs of stabilization indicated in other parts 
of the District.  An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry maintains that the market for new homes 
continues to slacken but that the market for existi ng homes appears to have stabilized; sales volume has 
reportedly picked up as sellers have reduced prices, which are now running an estimated 12-15 percent 
below a year ago.  One real estate agent in suburban New Jersey reports that the market for more  
II-3 
moderately-priced homes (under $600K) has picked up somewhat in recent months—some sellers that 
have reduced their prices noticeably have received mu ltiple offers. A contact in the Buffalo area reports 
that sales activity has picked up somewhat since Ma rch and that home values have remained stable.  
Contacts across much of the District indicate that new residential construction has virtually ground to a halt. 
New York City’s apartment sales and rental mark ets have continued to soften since the last 
report.  A leading residential appraisal firm notes that market conditions continue to deteriorate—
particularly for new buildings, many of which are less than half occupied.  Sales activity is reported to be 
down 50 percent from a year ago in Manhattan, and do wn 25-30 percent in Brooklyn and Queens.  Prices 
for Manhattan apartment resales are reported to have fallen by roughly another 5 percent since the first 
quarter and are running roughly 25 percent lower than  a year ago, though price moves have been quite 
erratic due to thin volume.  Manhattan’s rental mark et has also continued to soften, partly reflecting 
increased supply, as many landlords are renting out units that are not selling.  Asking rents are reported to 
be down 5-10 percent from a year earlier in May, but th e decline in effective rents has been much steeper 
due to the widespread and growing practice of waiving of rental fees and offering one or more months of 
free rent.  
Other Business Activity. Contacts in the District’s manufacturing sector report that conditions 
have generally stabilized since the last report, and a majority foresee improvement in business conditions over the next six months.  In assessing the labor market, however, contacts continue to report a 
contracting workforce at their firms, on balance, though employment is expected to level off in the 
months ahead. A trucking industry contact notes that shipping volumes continued to decline in April and 
were down 13 percent from a year earlier—the steepest year-over-year drop since the mid-1990s.   
Contacts in service-sector industries genera lly report that both business conditions and 
employment levels continued to weaken in May.  A securities industry contact notes that firms are generally showing profits in the current quarter, reflec ting low interest rates, an upturn in the equity  
II-4 
markets, and a pickup in underwriting activity.  There are scattered reports of hiring in the financial 
sector—mainly at smaller firms and accounting firms—but these are being swamped by ongoing layoffs 
at large financial firms, mainly related to mergers in the industry.  A leading New York City employment agency notes that, despite some pickup in hiring activ ity, there has been no noticeab le change in the large 
queue of job-seekers; there are very few opportun ities for people now graduating from college, and a 
sizable proportion of 2008 graduates are still looking for work. 
Financial Developments.  Small to medium-sized banks in th e District report mixed results on 
loan demand: increased demand is again noted in the residential mortgage category; demand for loans in 
the commercial and industrial loan category decreased, while demand for consumer loans and commercial 
mortgages held steady.  Bankers continue to note increased demand for refinancing.  For all loan 
categories, respondents indicate a tightening of credit standards, and no banker reports an easing of credit 
standards.  Respondents indicate increased spreads of  loan rates over costs of funds on commercial loans 
and mortgages, on net, but decreased spreads on home mo rtgages; no change is reported in the consumer 
loan category.  Nearly three in four respondents c ite a decrease in the average deposit rate.  Finally, 
bankers report increased delinquency rates for all lo an categories—the proportions reporting increased 
delinquencies range from 28 percent of respondents in the consumer loan category to 44 percent in the 
commercial mortgage loan category. 
III-1 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 Economic activity in the Third District conti nued at a slow rate in May. Manufacturers, on 
balance, reported declines in shipments and new orde rs. Retailers gave mixed reports, noting gains in 
sales during the month at discount stores but weakening sales at stores selling higher-priced merchandise. 
Motor vehicle dealers indicated th at sales remained sluggish. Bank loan  volume has been level in recent 
weeks, and credit quality has continued to deteriorat e. Residential real estate sales showed a slight 
seasonal gain in May but remained below the level of a year ago. Nonresidential real estate investment 
and construction activity continued to be slow. Service-sector activity has been generally slow in recent 
weeks. Business firms in the region reported leve l or falling input costs and output prices in May. 
The outlook in the Third District improved sli ghtly in May. Although contacts do not foresee 
substantial increases in activity in the near term, mo re now believe the decline in economic activity might 
be near a bottom. Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments and orders during the next six months. 
Retailers expect sales to gain strength slowly, but auto dealers expect sales to remain slow for the rest of 
the year. Bankers anticipate little growth in lending.  Residential real estate agents and home builders 
believe market conditions might be stabilizing, but they  do not expect sales to move up solidly until next 
year. Contacts in nonresidential real estate expect l easing and purchase activity to remain weak during the 
balance of the year but perhaps move up somewhat during the fourth quarter. Service-sector firms expect 
activity to be slow during the next few months, at least.  
Manufacturing. Third District manufacturers reported declines in shipments and new orders, on 
balance, from April to May at about the same rate as the decline from March to April. Around 40 percent 
of the manufacturers surveyed noted decreases in both measures, and around 20 percent reported 
increases. Among the District’s major manufacturi ng sectors demand remains especially weak for 
primary metals, industrial machinery, and electrical e quipment. In contrast, producers of furniture, metal 
products, and industrial materials reported some increases in orders during May. 
 
III-2 
The outlook among Third District manufacturers is positive despite the current weakness, and the 
level of optimism has improved since the last Beig e Book. Among firms polled in May, around one-half 
expect new orders and shipments to increase during the next six months and around one-tenth expect 
decreases. However, most of the manufacturers surveyed  in May expect recovery to be slow and uneven. 
Typical comments are “the business outlook is very uncertain,” and “sales improvement will be small.”  
Retail. Third District retailers gave mixed reports  on sales in May. Discounters and other low-
priced stores indicated that sales improved somewhat  during the month, but stores selling luxury brands 
and higher price-point merchandise generally repor ted continuing sluggishness in sales. The chief 
executive of a large chain store said, “We are a va lue proposition, so we are benefitting from uncertain 
economic times.”  In contrast, an executive at a hi gh-fashion chain store said, “Luxury is in the tank.” 
Retailers in the region generally do not expect a str ong improvement in sales during the rest of this year. 
Most are of the opinion that consumers will not st ep up spending significantly until economic conditions 
in general, and employment in particular, rebound. 
Third District auto dealers reported that sales remained very sluggish in May. Dealers said 
demand for motor vehicles continued to be hamp ered by weak economic conditions, limits on the 
availability of financing for vehicle purchases, and c onsumers’ concern about the future of domestic 
automobile manufacturers. Dealers expect sales to remain slow for the rest of the year, and they expect 
closings and consolidation among dealerships to incr ease during the balance of this year and into next 
year.  
Finance. Total outstanding loan volume at Third Dist rict banks has been nearly level in recent 
weeks, according to bankers contacted for this repor t. There has been a small increase in consumer credit 
but decreases in commercial and industrial lending an d residential mortgages. The slowness in business 
lending reflected a general slowdown in  expansion by firms, according to bank lending officers, as well as 
what one described as “a lack of credit-worthy busin ess borrowers.” Most of the banks contacted in May 
said that credit quality continued to deteriorate for a ll categories of lending. Banks have stepped up sales  
III-3 
of repossessed real estate, and they have increased efforts to resolve nonperforming commercial loans. 
Bankers generally expect demand for credit to remain restrained for the near term, although some think 
loan growth could resume slowly toward the end of the year.  
Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity in the Third District in May 
remained well below the level of a year ago, although  residential real estate agents and builders reported a 
seasonal pickup in sales. Real estate agents generally indicated that the sales increase has been relatively 
greater for lower-priced houses than for more expens ive houses. One agent explained, “The lower-price 
range is more active now, with a boost from the firs t-time buyer tax credit.” Agents reported declining 
inventories of both new and existing houses in some pa rts of the region, but in most areas the number of 
days houses are on the market before being sold h as been unchanged since the winter. Builders and real 
estate agents continued to describe current market conditions as “sta bilizing” rather than rebounding. 
Most of those contacted for this report do not expect a solid upturn in residential sales or construction until next year.   
Nonresidential real estate firms indicated that construction, leasing, and purchase activity 
remained low in April and May. Vacancy rates in office and industrial buildings have been rising. 
Economic uncertainty has prompted “short-term transactions, downsizing, and co nsolidation of existing 
spaces,” according to one contact. Rental rates have been easing, with greater declines in Class B than 
Class A buildings, according to leasing agents. Contact s expect nonresidential real estate leasing and 
construction activity to remain weak through the rest of the year, but some believe that lack of new 
construction could result in a tightening in  the market by the end of the year.  
Services. Service-sector firms reported a continuation of  slow activity since the last Beige Book. 
Firms that provide services to the construction and real estate sectors reported declines in business and 
reductions in employment. The region’s service-sector firms generally anticipate that soft conditions will 
persist for most of the balance of the year. Some  business service firms said they expect business to  
 
III-4 
improve next year, and a few said they were maki ng plans to expand by making acquisitions or by 
extending the range of services they offer.   
Prices. Reports on input costs and output prices indicate mostly steady or falling prices since the 
last Beige Book. Manufacturing firms noted decreases for most of the materials they use as well as the 
products they make. Construction firms said the pri ces of most building materials have been steady, 
although there have been recent incr eases for a limited number of products. Retailers indicated that their 
cost of goods has been about steady, and they have  kept selling prices in check. Several contacts noted 
that there has been an increased effort to reduce costs in their industries. For example, a retailer said 
suppliers of some merchandise have eliminated certain features or substituted less expensive materials in 
their products, and a builder noted that he has redesi gned some houses to reduce material and labor costs. 
 
IV-1 
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Economic activity in the Fourth District weakened somewhat since mid-April.  Reports from 
factories show an appreciable decline in production and new orders.  Residential construction remains 
weak, while commercial and industrial building decreased.  Commercial and residential builders reported 
that project financing is very difficult to obtain.  On balance, sales by District retailers were stable.  New 
motor vehicle sales slowed, while purchases of used vehicles showed a modest improvement.  Coal 
production fell substantially, with little  change noted in oil and gas output.  Freight transport volume 
remains at low levels.  Refinancing applications for residential mortgages remain very strong, though 
other types of consumer lending were characterized as stable.  Commercial and industrial lending activity 
is mixed.  Core deposits grew strongly.    
Employment declines were seen in manufacturing, commercial construction, and energy.  
Staffing firms reported a falloff in job openings.  Given the weak labor market, wage pressures are 
contained.  For the most part, input and product pri ces were stable or declining.  Capital spending has 
been frozen or trimmed back to main ly critical maintenance projects.   
Manufacturing.  Reports from  District factories show that production had either stabilized at low 
levels or declined further during the past eight weeks.   Almost a third of our contacts noted a downward 
trend in new orders.  On a year-over-year basis, factory output fell sharply.  Manufacturers expect 
demand will stay below 2008 levels through the remai nder of 2009.  A majority of steel producers and 
service centers reported that the sharp decline in ship ping volume is showing signs of leveling off, but 
volume remains at depressed levels.  The only end mark et cited as showing some stability is defense.  
Most respondents anticipate a bottoming out in the third quarter, although the steel industry is not expected to turnaround through year’s end.  District auto production showed a small rise during April on a month-over-month basis due to an increase in foreign nameplate output.  On a year-over-year basis, both 
domestic makers and foreign na meplates experienced a sharp drop in production.      
 
IV-2 
Most of our contacts reported that their capital budgets are frozen or have been cut back 
significantly.  Some manufacturers told us that th ey are limiting expenditures to critical maintenance 
projects.  Capital spending is expected to stay at de pressed levels until the economy turns around.  For the 
most part, raw materials prices and product pricing were  stable or declined, and little inflationary pressure 
is expected during the next 12 months.  A majority of  our respondents made further reductions in payroll 
costs through layoffs, wage cuts, and reductions in production hours.  Predictably, wage pressures are 
contained.  
Real Estate.  Although the residential construction in dustry remains weak, most builders are 
more optimistic than earlier in the year.  A majority of survey respondents reported an uptick in sales activity and a significant boost in Internet and foot traffic since our last report.  However, an equal 
number noted that their sales are also down on a year- over-year basis.  Most builders are finding it very 
difficult to obtain financing and believe the existing credit environment will impede a recovery in the housing industry.  Builders expect that activity will rema in at current levels for the next few months, but 
are hopeful that a sustained pick-up may be forthcoming by year’s end.  A majority of builders reported dropping the list prices of homes between 3 and 10 percent during the past couple of months, with little 
change in discounting.  General contractors continue to operate with skeleton crews, and subcontractors 
are readily available at competitive prices. 
Reports on nonresidential construc tion activity were mixed, but leaned toward the downside.  
Builders involved in public works projects were more  positive in their outlook than those in commercial 
and industrial development.  In general, backlogs  and inquiries are down significantly on a year-over-year 
basis.  We heard numerous reports of difficulties in obtaining financing that resulted in some projects 
being delayed or shut down.  Looking forward, most commercial builders do not see conditions 
improving during the next few months .  Construction materials prices are stable to declining, while 
subcontractors are readily available at very competitiv e rates.  A few general contractors reduced their 
workforce since our last report.    
IV-3 
Consumer Spending.  Reports showed that April sales for District retailers were mixed on a 
month-over-month basis, though none of our survey respondents indicated a major shift in activity.  
Further, most retailers expect little change during the third quarter, with the exception of food sellers, who 
anticipate a rise in sales.  On balance, vendor and retail pricing has been stable.  Accounts from auto 
dealers indicate that new vehicle sales slowed duri ng the past few weeks, while purchases of used 
vehicles showed a modest improvement.  Most dealers believe that until the major issues affecting the auto industry are resolv ed, they will not experience a sustained increase in new vehicle sales.  On the 
whole, there has been little change in staffing levels at  retailers and auto dealers.  Capital expenditures by 
retailers remain on plan, but have b een trimmed back from 2008 levels.   
Banking.   Demand for commercial and industrial loans is decidedly mixed, with several 
community bankers commenting that they continue to attract business from regional competitors.  In 
general, interest rates on business loans are holding steady.  On the cons umer side, refinancing 
applications for residential mortgages remain very st rong, as interest rates stayed low.  Other types of 
consumer lending were characterized as stable, w ith little change in loan pricing.  Some survey 
respondents reported increased activity in auto loans, esp ecially for used vehicles.  Core deposits have 
risen sharply, even as competition for deposits has lessened.  On balance, credit quality for consumer and 
business loan applicants has deteriorated slightly.  Most bankers reported an increase in the number of 
loan delinquencies, especially those tied to real estate.  Higher lending standards remain firmly in place, 
with no easing expected.  There has been little change  in staffing levels, though some banks reported 
cutting the number of hours worked and delaying the hiring of replacement workers.   
Energy.  Coal executives reported production declin es, and they do not see a turnaround until 
electric utilities work through their ex cess coal inventories.  Little change in oil and gas production was 
reported, though drilling activity has declined substan tially in most regions.  Coal prices have dropped 
sharply, while natural gas prices remain depressed and oil prices are beginning to rise.  Prices paid for 
production equipment and materials were stable to dec lining.  Capital spending by coal producers has  
IV-4 
been cut back and is restricted to some critical maintenance projects, while expenditures by oil and gas 
producers remain as projected.  We heard several report s of workforce reductions and cuts in overtime.    
Transportation.  Freight transport executives reported that shipping volume remains at low 
levels; however, the drop-off experienced earlier this year has abated.  On average, shipments are down 
substantially on a year-over-year basis across all market segments.  Any recent uptick in business was 
attributed to seasonal factors.  Most survey respondent s expect activity to stay at current levels through at 
least the third quarter of 2009.  Shipping rat es remain competitive, while vendor prices show little 
movement.  Capital spending is belo w 2008 levels, and expenditures are restricted to replacement only.  
On the labor front, hiring is limited to driver turnover,  and we heard a few reports of wage cuts or freezes.  
V-1 
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND 
Overview. Although economic activity in the Fifth Dist rict remained sluggish in recent weeks, 
some encouraging trends are beginning to emerge . District manufacturers reported a rise in demand as 
new orders and shipments grew. Contacts at District ports observed weak conditions, but noted signs of 
potential improvement. Residential lending activity picked up as contacts noted an increase in purchase 
loans, while residential real estate agents also repor ted an overall uptick in sales activity. Commercial real 
estate contacts observed a modest increase in leasing activity, although vacancy rates inched up in most 
markets and reports of rent declines and concessions  were common. Nonetheless, demand for commercial 
loans remained weak with some continued deterior ation in credit quality. Retail revenues – including big-
ticket sales – generally declined since our last report, as did revenues at services firms. Retail price growth slowed, according to contacts, while prices at services firms declined. Temporary employment 
activity was weak, although some agents expected improvement in the next few months.  
Retail. Retail sales were generally down in recent weeks, although there were scattered reports of 
improvement. Most retailers said sales contracted; however, contacts at several grocery stores and executives at two central North Carolina chain departme nt stores said revenues and foot traffic increased 
in recent weeks. Big-ticket sales, including sales of au tomobiles and light trucks, fell sharply; however, 
contacts at a few auto dealerships expressed optimis m for sales in the months ahead. Despite losing a 
franchise contract, a dealership in West Virginia will continue to sell other makes of vehicles, including imports. A Washington, D.C., area automobile dealer told us that his business was “hiring and ramping up 
inventory.” Employment reductions continued at many  retail establishments. Average retail wages edged 
up, although a contact at a chain department store and another at a hardware store chain reported wage 
freezes for all employees in 2009.  Retail price growth slowed since our last report.  
 
 
V-2 
Services. Revenues weakened at services-providing firms in recent weeks. Contacts at 
professional, scientific, and technical services firms said business had slowed; an executive at a northern 
Virginia telecommunications firm reported “losing bu siness to freelancers who will work for anything.”  
In addition, executives at healthcare systems and hos pitals noted steady to slower demand for services, 
and restaurant owners across the District reported lower year-over-year sales. Services firms cut workers 
and average wages were lower. Prices fell slightly at services businesses. 
Manufacturing.  District manufacturing activity rebounde d in late April and May following 12 
months of decline. Contacts reported strong increases in new orders and shipments and noted that the 
recent weakness in employment had moderated somewhat . In particular, demand was notably stronger for 
apparel, chemicals, fabricated metal, food, furnitu re, lumber, and stone manufacturers. A producer of 
residential doors in North Carolina told us that dema nd had picked up slightly, which he attributed to 
customers needing to replenish depleted inventories.  A primary metals producer in South Carolina also 
reported an uptick in sales due to an increase in demand for storm windows and doors used in 
constructing mobile and modular homes. A contact at  a chemical manufacturing firm in South Carolina 
noted a pickup in orders and was optimistic about the next few months. On the price front, contacts 
indicated that raw materials prices grew at a quicker pace, while finished goods prices grew more slowly. 
Activity at District ports remained weak in r ecent months, but contacts noted signs of possible 
improvement. An increased number of empty containers were shipped out of one District port – indicating 
a potential rise in imports in the near future – while exports at another port were “finally starting to 
move.” Total shipments, however, were still notably below year-ago levels.    
 Finance. Demand for residential mortgages picked up somewhat since our last report. Contacts 
noted an uptick in purchase loans, which accounted for approximately 50 percent of lending activity. Demand for refinances began to wane in some pockets of the Fifth District in recent weeks as interest 
rates edged up slightly, while loan officers in ot her areas reported difficulty keeping up with the 
continued demand for refinances as purchases took priority . Credit standards were generally unchanged  
V-3 
since our April report, but contacts noted some m odifications to conform with Freddie and Fannie 
guidelines. In commercial finance, demand for loans re mained weak. Commercial loan rates were flat to 
slightly higher, with contacts reporting floors added to variable rates. Credit standards in commercial 
lending were also generally unchanged. Lenders reported continued dete rioration in the credit quality of 
existing clients, although the rate of deterioration had subsided a bit.  
 Real Estate. District residential real estate agents gene rally reported an uptick in sales activity in 
recent weeks, which a few agents attributed to seasona l increases. Agents in Washington, D.C., Charlotte, 
N.C., and Greensboro, N.C., reported increased foreclosure sales. The Charlotte contact reported 
foreclosure sales to be “outrageous” and noted that  foreclosures accounted for half of his agency’s 
business. Multiple offers on the same properties we re observed in the D.C., area. An agent in 
Fredericksburg, Va., reported that her inventory level had dropped by 10 pe rcent, and a Realtor in Fairfax, 
Va., noted strengthening sales across the board, which he attributed to low interest rates. Most Realtors 
mentioned that the low- to middle-priced houses were selling the best and several agents said that first-time homebuyers dominated that market. House pri ces were reported to be dropping or holding steady 
across much of the District.  
In commercial real estate markets, leasing activ ity increased modestly since our last report, 
although it continued at a slow pace. Agents in northern Virginia, Charleston, W.Va., Greensboro, 
Charlotte, and Columbia, S.C., reported a slight uptick in leasing activity – mostly for office and 
industrial properties. Elsewhere in the Fifth District, however, contacts reported the pace of leasing 
activity as unchanged or slower in recent weeks. Rental  rates declined across most District markets while 
concessions remained common. Charleston, W.Va., was an exception, however, as contacts saw no 
concessions and observed a proposed rent increase for one renegotiation. Vacancy rates inched up across 
property types in most markets and available sublease space increased in Washington, D.C., Raleigh, 
N.C., and Charlotte, although the Ch arlotte contact noted that available space was not near 2001 levels. 
Commercial sales activity remained subdued. Agents re ported some listings and interest, but noted that  
V-4 
reduced property values were discouraging sellers fro m listing properties, and a lack of affordable 
financing was deterring buyers. Sales prices started to  come down in northern Virginia and Charlotte, but 
a lack of transactions made prices hard to gauge in other markets.  
 Tourism. Although tourist activity along the coast was a bit weaker compared to a year ago, 
contacts on the Outer Banks of North Carolina and in Vi rginia Beach, Va., told us that bookings over the 
Memorial Day weekend were somewhat  stronger when compared to our last report. A manager at a hotel 
in Virginia Beach said they were filled to capacity  over the Memorial Day weekend and bookings had 
generally started to look better in recent weeks. A contact from the Outer Banks of North Carolina noted 
that the wedding industry showed no sign of cutting back, but indicated that rental sales and hotel 
bookings were somewhat weaker than last year. Howeve r, a manager at a mountain resort in Virginia said 
holiday bookings were somewhat stronger than last year, and time share sales were robust. The contact 
also expected tourist activity to be equally as strong six months from now. 
 Temporary Employment. Activity in this sector continued to be generally weak in recent weeks. 
A Raleigh, N.C., agent told us that demand for his wo rkers would continue to be extremely slow over the 
next several weeks due, in part, to a slowdown in ma nufacturing work; however, he expected a substantial 
pick up in July. Another agent in the Raleigh area an ticipated stronger demand due to the improvement in 
confidence in the business community. Meanwhile, a Richmond, Va., contact observed “somewhat weak” 
demand, citing the sluggish economy. Workers skilled in IT, management, administrative assistance, and 
sales were some of the most sought after.  
 Agriculture. Sunny, dry conditions fac ilitated planting and field work in many areas of the 
District. However, rain and below-average temperat ures hindered soybean and peanut plantings in South 
Carolina, while pasture conditions in the state im proved notably. In Maryland, North Carolina, and 
Virginia, farmers were busy planting vegetables and row crops. Peach harvesting had just begun in South 
Carolina. Peach and apple conditions in West Virginia ranged from fair to excellent, with most orchards  
 
V-5 
in good condition. In addition, hay harvesting was wi despread in Maryland, the Carolinas, and Virginia 
with reports indicating that the first cut looked very good.  
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Sixth District business contacts reported that economic activity continued to contract 
in late April and May, although the pace of decline ha d moderated in some industries and most noted that 
their outlook had improved.  Information from retailers was consistent with slug gish consumer spending, 
but sales were largely in line with modest expectations .  Most auto dealers noted  further declines in sales, 
while tourism-related spending slowed further in late  spring.  Real estate contacts suggested that ongoing 
weakness in home sales had moderated in several areas and inventories of unsold single-family homes 
were trending down.  However, most commercial cons truction reports remained negative as vacancy rates 
continued to rise.  Fewer manufacturers cited reduced production and orders than in the previous report, 
although overall activity remained quite weak.  Ba nking contacts remarked that general business and 
consumer loan demand was soft.  Labor market conditions continued to be weak, although fewer firms 
reported layoffs than earlier in the year.  Price pressures remained relatively stable throughout the 
District.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Sales and traffic remained at low levels in late April and 
May, but largely in line with modest expectations a ccording to District retailers.  Merchants’ outlook 
remained subdued with regard to future sales.  Most  regional auto dealers noted further declines in sales, 
with several pointing to reduced credit availability and industry uncertainty as reasons for the poor results.    
Tourism-related spending weakened according to several contacts.  Although theme park 
attendance and cruise bookings were relatively stab le, promotions and discounting were acknowledged as 
playing a significant role.  Overall, vacationers we re said to be spending l ess.  In addition, inbound 
international travel continued to trend down fro m a year earlier, while business-related travel and 
convention attendance also declined. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Reports from Realtors indicated that existing home sales were 
stabilizing overall.  Florida contacts noted that th e steady improvement in sales over the past several 
months moderated somewhat in April, whereas other parts of the District experienced minor gains over  
VI-2 
the month.  Homebuilders noted that new home inventories were trending down on a year-over-year basis 
as construction remained at low levels and new home sales improved modestly.  Home sales prices 
continued to decline according to most reports.  The outlook for sales strengthened in April according to 
most Realtor and homebuilder contacts.   
Commercial real estate activity remained weak.  Va cancy rates continued to rise in many parts of 
the District, putting downward pressure on rents, most notably in the retail sector.  Contractors reported 
more projects being postponed or cancelled.  Commerc ial real estate contacts anticipate more space will 
become vacant in the coming months and th at construction will continue to slow. 
Manufacturing and Transportation.   Most regional manufacturers indicated that the rate of 
decline in production and orders had moderated in April.  For the coming months, most manufacturing 
contacts noted more optimism regarding future production and employment than in previous reports. 
District transportation contacts reported ongoing weakness in freight activity through mid-May 
compared with a year earlier.  Auto, chemical, and c onstruction-related rail shipments declined further.  
Trucking contacts servicing the retail industry no ted much lower tonnage than a year earlier.  
 Banking and Finance.  Several business contacts reported di fficulty meeting financing needs 
because of restricted availability of credit. Roughly one-quarter of non-auto retailers, and one-third of 
non-financial/non-retail contacts cited some difficulty  obtaining loans for inve ntory purposes.  Auto 
dealers, in particular, said that obtaining vehicle inventory financing was very challenging.  Banking 
contacts continued to indicate gene rally low levels of demand for new loans and increased use of existing 
lines of credit.   
Employment and Prices.  Labor market conditions continued to  be weak.  Many firms reported 
additional cuts in hours or had instituted mandatory u npaid days off for some staff.  State and local 
governments were also reducing payrolls because of budgetary pressure.  However, the pace of layoffs 
appears to have slowed, as fewer firms reported layoffs than earlier in the year.  There were also scattered  
 
VI-3 
reports of increased temp hiring, although several  contacts noted that these positions were largely 
seasonal in nature.   
Homebuilders and manufacturing firms continued to report that prices paid for both raw materials 
and imported finished goods were below year-earlie r levels.  Retailers noted a reduction in price 
discounting compared to previous months, and a majority of merchants reported that selling prices were 
generally on par with a year earlier. 
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  District energy contacts indicated that a growing portion 
of energy production in the region has been idled in response to lower prices earlier in the year.  
However, one major production facility in the Gulf of Mexico began operations in May.  The platform is 
expected to make a major contribution to nati onal oil and natural gas output once it reaches full 
production.   
Above normal rainfall soaked most District farm areas.  District growers experienced a pickup in 
prices and are hoping for a continue d rebound in the coming months. 
VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  Overall, economic activity in the Seventh District weakened in April and May. 
Consumer spending decreased and the pace of busin ess spending slowed. Constr uction activity continued 
to be weak, although residential real estate cond itions showed some improvement. Both manufacturing 
activity and labor market conditions deteriorated further. Credit conditions improved, but remained tight 
for some firms. Downward pressure on prices and wa ges diminished. Wet weather delayed planting of 
both corn and soybeans in the District. 
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending decreased from th e previous reporting period. Retail 
sales fell, with households remaining focused on necessities and holding back spending on luxury and 
big-ticket items. Inventories were indicated to be very  low in anticipation of sluggish sales. Auto dealers 
reported a small increase in sales in recent weeks as a result of incentives and promotions, but not a large 
enough pickup to completely offset the drop in vehicl e demand earlier in the reporting period. Inventories 
remained high, and several dealers indicated that they continued to be concerned with obtaining floor plan 
financing. In contrast, used car sales were stronge r and service department activity was robust. Contacts 
also expressed the belief that although the closing of dealerships will likely we igh heavily on Chrysler 
and GM in the near term, it would improve the long-term profitability of both the companies and their 
dealers. In addition, a contact noted that many of  the affected dealerships had already significantly 
reduced their operations. 
Business spending.  The pace of business spending slowed in April and May. Several contacts 
reported postponing capital expenditures until economi c activity improves, which most saw taking place 
near the end of this year. In contrast, a contact noted that many of his retail customers had resumed 
renovation and expansion plans they had put on hold last year when credit conditions first tightened. 
Labor market conditions in the District continued to deteriorate. Job losses in professional services were 
noted to have increased, and additional layoffs were re ported in manufacturing, most notably in the auto  
VII-2 
sector. In addition, a contact noted that some local government entities had cut back on hiring due to 
budget constraints. Some contacts again indicated tr ying to avoid layoffs and retain skilled labor by 
further reducing hours per worker. A staffing firm re ported that billable hours had stabilized in recent 
weeks.  However, hiring remained low outside of ed ucation, healthcare, and technical fields such as 
engineering and information technology, and contacts indicated that most firms remained cautious about 
expanding their work forces.  
Construction/real estate .  Overall, construction activity in the District remained weak. 
Residential construction was minimal, and housing in ventory remained elevated. However, residential 
real estate conditions improved some from the pr evious reporting period. Several contacts reported 
increases in showroom traffic and sales in both the single and multi-family markets driven by recent 
declines in prices and mortgage rates. Sales were c oncentrated in lower priced homes reflecting what a 
contact indicated was a trend toward smaller, high amenity houses. Refinancing also continued to be 
strong, although some potential borrowers were findi ng it difficult to qualify for loans due to losses in 
home equity. Nonresidential construction declined fu rther, with previous areas of strength such as 
infrastructure and healthcare weakening. Property va lues and rents also declined, as vacancy rates and 
available sublease space increased, particularly in th e office and retail sectors. Industrial construction 
activity also was weak, with one contact noting can cellation of a substantial amount of his business from 
automotive suppliers. In addition, developers again cited limited credit availability. A contact indicated 
that while funds were available for investment in di stressed real estate, lending for new projects remained 
limited. 
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing activity in the District weakened, with only pharmaceuticals, 
power generation, and defense-rela ted aerospace experiencing strength in demand. Exporters reported that 
the demand from abroad was weak apart from Asia. St eel service center inventories remained lean, 
although several manufacturers noted that their distribu tors were still working through their higher-priced 
inventories. Other metals-related industries also noted weak conditions, although some contacts indicated  
VII-3 
that the pace of decline in activity had leveled o ff. Reports from contacts with exposure to the auto 
industry were particularly negative. Several au tomotive and other manufacturing contacts reported 
planning to continue to make use of temporary pr oduction shutdowns through the rest of the year. In 
contrast, automakers indicated that sales in May, while  low, were above expectations and that inventories 
were at desirable levels. Manufacturers of heavy truc ks and machinery cited furt her weakness in demand. 
Contacts also noted that elevated inventories were pu tting pressure on distributors, and that the decline in 
rental business and a robust used equipment market was contributing to fewer sales of new equipment. 
Manufacturers with ties to housing indicated that activity continued to be soft. However, a contact in the 
home appliance industry noted recent signs of stabilization in the pace of decline.   
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions in the District improved in April and May, but remained 
tight for some firms. Financial market contacts indi cated an increased appetite for risk on the part of 
investors. Merger and acquisition interest from abroad  was noted to have increased, and private equity 
was indicated to be more available with deals being made in the industrial and real estate sectors. Furthermore, a contact reported that financing co sts for a number of area corporations had improved 
substantially since the previous reporting period. Banking contacts indicated that the tightening of standards had abated, but uncertainty over further pr ice declines in real estate markets and the resolution 
of the GM and Chrysler bankruptcies limited lending  to these sectors. Contacts also expressed concern 
about commercial real estate, noting that declining values and downward pressure on rents was leading to 
requests for renegotiation of loans by property ow ners. With many of these loans coming due for 
refinancing between now and 2011, there was also concern about their quality.  A contact cited as 
evidence of this fact recent ratings downgrades and increases in CMBS spreads.      
Prices/costs .  Contacts again reported closely monitoring their costs. However, downward wage 
pressures were less prevalent during this reporting period as contacts indicated firms were instead 
containing labor costs by reducing workers’ hours or by cutting their labor forces. Prices declined further 
for inputs such as steel.  Energy prices increased, but a contact noted that gas stations have not been able  
VII-4 
to pass on all of the recent increase to fuel prices.  More generally though, materials prices were little 
changed during this reporting period.  This stability occurred despite the view of some contacts that prices 
had not fallen as much as had been expected given the sharp decline in activity in sectors such as 
manufacturing and construction.  
Agriculture .  Wet fields forced delays in planting during April and May in the District, 
particularly in Illinois and Indiana. By the end of the reporting period, farmers had planted over half of 
their corn acres. Still, corn planting was behind th e typical pace except in Iowa. Soybean planting was 
behind as well. Also, the emergence of corn and soyb ean plants lagged normal rates across much of the 
District.  Lower milk, cattle, and hog prices and higher costs for feed worsened the income prospects for 
livestock producers. Hog farmers had an especially di fficult spring due to the large drop in hog prices 
after the H1N1virus (swine flu) scare.  However,  hog prices had recovered some by the end of the 
reporting period. Fertilizer sellers booked losses as fa rmers held back on purchases in anticipation of 
recent wholesale price declines showing through downstream. 
 
 
 
 
VIII-1 
EIGHTH DISTRICT—ST. LOUIS  
Summary.    The economy of the Eighth Distr ict has weakened further since  our previous 
report.  Activity in the manufac turing and service sectors declined further.  Retail and auto sales in 
April and the first half of May  were down from a year ago.  Res idential and commercial real estate 
markets continue to be weak.  Ove rall lending at a sample of large District banks decreased 
moderately during the fi rst quarter of 2009.   
Consumer  Spending.  Contacts reported that retail s ales in April and the first hal f of May 
were down, on average, over year‐earlier levels.  About 56 perc ent of the retailers surveyed saw 
decreases in sales, 40 percent saw increases, and 4 percent saw  no change.  Abo ut 39 percent of 
respondents reported that sales levels met their expectations,  33 percent reported that sales were 
below expectations, and 28 percent reported that sales were abo ve expectations.  Lawn and garden 
products were strong sellers, wh ile bedroom furniture moved mor e slowly.  About 40 percent of 
contacts reported that inventori es were at desired levels, 44 p ercent reported too‐high inventories, 
and 16 percent reported too‐low  inventories.  About 52 percent  of retailers expect summer sales to 
decrease over 2008 levels, 32 percent expect sales to increase,  and 16 percent expect sales to be 
unchanged. 
Car dealers in the District reported that, compared with last year, sales in April and the first half 
of May were down, on average.  About 83 percent of  the car dealers surveyed  saw decreases in sales, 13 
percent saw increases, and 4 percent saw no change.  A bout 21 percent of the car dealers noted that used 
car sales had increased relative to new car sales, while  17 percent reported the opposite.  Also, 29 percent 
reported an increase in low-end vehicle sales relative to high-end vehicle sales, while 8 percent reported 
the opposite.  About 58 percent repor ted more rejections of finance a pplications, and none reported fewer 
rejections.  About 29 percent of the car dealers survey ed reported that their inventories were too high,  
VIII-2 
while 25 percent reported that their inventories were t oo low.  About 71 percent of the car dealers expect 
summer sales to decrease over 2008 levels, 21 percen t expect sales to increase, and the remaining 8 
percent expect sales to be unchanged. 
Manufacturing  and Other Business  Activity.  Manufacturing activity has continued to 
decline since our previous report.  A large number of firms announced job layoffs a nd contraction of 
production, while a much smaller number of contacts reported pl ans to hire additional workers.  
Several manufacturers reported plans to close plants and reduce operations in the near future.  
Several firms in the auto parts  and automobile manufacturing in dustries reported plans to 
permanently lay off workers, and  at least one firm announced th at it will close its operations in the 
District.  Two firms in metal pr oduct manufacturing announced plans to close a facility in the 
District.  Firms in primary meta l manufacturing announced layof fs and idled production.  Firms in 
machinery manufacturing and furn iture manufacturing also closed plants, and a major firm in 
animal slaughtering/processing i dled production.  Finally, a nu mber of firms in the machinery, 
climate control systems, food/beverage, electrical components,  paper, and plastic product 
manufacturing industries announc ed job layoffs.  In contrast, a  firm in furniture manufacturing and 
another firm in food/beverage ma nufacturing anno unced plans to  hire additional workers and 
expand existing operations.   
The District's service sector has continued to d ecline in most areas since our previous report.  
Contacts in education, government, medical, and information services announced job cuts.  Two firms in 
transportation/warehousing services announced that they will close a facility in the District and lay off workers.  Several cities in the District announced th at they will be hiring temporary and part-time summer 
workers in a range of service industries, using fu nds allocated through the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009. 
VIII‐3 
Real Estate and Construction.  Home sales continued to decline throughout the Eighth 
District.  Compared with the sam e period in 2008, April 2009 ye ar‐to‐date home sales were down 
13 percent in St. Louis, 23 perce nt in Little Rock, 26 percent  in Louisville, and 27 percent in 
Memphis.  Residential constructi on also continued to decline th roughout most of the District.  April 
2009 year‐to‐date single‐family h ousing permits fell in most Di strict metro areas compared with 
the same period in 2008. Permits declined 29 percent in Little  Rock, 46 percent in Louisville, 45 
percent in St. Louis, and  61 percent in Memphis. 
Commercial and industrial real estate market  conditions were little changed throughout the 
District.  Compared with the fourth quarter of 200 8, first quarter 2009 industrial vacancy rates increased 
in Little Rock but held steady in St. Louis, Louisv ille, and Memphis.  During the same period, suburban 
office vacancy rates remained roughl y the same in St. Louis, Louisville, and Memphis but decreased in 
Little Rock.  Downtown offi ce vacancy rates remained fairly consta nt in St. Louis, Louisville, and Little 
Rock but increased slightly in Memphis.  Commercia l and industrial construction markets continued to 
decline.  Commercial construction contacts throughout the District noted that current credit conditions are 
stifling new projects and that the overall outlook for th e upcoming months is dim.   Industrial construction 
contacts reported that the effects of the recession are just now being fully realized  as backlogs have dried 
up and more projects are being put on hold. 
Banking and Finance. A survey of senior loan officer s at a sample of large District banks showed 
a moderate decrease in overall lending activity in the firs t quarter of 2009 relative to the fourth quarter of 
2008.  During this period, credit standards for comme rcial and industrial loans ranged from unchanged to 
tightened somewhat, while demand for these loans ranged from about th e same to moderately weaker.  
Credit standards for commercial re al estate loans were tightened during this period, while demand for 
these loans was weaker.  Credit standards for c onsumer loans ranged from unchanged to tightened 
somewhat, while demand varied slightly from weaker to moderately stronger. Credit standards for  
VIII-4 
residential mortgages were tightened, while de mand for these loans ranged from about the same to 
moderately weaker. 
Agriculture  and Natural Resources.  Frequent wet and cool conditions since early April 
have caused fieldwork delays thr oughout the District.  Planting  of the major crops—corn, soybeans, 
sorghum, cotton, and rice—was behind its 5‐year average pace.   Emergence of the major crops was 
also behind normal throughout most of the District.  At least 8 0 percent of the winter wheat and at 
least 88 percent of the pastures in every District state were r ated fair or better.  The average rating 
for pastures in the District sta tes was slightly better, while  the average rating for winter wheat was 
slightly worse than the same time last year. 
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT—MINNEAPOLIS 
The contraction in the Ninth District economy mode rated since the last report. Modest decreases in 
activity occurred in the consumer spending, services, r esidential construction and real estate, agriculture 
and manufacturing sectors. More substantial drops in activity were noted in commercial construction and 
real estate, and in the energy and mining sectors. Spring tourism activity was mixed, and residential real 
estate saw more activity. Labor markets continued to  weaken, and wage increases were modest. Price 
increases remained subdued.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism. Consumer spending remained soft, but improved somewhat 
from the previous few months. A major Minneapolis-based  retailer reported that same-store sales in April 
were essentially flat compared with a year earlier. Re cent sales at a Minneapolis area mall were about even 
with a year ago, as a decrease in sales of luxury ite ms was offset by an increase in sales of more basic 
goods. Business at a North Dakota mall ran flat to mildly down in May, according to the mall manager. A 
Montana mall manager noted that sales in April were  down from a year ago, but more stores were posting 
increases than during the previous few months. A M ontana pawnshop owner noted a 25 percent increase in 
items pawned during the first four months of 2009 comp ared with a year ago. Meanwhile, an executive at a 
food processing company in Minnesota noted that sales of refrigerated party trays were strong.  
Representatives of auto dealers associations in the District reported that a number of domestic 
dealerships will be closed in their states. A representative of an auto dealers association in South Dakota 
noted that dealerships were selling some vehicles, but consumers were not buying as they have in the 
past.  
Tourism activity was mixed. According to results of a survey by Minnesota’s tourism department, 
57 percent of lodging businesses saw revenue and o ccupancy fall in April and May compared with the 
same period a year ago. Spring tourism activity in western South Dakota was up slightly from a year ago, but advance bookings for summer lodging were lower than last year. Tourism activity over Memorial Day  
 
IX-2 
weekend in northwestern Wisconsin was strong, and summer reservations at campgrounds and resorts 
were at solid levels, according to a representative of a chamber of commerce.  
Services. Services sector activity decreased overall since th e last report. Preliminary results of the 
Minneapolis Fed’s annual survey of professional servi ces companies in May showed decreased levels of 
sales revenue, employment and profits from a year ago; profits are expected to fall further over the next 
year.  Respondents indicated that labor is more available, but input costs are increasing. Architects reported continued weak demand for their services.  
Construction and Real Estate. Commercial construction was anemic. A Minnesota commercial 
contractor said new construction activity was down significantly from the previous year. Nonresidential permits fell 75 percent in value in Sioux Falls, S. D., from a year earlier. Residential construction was 
steady at low levels. The value of new housing permits in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area increased in April 
from the previous month, but was down 14 percent from the same month a year earlier and 72 percent from two years ago. Residential construction activity was about even with last year in Rochester, Minn. 
 Commercial real estate activity was very slow. The Minneapolis-St. Paul office vacancy rate 
increased in the first quarter of 2009 from the previous quarters, and is expected to increase further in the 
second quarter, according to a commercial real estate fi rm based there. The same firm expects retail 
vacancy to increase and industrial vacancy to remain stable. The residential real estate market saw more 
activity. Late May home sales in Minneapolis-St. Paul  were up more than a third from the same period a 
year earlier, while new listings were down more than 10 percent. 
Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity decreased since the last report. A May survey of 
purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha , Neb.) indicated that activity declined in 
Minnesota and the Dakotas.  In Montana, several  saw mills plan to shut down. A North Dakota 
construction equipment manufacturer cut production in  response to weak demand. A Minnesota electronic 
components manufacturer reduced production. Some manufacturing contacts from various industries reported some stability of demand after huge drops ear lier in the year. Window makers reported increased  
IX-3 
demand, and a Montana paper mill restarted a production line.  
Energy and Mining. Activity in the energy and mining sector s continued to fall. Late May oil 
and gas exploration tumbled from early April. However, a number of wind energy projects are moving 
forward. Several District mines curtailed production  and shuttered operations.  However, District gold 
mines are at near-capacity production.  
Agriculture. Agricultural conditions were hampered by a dverse conditions since the last report. 
Storms caused havoc on calving, as many contacts reported significantly higher than normal deaths. Farmers in the Dakotas were forced to delay plan tings due to very wet fields.  Meanwhile, drought 
conditions persisted in  western Wisconsin.  
Employment, Wages and Prices. Labor markets continued to weaken. In Minnesota, a medical 
devices firm recently announced plans to eliminate 600 jobs by the end of June, and a cabinetmaker laid 
off 200 employees during the first few months of 2009. Two health care providers in Minnesota recently 
announced plans to cut 240 and 100 jobs, respectivel y. Meanwhile, a Minnesota hospital will eliminate 75 
to 100 positions by the end of June. In North Dakota, a construction equipment manufacturer announced plans to cut 250 jobs, and a business travel call center recently closed, affecting 100 jobs. According to 
the Minnesota Department of Employment and Econ omic Development, job seekers are taking 20 weeks 
to find new jobs compared with 13 weeks a year ago. The South Dakota Labor Department noted that 
preliminary indications for summer employment in 2009 were uncertain, students could find themselves 
competing with laid-off primary wage earners.  
 Wage increases were modest. Businesses respondi ng to the Minneapolis Fed’s services survey 
reported expected wage increases at their firms of 1. 8 percent and benefit increases of 1.5 percent over the 
next four quarters. 
Price increases remained subdued. A representative of a construction company in South Dakota 
noted that costs this spring were about the same  as in 2008; lower lumber and drywall prices were 
balanced by slightly higher prices for fixtures, wiring and components. In the aforementioned services  
IX-4 
survey, 20 percent of respondents expect selling prices to decrease during the upcoming year, while 21 
percent expect selling prices to increase. However, Minnesota gasoline prices were up almost 50 cents per 
gallon at the end of May compared with April, but still $1.38 lower than a year ago. 
X-1 
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
The Tenth District economy declined at a slower pace in April and May with firmer expectations 
of improvement going forward. Consumer spending was weak and was expected to remain soft. An 
uptick in manufacturing orders helped stabilize expectations for future production. Residential real estate 
activity strengthened with stronge r sales and increased building permits.  In contrast, commercial real 
estate market conditions deteriorated, and energy ac tivity declined further. Crop conditions held steady 
while livestock producers cut herds. Bankers reported a rise in deposits and stable loan demand with no erosion in loan quality.  Consumer price and wage pressures remained low. Producer prices declined at a 
slower pace with some firms noting that higher co mmodity prices boosted material and fuel costs.  
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending remained subdued since the last survey period, and 
most contacts expected soft consumer sales to persis t. Retail sales excluding autos were mostly steady, 
but still well below year-ago levels. Mall and restaurant contacts reported slower traffic and a reduction in 
the average amount spent. Store managers noted w eak demand for luxury items and home furnishings, 
while sales of basic apparel and sporting goods edged up. A few contacts indicated that recent gas price 
increases limited consumer spending.  Auto sales, especially for new cars, fell further while credit 
standards remained tight. Still, demand for used car s was strong, and several dealers anticipated sales 
would stabilize, reducing inventories. Since the last  survey, tourism activity and hotel occupancy rates 
improved with an uptick in seasonal trav el, but were below year ago levels. 
 Manufacturing and Other Services.  Manufacturing activity contracted at a slower pace in 
April and May, and contacts generally expected condi tions to stabilize in the coming months.  Production 
of non-durable goods rose, while output fell at plants producing durable goods, especially machinery and furniture. Several transportation companies also re ported lighter shipments of durable goods and retail 
items. Manufacturing orders and shipments edged up sin ce the last survey period keeping inventories at 
low levels. After steady declines in previous months, e xport orders fell at a slower pace in May. Future  
 
X-2 
factory activity was expected to hold steady, and fe wer companies anticipated staffing reductions. While 
capital spending at factories remained weak, trans portation companies reported increased investment. 
After a modest increase in sales, demand for high tech services was expected to strengthen.   
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity improved since the last survey 
period, while conditions in the commercial real estate ma rket continued to deteriorate. Real estate agents 
attributed a rise in home sales to typical seasonal patterns along with the availability of low mortgage 
rates and tax credits for qualified buyers. Home inventory levels we re down from a year ago, and sales 
were expected to strengthen further, especially for lower-priced homes. In contrast, higher-priced home 
sales remained sluggish. Residential construction activ ity also ticked up with a seasonal increase in the 
number of building permits issued and solid de mand for remodeling projects. Several contacts 
commented that their local housing market was stab ilizing. Commercial real estate activity weakened 
further and was expected to remain sluggish. Vacancy rates continued to climb, and rental rates have 
fallen well below year-ago levels. District contacts repor ted that difficulty obtaining financing remained a 
primary reason limiting the development of  new commercial construction projects. 
Banking.  Bankers reported more stable loan demand , an increase in deposits, and an unchanged 
outlook for loan quality since the last survey.  Overall loan demand was relatively unchanged after 
decreasing moderately in the previous survey.   Demand for commercial real estate loans continued to fall 
but at a slower rate than in previous surveys.  Al so, demand for residential real estate loans rose, demand 
for consumer installment loans edged up, and de mand for commercial and industrial loans was flat 
following a year of declines.  Some banks continue d to report tighter credit standards on commercial and 
industrial loans and commercial real  estate loans.  However, for the first time in a year and a half, no 
banks reported tighter standards on residential real estate loans or consumer installment loans.  
Assessments of current and future loan quality we re about the same as in the previous survey.  A 
substantial majority of banks reported increases in deposits, which some banks attributed to continued 
consumer uncertainty about financial markets.  
X-3 
Energy.  Energy activity continued to weaken in Apr il and May and was expected to fall further. 
The number of drilling rigs operating in the District  was down sixty percent from its peak last fall. 
Despite higher crude oil prices, softer gains in natu ral gas prices failed to s pur drilling activity. One 
contact commented that it was difficult to obtain appr oval for drilling permits in Wyoming. Several firms 
indicated the cost or availability of credit was also limiting energy activity. Profit margins at ethanol 
plants remained narrow. Wind energy activit y continued to expand across the District. 
Agriculture.  District agricultural conditions held steady since the last survey period. Rainfall in 
Colorado and Kansas improved wheat growing condit ions; however, Oklahoma’s wheat crop remained 
stressed due to prolonged drought and a late freeze.  Corn planting was nearly complete, and soybean 
planting was in progress. Global weather concerns underpinned higher crop prices. With high feed costs 
and weak meat demand triggering losses, livestock pr oducers have significantly reduced herds. Farmland 
values held steady and remained above year-ago levels . Lower farm income expectations slowed capital 
spending and eased non-real estate loan demand, despite further reductions in agricultural interest rates. 
Wages and Prices.  Consumer price pressures eased, and wage pressures remained low due to 
soft labor markets. Producer prices remained soft, even though higher crude oil prices raised some 
material and fuel costs. Manufacturers reported a slow er decline in raw materials prices since the last 
survey period, and prices were expected to ease furt her. In contrast, builders reported higher prices for 
supplies, especially roofing products. Rising prices for oil and food commodities were noted by contacts 
in the transportation and restaurant industries.  Retail and restaurant prices, however, edged down and were expected to soften further.  Few contacts re ported difficultly hiring workers, and the majority of 
firms did not plan to raise wages.  
XI-1 
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS   
Economic conditions in the Eleventh District re mained weak from mid-April to late May, but 
there were increased reports of stabilization. Co ntacts in several industries said demand had improved 
slightly or had firmed since the last survey. Ma ny characterized current conditions as bouncing along the 
bottom. While outlooks were slightly more optimistic th an in past surveys, most contacts said they remain 
extremely cautious and do not expect any sustai ned improvement in the near term. Labor market 
conditions remain soft as firms continue to im plement hiring freezes in the face of uncertainty.  
Prices. Downward price pressures remain prevalent across industries. Staffing, legal and 
accounting firms continue to report pressure from client s to discount the price of their services. Retailers 
said selling prices were mostly steady, although prices of “day-to-day” goods continued to fall. Auto 
dealers said used car prices were holding up better th an new car prices, and at least one contact expected 
domestic auto prices to drop further. Airline industry c ontacts noted substantial fare sales in recent weeks. 
Energy industry respondents said rates charged for routine wellhead work were under pressure as 
producers demanded concessions reflecting lo wer commodity prices and revenues.  
Most manufacturers said selling prices were flat to down, and there were few reports of any 
expected increases in the near fu ture. The exception was in the petrochemical industry where prices for 
some products had edged up with the increase in o il prices. Some manufacturers said input prices had 
stabilized recently, although there were several reports that construction-related input costs continued to fall.   
Light sweet crude oil prices rose from $50 to $60 per barrel from mid-April to late May. U.S. 
inventories tracked downward in recent weeks, but remain about 15 percent above the 5-year high. 
Natural gas prices fell back below $4 per Mcf, and contacts expect prices to remain weak over the 
summer months. Pump prices for gasoline rose 38 cents per gallon during the survey period.  
 
 
XI-2 
Labor Market.  Layoffs continue at some firms, but most contacts said employment levels were 
steady after cuts earlier in the year. Consolida tion in some industries—including primary metals, 
construction-related manufacturing,  homebuilding, staffing services, financial services, and auto 
dealers—suggest overall employment levels may continue to move down. Hiring freezes remain 
prevalent. Wage pressures are mostly nonexistent, and many contacts were maintaining or initiating 
salary freezes or cutting hours and ove rtime in order to reduce costs. 
Manufacturing. Eleventh District manufacturers report soft demand overall, but there were more 
signs of stabilization, with some contact s reporting a slight improvement in orders. 
Construction-related manufacturers said business rema ined weak. Some producers tied to residential 
construction said the pace of decline had eased and demand was bumping along the bottom. However, 
those tied to nonresidential construction reported sales continued to decline. Only minor cutbacks in 
employment were noted. Contacts said there was no impact yet on infrastructure activity arising from the stimulus bill. Primary metals producers said that  while demand was still weak, sales had increased 
slightly—some said the uptick was due to an increase in consumer spending, while others said it was the 
result of industry consolidation. Outlooks among c onstruction product and me tal producers remain poor, 
but respondents were hopeful conditions were bottoming out.  
 High-tech manufacturing contacts reported orders had improved slightly since the last survey.  Most respondents said the improvement came because business customers were no longer severely paring 
down inventories. Despite ongoing cautiousness about th e outlook, contacts expect a gradual improvement 
over the next six months.   
 Paper-related demand was mixed. Contacts in the corrugated box industry said sales had picked 
up in the past 30 days and outlooks were more favorab le. In contrast, orders for printing paper continued 
to fall as consumers continue to demand fewer printed materials, such as newspapers. Contacts were 
attempting to clear inventories and there were re ports of employment cuts. Demand for food products 
held steady at current levels and contacts expect c onditions to remain much the same in the coming  
XI-3 
months. Transportation manufacturing activity remains depressed by slow auto and aircraft orders, yet 
sales of some specialized products have picked up. In particular, a producer of industrial-use trailers noted 
consistent sales improvement over the past 45 days and is  hiring back half of the workers laid off last 
year.  
 Many petrochemical products are over-supplied given current weak economic conditions. There 
were reports of plant shutdowns, although some exis ting plants had come back on line after hurricane and 
maintenance problems. Most contacts said orders were weak, although export demand was stronger for 
ethylene and polypropylene producers as higher o il prices and lower natural gas prices make these 
domestic gas-based products a bargain.   Refining capacity utilization rates stayed in the 82 to 84 percent range during the survey period 
and remain about 7 percentage points below a year ago. Respondents said demand for gasoline is down 2.6 percent from a year ago, and demand for dis tillates is down more than 15 percent as poor economic 
conditions reduce consumption of diesel  fuel. Refinery margins remained relatively weak as oil product 
prices rose by about the same amount as crude oil prices.    
Retail Sales. Retailers noted some improvement in sales activity over the past six weeks, and 
contacts indicated that Texas continues to fare slightly better than the national average. While activity  
remains below year ago levels, there has been a tre nd toward stabilization since the beginning of the year. 
Contacts were seeing customers return, although they remain very cost conscious and continue to 
substitute less-expensive store bra nds for name brands. Outlooks re main quite uncertain and most 
respondents don’t expect any solid improvement until 2010.  
Auto dealers said sales continued to hold steady at  low levels. Several contacts said the industry 
has likely hit bottom and will be “scraping along” for some time. Overall, respondents’ outlooks remained 
grim for the rest of the year, although some were en couraged by recent gains in consumer confidence.  
Services. Staffing firms report a leveling off in activity as layoffs have slowed. While direct hires 
remain few and far between, demand for contract and temp employees has improved slightly, and the  
XI-4 
increase is broad based across industries. While outlooks  were somewhat more optimistic than the last 
survey, respondents warned that an upturn is not ex pected in the near term, and “we are not done with 
surprises yet.” 
Demand for legal services remains soft, especially  for corporate and transaction-related services 
and real estate-related services. Contacts report they  are seeing more business deals fall apart, which has 
started to lead to a pickup in bankr uptcy and litigation. Still, the increase is expected to be less than in 
previous recessions, as more companies appear to be working disputes out themselves in order to avoid 
legal costs. Several firms reported layoffs, and some had cancelled or scal ed back their summer internship 
programs. Accounting contacts said demand was stead y. A seasonal slowdown is expected now that tax 
season is over.  
Eleventh District-based airlines reported weak conditions as concerns about the H1N1 virus 
dampened already low international and business travel. Low demand has prompted deep fare sales in 
recent weeks. Despite steady to slight increases in  future bookings, airline industry outlooks remain 
negative for the year. Transportation service contact s in cargo and container trade reported a recent 
pickup in demand and were hopeful this was a sign that the economy was bottoming out. Still volumes 
remain well below year-ago levels. Intermodal cargo volumes rose slightly over the past month as export 
demand improved, and contacts said water-based cont ainer trade volume increased. Railroad respondents 
said volumes declined across the board following a pickup noted in the last survey. The railroad industry outlook remained grim for 2009, but contacts said it looked like the economy was bouncing along the bottom. 
 Construction and Real Estate.   Homebuilders reported a slight uptick in sales. Much of the 
demand is focused on the lower-priced entry-level market, and one large company said the first-time 
homebuyer tax credit was responsible for about 80 pe rcent of their current business. There was some 
concern about the November expiration of the program, however, as buyers have just begun to come off   
XI-5 
the sidelines. Despite the recent incr ease in sales, activity remains well below year ago levels and demand 
in the higher-priced segments of the market remains so ft. Home starts remain at very low levels, but 
outlooks suggest a pickup as inventories have been greatly reduced. 
Commercial leasing activity continues to soften, although contacts say conditions in Texas 
markets remain much better than el sewhere in the country. Sales transactions for commercial real estate 
properties are almost nonexistent, but contacts say th e number of investors waiting in the wings continues 
to grow, which should lead to more sales by year-end. According to respondents, the re-pricing of 
properties will be painful but necessary. While so me contacts expressed growing concern about the 
renegotiation of maturing commercial real estate loan s, there were reports that credit markets are 
“beginning to thaw” and that real estate lenders ar e becoming more interested in making loans on very 
good deals.  
Financial Services.  Eleventh District financial services contacts remain very cautious about 
current conditions. Real estate lending remains scarce. One contact characterized the current situation as a 
“standoff” with lenders and borrowers waiting to see w ho can hold out the longest to get the best deal 
once things have stabilized. Maturing commercial real estate loans were being renewed at a lower leverage and size, if at all. Contacts report a slow down in consumer loan demand, specifically credit card 
purchase volume. At the same time, overall credit quality in the region continues to deteriorate. Contacts 
say they are maintaining tight credit standards. All contacts expected a tough year, but some said conditions were somewhat more stable now than earlier this year.  
Energy.  Demand for oil services and machinery fell as drilling activity continued to plunge, 
according to respondents. The number of working rigs in  Texas fell by about 15 percent over the past six 
weeks.  The Louisiana and New Mexico rig counts  stabilized during the survey period but are down 62 
and 27 percent, respectively, from the summer 2008 p eak. Contacts in the natural gas industry noted 
productive shales in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Pennsylvania and increased efficiency due to new 
technology may mean a reduced need for operating rigs going forward.  
XI-6 
 Agriculture. Strong spring rains improved planting a nd pasture conditions in the north and 
eastern parts of the District, but dry conditions continue to hamper agricultural production in other areas, 
particularly Southwest Texas. Drought conditions have  increased producers’ need  for financing. While 
there were reports of some improvement in livestock conditions in areas that received rain, forages were 
practically non-existent and producers continued to provide heavy supplemental nutrition to livestock in 
Southwest Texas. No impact of the H1N1 flu on Texas agriculture was reported.  
 
XII-1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary.  Economic activity in the Twelfth District slowed further on net during the survey 
period of mid-April through the end of May, although th e reports again pointed to signs of stabilization or 
improvement in some sectors.  Upward price pressures remained modest overall, and upward wage 
pressures were largely absent.  Retail sales continue d to be anemic, and demand softened further for 
service providers.  Manufacturing activity generally remained at extremely low levels or eased further, 
although conditions continued to improve for makers  of information technology products.  Demand held 
largely steady for agricultural producers and remained somewhat weak for providers of natural resources.  
Home sales continued to firm in many areas, but c onstruction activity stayed stuck at low levels, and 
demand for commercial real estate continued to deteri orate.  Loan demand weakened further on net and 
credit availability remained tight. 
Wages and Prices. Upward price pressures were very limited during the survey period.  
Commodity prices in general remained largely stable, except for oil prices, which increased.  Final prices for a wide variety of retail items continued to be held down by heavy discounting, and the prices of 
selected services fell further, most notably for professional services such as accounting and business 
consulting.  Gasoline prices rose modestly but remained well below last year’s highs. 
 Upward wage pressures were largely nonexistent.   Contacts in most sectors continued to report 
that they have reduced labor costs by freezing or  cutting wages for many worker groups, reducing or 
eliminating bonus payments, and in some cases reduci ng their contributions to employee benefit plans.  
Contacts reported limited recruiting activity and ampl e worker availability, which put downward pressure 
on wage offers. 
  Retail Trade and Services.  Retail sales remained feeble on net, but the reports suggested that 
they did not deteriorate noticeably compared with th e preceding survey period.  Consumers continued to 
favor inexpensive necessities over luxury items and di scretionary purchases, resulting in sales gains for  
 
XII-2 
large discount retailers in some areas.  Department stores and specialized retailers continued to see very 
weak demand, with little change in sales reported relative to the previous survey period.  Sales expanded 
further for grocers but remained anemic for retailers  of furniture, appliances, and electronic items.  New 
automobile sales, especially for domestic makes, remained exceptionally weak, while sales of used 
vehicles reportedly returned to “normal” levels in  some areas.  Unit sales of gasoline were running 
slightly below their levels from 12 months earlier.  
 Demand for services continued to ease on net since th e last survey period.  Providers of health-
care services saw further demand declines, as reflected  in a drop in patient vol umes.  Demand continued 
to fall for providers of professional services such as accounting, business consulting, and legal services.  
By contrast, providers of real estate services such as title insurance reported substantial increases in 
activity, resulting from an increase in home refinancin g as well as a sales pickup in some areas.  Travel 
activity in the District fell further:  in Californ ia and Nevada, pronounced ongoing declines in hotel 
occupancy rates were reported, especially in the l uxury segment of the market, and in Hawaii, visitor 
counts and spending remained down by doubl e-digit amounts from 12 months earlier. 
Manufacturing.  District manufacturing activity remained at very low levels overall during the 
survey period of mid-April through the end of May.  Activity for producers of wood products remained 
“depressed,” with sales prices that were described as too low to cove r costs for many producers.   
Contacts in the metal fabrication industry continued to report extremely weak demand and levels of capacity utilization hovering around 25 percent.  Pr oduction activity has started to ease for aerospace 
manufacturers, with significant declines in new orde rs and growing cancellations  and delivery deferrals 
for existing orders pointing to further declines going forward.  By contrast, conditions improved further 
for manufacturers of semiconductors and other inform ation technology products, as new orders and sales 
increased modestly, capacity utilization rose, and i nventories were brought into balance.  Food 
manufacturers saw continued growth in sales with  high levels of capacity utilization.   
XII-3 
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries.   Demand remained largely stable for agricultural 
producers and somewhat weak for providers of natural resources.  Sales continued at a solid pace for most 
types of agricultural output, including livestock produc ts and various types of produce, and input costs 
reportedly stayed at moderate levels, notably for fuel, fertilizer, and capital equipment.  Extraction 
activity and capital spending by oil extractors  were held down by weak global demand.  
Real Estate and Construction.  Conditions in District housing markets remained very weak but 
showed some signs of improvement, while demand for commercial real estate slid lower.  Elevated rates 
of home foreclosures, ongoing price declines, and low mo rtgage interest rates have combined to support a 
sustained pickup in the pace of home sales in many areas.  However, the pace of home construction 
remained very slow.  Demand for commercial space d eclined further, and with vacancy rates rising, 
tenants in some areas have requested and received concessions on lease rates for office and retail space.  
Construction activity and sales transactions for commercial real estate fell further, with contacts citing 
limited credit availability as one cause.  
Financial Institutions.  District banking contacts reported that overall loan activity weakened 
further and credit conditions remained tight during th e survey period.  Busin esses continued to cut back 
on their planned capital investments, causing demand for commercial and industrial loans to fall further.  
Similarly, consumer loan volumes were reported to  be down considerably in some areas.  Contacts 
attributed declines in business and consumer loan volumes primarily to the limited number of qualified 
applicants, but they also noted that lending standards remained relatively stringent.  
 