 
 
                For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
              W e d n e s d a y                July 27, 2011 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
  
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
July 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
  
JULY 2011 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  i 
 First District - Boston   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  I- 1 
 Second District - New York   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  II-1  Third District - Philadelphia   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   III-1 
 Fourth District - Cleveland   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  IV-1  Fifth District - Richmond   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  V-1  Sixth District - Atlanta   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VI- 1 
 Seventh District - Chicago   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VII-1  Eighth District - St. Louis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VIII-1  Ninth District - Minneapolis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   IX-1  Tenth District - Kansas City   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  X-1  Eleventh District - Dallas   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   XI-1 
 
Twelfth District - San Francisco   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   XII-1  
i 
 
SUMMARY 
 
Reports from the twelve Federal Rese rve Districts indicated that economic 
activity continued to grow; however, the pace has moderated in many Districts. The six Districts nearest the Atlantic seaboard repor ted a slowdown in activity  since the previous 
Beige Book report; activity was little change d in the Atlanta Dist rict and unchanged or 
slightly improved in the Richmond District. Of  the other six Distri cts, the Minneapolis 
District reported political and weather-related disruptions  that temporarily slowed 
growth, and the Dallas District  slowed to a moderate pace of growth. The remaining four 
Districts continued to grow modestly. The previous Beige Book reported a slower growth 
rate for four Districts, seve n Districts growing at  a steady pace, and one District with 
faster growth.  
Consumer spending increased overall, with  modest growth of nonauto retail sales 
in a majority of Districts. Falling gasoline prices throughout most of  this reporting period 
may have encouraged a pickup in shopping trips and some additional spending since the 
previous Beige Book. Price pressures from f ood, energy, cotton, and other supplier inputs 
continued to squeeze retail margins. Auto sale s slowed a little sin ce the previous Beige 
Book, with inventories still lean due to Ja panese supply chain disruptions. The summer 
tourism season has started off stronger than last  year in most areas unaffected by severe 
weather.  
Activity among nonfinancial service sectors improved overall in most Districts. 
Of the five Districts repo rting on transportation servic es, volumes were mostly up. 
                                                      
 Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and based on information collected on or before 
July 15, 2011. This docum ent summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside 
the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on  the views of Federal Reserve officials.  
ii 
 
Manufacturing activity expanded ove rall, with two Districts grow ing at a somewhat faster 
rate since the last Beige B ook, many Districts reporting st eady or slowing growth, and 
two Districts reporting little change. Among firms reporti ng on near-term expectations, 
the manufacturing outlook remain ed generally optimistic, but capital spending plans were 
somewhat more cautious.  
Most residential real estate activity was little changed and remained weak, 
although construction and activity in the residential rental ma rket continued to improve 
since the previous Beige Book. For six Districts,  activity in the nonresid ential real estate 
market has improved slightly for specific  submarkets, although conditions generally 
remained weak across all twel ve Districts. Since the la st Beige Book, overall loan 
volumes have increased in three Districts, decr eased in two Districts,  and were relatively 
flat, often with mixed trends across the banks’ portfolios, in five Di stricts. Credit quality 
was steady or improving.  
Drought conditions and severe flooding adve rsely affected large portions of the 
seven Districts that reported on their agricultu ral sectors. Districts that reported on their 
energy and mining sectors continued to not e strong growth for most energy-related 
products but some weakne ss in coal production.  
Although most Federal Reserve Districts obs erved modest hiring increases, labor 
market conditions remained soft. Wage pre ssures continued to be subdued for all but a 
few specific occupations in so me Districts. Price pressures moderated somewhat in many 
Districts, although some firms indicated that  they were able to pass on some cost 
increases to their customers. 
 
iii 
 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending increased overall in mo st Districts since the last Beige Book. 
The New York, Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapol is, and Dallas Districts indicated modest 
growth of nonauto retail sales, and the Phila delphia and Kansas City Districts noted 
relatively strong growth. Reta ilers in the Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco 
Districts reported mixed results across produc t lines, while St. Loui s District retailers 
reported slowing sales. Stronger sales in some New York City stores were attributed to 
tourism, while one large mall in western Ne w York credited Canadi an shoppers as the 
source. A major Philadelphia District retaile r suggested that incr eased shopping trips and 
a greater willingness to spend were due to lo wer gas prices since the last Beige Book.  
Inventory levels were not a strong concern. Contacts from half of the Districts noted 
upward pressure from supplier prices—co tton was often mentioned—and other non-labor 
inputs, especially food and energy. Some retail ers were able to pass through some cost 
increases, but for many, especially restaurant s, profit margins were squeezed. Restaurant 
contacts in the Atlanta and Kansas City Dist ricts still managed to report strong sales.  
Reports of auto sales were mixed acro ss Districts and vari ed by vehicle make, 
with most Districts indicating that dealer i nventories were lean pr imarily due to lingering 
supply disruptions for Japanese vehicles and parts. Auto dealers in the Kansas City 
District cited strong sales de spite reduced incentives and cr edited, in part, continued low 
interest rates and tornado damage. The Chica go District noted lower sales in June as 
incentives decreased and showroom traffic d eclined, followed by improved sales in early 
July. The New York, Philadelphia, Richm ond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Districts noted varying degrees of lower sales stemming from Japanese supply 
iv 
 
constraints. Strong demand for smaller vehi cles and used cars continued in several 
Districts. The Cleveland Distri ct described dealers’ outlook as  cautious due to uncertainty 
about gas prices, the economy, and vehicle availability.  
Tourism activity strengthened in most  Districts as the summer season got 
underway. The Richmond District reported th at bookings along the Mid-Atlantic coast 
were comparable to the 2010 season, despit e last year’s increase from additional 
vacationers who were avoiding the Gulf Coas t oil spill. The New York, Atlanta, and San 
Francisco Districts also reported increased to urism. Tourism was also up in parts of the 
Kansas and Minneapolis Districts, except for destinations adversely affected by drought, 
heavy rains, flooding, and Minnesota ’s state government shutdown.  
Nonfinancial Services 
 Growth of nonfinancial services adva nced further during this Beige Book period 
for the Districts overall. The Boston, St. L ouis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco 
Districts reported the strongest advances . The Philadelphia and Richmond Districts 
reported slight improvements, while activity  in the New York District flattened. 
Respondents remained optimistic about growth ov er the next three to six months in the 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. However, the New 
York District’s contacts were less optimistic than they were when polled for the previous 
Beige Book. High-tech firms in the Kansas City District expressed an optimistic outlook and planned to increase capital spending.  
Among the five Districts that reported on tr ansportation services , freight transport 
shipping volumes in the Clevel and District, port activity in  the Richmond District, and 
intermodal cargo volumes in the Dallas Dist rict expanded somewhat. The Kansas City 
v 
 
District also reported increased  activity, while Atlanta District  firms indicated that their 
domestic volumes of freight and parcels were slowing somewhat.  
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing activity expande d overall, with two Districts reporting somewhat 
stronger growth since the last  Beige Book, many Districts re porting steady or slowing in 
growth, and two Districts re porting little change.  Auto production in the Cleveland 
District rose moderately, as supply disruptions  caused by events in Japan diminished. The 
Kansas City District also reported a rebound in manufacturing activity from a low level in 
the prior survey period, while activity at high-tech firms expanded further. Foreign 
demand for metal fabrication and overal l demand for semiconductors and other 
technology products contributed to  slightly faster growth rates in the San Francisco 
District. Manufacturers in the Chicago, St. L ouis, and Minneapolis Districts reported 
continued growth at a relatively steady p ace from the previous reporting period. The 
Chicago District cited a rebound in auto pr oduction and strong demand for heavy trucks 
and equipment.  
Growth continued among manufacturers in  the Boston and Dallas Districts as 
well; however, results were more mixed. Cont acts in the Boston District cited stronger 
growth for products related to foreign de mand, non-luxury consumer goods, and clients 
addressing deferred maintenance needs. Soft er growth was reported by firms delivering 
consumer luxury goods, and products or serv ices to the small business, banking, and 
government sectors.  
Manufacturing firms in the Philadelphi a, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts 
reported somewhat slower rates of growth overall. However, the Philadelphia District 
vi 
 
reported a lull early in the pe riod, followed by resumption of a slow rate of growth in 
early July, while the Richmond District reporte d moderate gains, which stalled in early 
July. Manufacturing firms in the New York District reported a pause in growth 
throughout the period.  
Manufacturing firms’ expectations of futu re activity were optimistic in the Boston 
and Philadelphia Districts, although Boston’ s firms were less positive than in the 
previous Beige Book, and Philadelphia’s firms were more positive. Firms in the Boston District indicated limited plan s for capital spending, while firms in the Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts mainta ined plans for capital spending at prior 
levels. Fewer firms in the Cleveland District were reporting delays to  project starts for 
their capital spending plans.  
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate sales in almost all Districts were little changed from the last 
Beige Book. Activity edged up in the Richmond, Atlanta, and Minneapol is Districts. Of 
the Districts reporting on home prices, most said that they were flat or declining. The 
Boston and Richmond Districts reported st eady prices; the Phila delphia and Atlanta 
Districts reported that prices were steady to  down slightly; and the Kansas City and New 
York Districts reported that prices were down. Increasing inventories of unsold homes in 
the Boston, New York, and Kansas  City Districts have restra ined building in the single-
family housing sector. Residential cons truction activity overall was mixed, though it 
increased in the Minneapolis District. Since the previous  Beige Book, construction and 
activity in the residential rental market ha ve continued to improve in the New York, 
Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. 
vii 
 
Nonresidential real estate activity  improved somewhat in the Boston, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chica go, St. Louis, and Dallas Distri cts. The Chicago District 
reported strong demand for industr ial facilities, particularly from the automotive sector. 
The Philadelphia District reported improveme nts in terms of lower vacancy rates for 
office space, industrial space, and apartments; the Chicago District reported generally lower vacancy rates. The New York, Richmond,  Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco Districts all re ported generally weak activity in nonresidential real estate. 
Construction in the Minneapolis District  stalled in areas because of flooding and 
unavailability of state build ing inspectors due to the Minnesota state government 
shutdown. Health care and apartment construc tion was a bright spot for the Atlanta 
District. Activity was weak in the Kansas C ity District, but firms that supply construction 
materials reported increased sales and stable  prices. San Francisco reported stable but 
high vacancy rates in many parts of the District. 
Banking and Finance 
Reports of loan demand were more mixe d than in the previous Beige Book. The 
New York, Richmond, and Chica go Districts reported overall increases in loan demand 
but from different sources. Co mmercial and industrial loan s accounted for the growth in 
the New York District, while consumer loan s accounted for the growth in the Chicago 
District. Loan growth in the Richmond Dist rict was driven by consumer lending, real 
estate loans for apartments, and commercial loans for larger companies. Total loan 
volume decreased in the St. Louis and Kansas Ci ty Districts, reflecting decreases in real 
estate lending and individual lo ans in St. Louis and reductions  in consumer installment, 
commercial real estate, and commercial a nd industrial loans in  Kansas City. The 
viii 
 
Philadelphia, Dallas, and San Fr ancisco Districts reported rela tively little overall change 
in loan volume, while the Clev eland and Atlanta Districts repo rted mixed results. Outside 
of banking, the San Francisco Di strict indicated increased in vestment activity by venture 
capital firms and higher le vels of IPO activity.   
Credit conditions have changed little si nce the previous Beige Book. Banks in the 
New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas Districts reported that credit 
quality was flat or somewhat improved. Ba nkers in the Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted th at competition among lende rs for high-quality 
borrowers was squeezing banks’ margins a nd lowering the cost of capital for those 
borrowers. Bank contacts in the New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco Districts indicated that credit sta ndards were mostly unchanged at tight levels, 
but the Cleveland District heard a few repor ts of easing standards for good borrowers.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Severe drought conditions adversely affect ed parts of the Atlanta, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, causi ng low crop yields, complete crop losses, 
wildfires, and loss of grazing land in ma ny areas. The Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Districts reported that ranchers had culled herds or placed cattle on feed lots in 
response to poor pasture conditions , despite higher feed lot co sts that trim their margins. 
Meanwhile, the Chicago and Minneapolis Districts noted that  flooding had caused 
millions of acres to go unplanted. The Atlanta Di strict reported that ra in brought relief to 
some stressed pastures and crops, but farm labor shortages had impaired Georgia’s fruit 
and vegetable production. The St. Louis Distri ct reported fair or better conditions for 
corn, soybean, sorghum, rice, and cotton crops, pl us an increase from 2010 in its winter 
ix 
 
wheat production. Kansas City reported good or better conditions for corn and soybean 
crops. Agricultural prices were mixed sin ce the last report, w ith the Chicago and 
Minneapolis Districts reporting lower cattle and wheat prices, while soybean and dairy 
prices were up. Chicago also re ported higher prices for hogs. 
Activity in the energy sector remained st rong. Shale exploration increased in the 
Atlanta and Cleveland Districts.  The Cleveland District also reported little change in the 
production of oil, natural gas, or coal, de spite rising demand for coal. The St. Louis 
District reported higher coal production than  the prior year. The Minneapolis District 
reported continued strong mining activity a nd mixed plans for wind farms and biodiesel. 
The Kansas City District reported expa nded drilling activity and higher ethanol 
production but weak coal production. The Dalla s District also re ported strong drilling 
activity, and the San Francisco District re ported strong activity for metal mining, along 
with oil and gas extraction. 
Employment, Wages, and Prices 
 Labor market conditions remained soft  in most Federal Reserve Districts. 
Employment, especially among temporary hi ring agencies, improved in the Richmond 
District in recent weeks.  M odest hiring increases, often w ithin specific sectors such as 
advertising in the Boston District and manufacturing in the Cleveland District, 
contributed to modest overall employment gain s. Small gains were also noted in the St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, and Dalla s Districts. The New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago 
Districts reported a slowdown in the pace of  hiring activity. A staffing firm in the 
Chicago District reported a d ecline in billable hours.  
x 
 
Wage pressures remained subdued in most Districts and for most occupations. For 
the overall labor market, the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas, 
and San Francisco Districts reported limited wage pressures. Wage  pressures or wage 
increases were characterized as modest  or moderate by the Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts. Bost on District contacts reported wage growth 
between 3 percent and 5 percent in consulting and advertising. In addi tion, contacts in the 
Kansas City District reported  labor shortages and wage pre ssures in the retail sector and 
for many occupations in the high-tech, energy, and transportation sectors, while the San 
Francisco District reported continued wa ge pressures for specialized information 
technology workers.  
Price pressures seemed to have mode rated somewhat, although some firms 
reported being able to pass on some rising costs.   Overall, input price pressures appeared 
to have fallen modestly. Input price increas es remained elevated in the Philadelphia, 
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Di stricts. Meanwhile, the Boston, Cleveland, 
Atlanta, and San Francisco Dist ricts reported moderation in i nput price pressures relative 
to the previous Beige Book. For the most pa rt, firms’ ability to pass on price increases 
remained mixed. A few Districts reported some sectors being able to pass on rising 
prices, such as the retail sector in the Chi cago District and service-sector firms in the 
Dallas District. 
 
I-1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Economic activity continues to increase in the First District, but results are somewhat more mixed 
than in recent reports. Retailers cite modest sales in creases, manufacturers note generally good results but 
a few softer segments, and advertis ing and consulting firms mostly c ite strong growth. Commercial real 
estate markets continue to see slow improvement, while housing markets remain in the doldrums. 
Selected retail and manufacturing contacts cite reduc ed commodity cost pressur es compared to the last 
report, although some upward price pressures persis t. Headcounts remain largely unchanged or up only 
slightly, except for advertising and consulting firms,  which continue to hire. Outlooks are generally 
positive, but most contacts express concern about cu rrent and future negative effects of increased 
uncertainty, attributable in part to failure to r esolve the U.S. debt ceiling dispute promptly and the 
associated unclear future course of  federal expenditures and taxes. 
Retail   
First District retailers report mixed sales results for the early summer months, with comparable 
same-store sales varying from flat to mid single-di git increases from year-earlier. A few contacts mention 
the favorable impact of promotional activity on sales and consumers’ shopping pa tterns. Inventory levels 
are mixed. Several contacts note upward price pressure  on commodities including paint, copper, plastics, 
and cotton, and one says vendors have given notice of price increases to take effect during the coming 
months; however, another contact notes a lessening of cost pressures. Respondents are passing along price 
increases where possible. Headcount is mixed, with some firms adding people in line with new store 
openings and limited hiring opport unities, and a few consolidating headcount. Capital spending is 
primarily limited to new store or renovation opport unities and select IT projects. Outlooks range from 
concerned to cautiously optimistic, although the major ity of respondents cite apprehension about the 
government’s ability to handle the debt ceiling crisis. 
Manufacturing and Related Services 
Business conditions at contacted manufacturers generally remained good in the second quarter, 
but results across individual firms and business segments are more mixed than in recent reports. A firm in 
the aerospace industry cites strong sales as clients purchased parts to implement previously deferred 
maintenance. A food products manufacturer and a plas tics manufacturer also report relatively strong sales 
volume for the first half of the year. In contrast, a business services firm sees “soft” demand from small 
businesses, while another says sales in its banking services business were weak because of continued 
pressure on banks to cut costs. Growth in government -related sales continues to be sluggish. In addition, a 
company whose products are heavily dependent on c onsumers’ discretionary spending reports that 
customer demand in the U.S. is weak this year co mpared to last, although international demand remains 
strong. Finally, a manufacturer that supplies energy -efficiency-related products to the commercial real 
estate sector notes that demand declined in the second quarter relative to the first quarter despite higher 
energy prices in the more recent quarter; they attri bute this unusual sales pattern to economic uncertainty. 
A number of other manufacturers also note that ev en though their business remains good overall, at least 
some segments are being restrained by their cust omers’ uneasiness about the current federal fiscal 
 
I-2 
situation and overall low consumer confidence. 
Commodity prices—especially oil and steel prices—remain a concern for firms with commodity-
intensive production processes. Dairy-related prices also continue to rise, and resin (oil)-related packaging 
costs remain high. Firms implemented price increases, especially earlier in the year, to offset these higher 
costs; in the current round, there is little discussion of  further price increases in the near-term. Indeed, a 
manufacturer in the food services industry expects pr ices for wheat and related commodities to soften 
somewhat in coming months. In addition, supply shor tages for bulk chemicals, which had persisted for 
the last two years, vanished unexpectedly in recent weeks according to a plastics manufacturer; he says it 
is too early to tell whether the change reflects a dr op-off in worldwide demand or an increase in supply. 
Hiring and investment at contacted firms conti nues to be limited because of uncertainty about 
demand and a desire to keep costs low. Manufactur ers investing domestically say they are mainly 
spending to upgrade IT and related systems, a lthough a couple of firms report relatively modest 
expenditures to slightly increase plant capacity. Employ ment at the vast majority of contacted firms is 
stagnant. Much of the ongoing hiring is to keep up with worker attrition, although a few firms are 
increasing their headcount slightly, with one company “f inally” converting some of its temporary help to 
permanent employees. 
Looking ahead, many of the responding firms remain cautiously optimistic about growth 
prospects, especially in 2012. For many companies,  however, the outlook for the rest of 2011 is not as 
strong as it was earlier in the year, since growth in  the second quarter came in somewhat lower than 
expected. Nearly all contacted manufacturers attri bute this change in the outlook to the increase in 
economic uncertainty resulting from the unresolved U.S. fiscal situation.  
Selected Business Services  
Consulting and advertising contacts in the First Di strict generally report strong growth during the 
second quarter of 2011. Most respondents cite year-o ver-year revenue growth in the 10 percent to 20 
percent range, although one consulti ng firm reports flat revenue a nd another acknowledges a 9 percent 
revenue decline. Contacts note that advertising and c onsulting as industries are very procyclical and have 
thus benefitted from the recent rec overy in the corporate sector.  
All advertising and consulting respondents have increased employment recently and plan to 
continue to do so in the near future, with most pl anned increases close to 5 percent. Several contacts note 
difficulty in finding qualified employees, which some  firms say is constraining their sales growth. 
Additionally, most contacts observe stable wage gr owth between 3 percent and 5 percent. Although one 
contact says that tough competition has forced his compan y to lower prices, most firms have been able to 
pass along the costs of their compensation growth to customers. 
Contacts are generally very optimistic about thei r outlook for the second half of 2011 and 2012. 
All expect positive growth for the rest of the year and most expect double-digit growth in 2012. Despite 
this optimism, most contacts express concern that the current debate over the debt limit has created 
considerably uncertainty which is delaying business decisions by themselves and their clients. Because 
their business is very procyclical, they say their ser vices may be some of the first cut if companies 
 
I-3 
become pessimistic and retrench, so they fear that fa ilure to resolve the debt ceiling issue could have huge 
negative ramifications for their firms and for the general economy.  Commercial Real Estate 
Conditions in New England’s commercial real estate market are little changed since the last 
report. Fundamentals continue to improve across th e region, but at a very slow pace. Boston contacts 
perceive a modest uptick in office leasing activity in  recent weeks, yet at the same time note that net 
absorption of office space slowed in the second quart er compared to the first. Respondents expect 
Boston’s office leasing market to continue the slow improvement pattern of recent months, but say that 
weak employment reports for the U.S. as a whole constitute a downside risk. In Rhode Island, leasing 
activity is described as slow, but deals in progress ar e likely to improve the picture in coming months. 
Portland’s commercial leasing market is said to be stable, but the outlook there looks increasingly 
uncertain according to one contact.  
Concerning commercial investment, demand for pr ime Boston office properties remains robust as 
sales prices appear to be edging up, based on recent transactions. Boston’s apartment market remains very 
strong and continues to raise concerns of overheating.  While apartment rents increased significantly year-
over-year in the metropolitan area—by 5 percent to 10 percent by one estimate—contacts judge recent property prices to be too high and warn of a possi ble excess of planned construction. Meanwhile, some 
large office construction projects in Boston are moving forward, but others in the planning stages are 
likely to remain stalled indefinitely.  Residential Real Estate 
Throughout the region, residential real estate mark ets remained stagnant in May, with most New 
England states posting significant year-over-year declines in home and condo sales. The homebuyers’ tax 
credit, which boosted sales in the first half of 2010, contributed significantly to the year-over-year 
declines observed in May, but contacts report activity in  the housing market remains slow, with the buyer 
pool resting at weak levels. Contacts in some states , however, note increases in home sales compared with 
two years ago, which they interpret as a positive si gn. Meanwhile, median home prices remained roughly 
steady in May compared to a year earlier, with states  experiencing either modest increases or declines; the 
median price of condos also moved in mixed direc tions across the region. According to contacts, job 
insecurity and stricter lending requirements among larger banks continue to restrict the flow of buyers 
into the residential real estate market. At the same  time, inventories continue to rise in the region, 
although most contacts say current inventory levels are not troubling because inventories in the region 
have been low, limiting the selection for potential buyers.  
Contacts anticipate that sales figures in July w ill show year-over-year increases as the calendar 
moves beyond the expiration of the tax credit in June l ast year. Most forecast sluggish activity for the rest 
of 2011 and do not anticipate a significant increase in  buyer activity until 2012 or  later. The median sale 
price of homes is expected to move up or down only slightly over the coming months.  
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The pace of activity in the Second District’s economy slowed somewhat since the last report.  
Business contacts across a variety of sectors indicate that activity has flattened out in recent weeks and that hiring has tapered off.  Retail sales remained fairly sturdy in June but were mixed in early July.  Consumer confidence has remained at low levels.   Tourism activity has remained strong. 
Commercial real estate markets have been mixed since the last report, with office markets mostly 
stable but industrial markets weakening somewhat.  The residential purchase market has been steady 
to somewhat softer, while the rental market has sh own further signs of strengthening; there continues 
to be little new home construction.  Finally, bankers report increased demand for commercial & industrial loans, lower delinquency rates on such loans, and no change in credit standards in any category.  
Consumer Spending  
Non-auto retail sales continued to run on or above plan in June, with same-store sales running 
1 to 5 percent ahead of a year earlier, though reports for early July were more mixed.  A number of contacts note that sales of apparel have been pe rforming relatively well, while sales of home goods 
have been on the sluggish side; one contact notes th at fashion apparel has been selling considerably 
better than more basic items.  One large chain reports somewhat stronger sales in its New York City 
stores than elsewhere in the region; part of this is attributed to tourism.  Moreover, one large retail mall in western New York State notes that a cont inued brisk flow of Canadian shoppers has been a 
major factor in driving sales.  Retail inventories are generally reported to be in good shape.  Prices appear to be relatively stable overall: one retail chain indicates that it has raised prices moderately on 
some lines, but another contact notes that there is somewhat more discounting of merchandise than at 
this time last year.  Sharply higher cotton prices are expected to push up clothing prices moderately 
in the second half of the year.   
 
 II-2 
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales were mixed in June.  Rochester-area 
dealers note some deceleration in sales, mainly attributed to low inventories or stock-outs due to 
ongoing Japan-related disruptions.  On the other hand, Buffalo-area dealers indicate some pickup in sales in June, after a sluggish May, as inventory pr oblems begin to subside.  Used cars are said to be 
selling well.  Auto-industry contacts note improvement in both retail and wholesale credit conditions.     
Consumer confidence surveys continue to give mixed results.  Siena College reports that 
consumer confidence among NY State residents slipped in June, following a good gain in May, with 
declines occurring both upstate and downstate.  In contrast, the Conference Board reports that consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) rose in June, following a steep drop in May. Still, both surveys show confidence mired at low levels.  Tourism activity in New York City has remained quite strong since the last report, as reflected in persistently 
high hotel occupancy rates, room rates that run 6 to 8 percent ahead of a year earlier, and a pickup in 
Broadway theatre attendance and revenues.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Residential construction has remained depressed and housing markets across the District 
have remained sluggish since the last report, although there has been further improvement in the 
rental market.  An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that the resale market has 
remained weak, and that the level of optimism appears to have waned.  Prices of existing homes have continued to drift down, largely reflecting a prepondera nce of “distressed” sales; otherwise, prices 
across northern New Jersey are generally flat.  While the inventory of unsold new homes is fairly lean now, the inventory of available existing homes  remains elevated—as high as 16 months of sales 
if units in foreclosure and other distressed propertie s are included.  Buffalo-area Realtors also report 
some weakening in market conditions in May and June; while foot traffic has been fairly brisk, few people have made offers.  More generally, sales activity across New York State has been steady to 
 
 II-3 
weaker.  A major New York City appraisal firm reports that both sales and prices of co-ops, condos, 
and single-family homes remain flat overall—both in Manhattan and in the outer boroughs—with the 
high end of the market accounting for a larger share of sales than last year.   
In contrast with the weakness in home purchase markets, rental markets have shown 
increasing strength.  Manhattan’s apartment rental market has strengthened since the last report.  Rents on new leases were reported to be up 6 percent in June from a year earlier in June.  In addition, 
one contact notes that landlords have pulled b ack on concessions, which are now reportedly being 
offered on fewer than 5 percent of new leases, down from 60 percent in mid-2010.  Separately, the Jersey shore summer rental market is reported to be fairly strong this year, though the sales market for rental units remains sluggish.  More broadly, many New Jersey landlords are reported to be pushing through rent increases for the first time since the recession.   
Commercial real estate markets have been steady to somewhat weaker since the last report.  
Office vacancy rates and rents were generally stab le across the District during the second quarter: 
market conditions improved slightly in the Buffalo and Rochester metro areas and in Manhattan, but they weakened moderately in northern New Jersey and metropolitan Albany.  However, industrial real estate markets weakened modestly across most  of the District, with vacancy rates edging up and 
rents drifting down.      
Other Business Activity 
Reports from business contacts point to some leveling off in the labor market.  A major New 
York City employment agency reports that recruitment activity has been steady but lackluster since Memorial Day.  Hiring in the legal industry has continued to improve from very depressed levels, 
with large firms hiring once again.  Financial sect or hiring has been spotty.  Still, the flow of 
applicants for office jobs has declined somewhat.  More broadly, contacts in both the manufacturing 
 
 II-4 
sector and other industries report some tapering off in hiring activity since the last report, though 
employment levels are still expected to increase moderately over the second half of 2011.   
Looking at overall business activity, manufacturing firms in the District report a pause in 
growth in June and early July, based on the latest Empire State Manufacturing Survey. Manufacturers also report that price pressures have eased since the last report and that their selling 
prices are steady; however, both prices paid and prices received are expected to increase in the 
months ahead.  Non-manufacturing firms also indicat e that business activity has flattened out since 
the last report, and contacts have become somewhat less optimistic about the near term outlook. Non-manufacturing firms report that cost pressures rema in widespread and more contacts than last time 
report that they are raising selling prices. 
Financial Developments  
Bankers indicate increased demand for commercial and industrial loans but little or no 
change in other loan categories.  Bankers also reported a moderate decline in the demand for refinancing.  Credit standards were reported to be virtually unchanged for all loan categories—the first time in a number of years that respondents did not report net tightening on the commercial and industrial segment.  Respondents report decreases in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all 
loan categories, especially residential mortgages; they also indicate a decrease in the average deposit 
rate.  Finally, bankers indicate lower delinquency rates on commercial and industrial loans but little or no change in delinquency rates for the other categories. 
III-1 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Since the last Beige Book, Third District economic activity has continued to grow at a 
very slow rate. Overall, manufact uring growth has leveled off at a low rate since the last Beige 
Book. Retailers posted strong year-o ver-year sales increases in June. For motor vehicle dealers, 
the slowdown in sales that began in May eased s lightly further in June. On balance, bank lending 
has been mostly flat since the last Beige B ook. Steady and falling house prices continue to 
dampen sales of existing and new homes, accordi ng to residential real estate and construction 
contacts. Commercial real estate contacts repo rted small improvements in market conditions 
since the previous Beige Book. Sli ght increases in activity were re ported by service-sector firms, 
dampened somewhat by a hiring slump among custom ers. Price pressures from food, energy, and 
other commodities continue to affect many sect ors. The ability to pass along costs remains 
mixed, and there is little ev idence of wage pressure.  
Third District business contact s continue to expect slow growth despite expressing 
increased uncertainty. Manufacturer s forecast a modest rise in shipments and orders during the 
next six months. Retailers remain cautiously optimi stic about future sales; auto dealers are more 
agnostic. Bankers expect slight growth in lending,  at best. Residential re al estate contacts are 
generally planning for a continua tion of slow growth, comparable  to last year. Contacts in 
commercial real estate continue to expect modest gains. Servic e-sector companies also expect 
continued slow growth.  
 
Manufacturing.  Since the last Beige Book, Third Di strict manufacturers reported a lull 
in the growth of new orders and a slowdown in th e modest growth rate of shipments.  However, 
activity was reported to be a bit stronger in Ju ly.  Among key manufacturi ng sectors in the Third 
District, the number reporting in creases of both shipments and orde rs has narrowed since the last 
Beige Book. Growing product demand was reported by makers of furniture; instruments; stone, 
clay, and glass products; and pr inters and publishers. However,  makers of food, apparel, 
chemicals, rubber, primary metals, fabricated me tals, and electronics re ported declining product 
demand. Comments from firms were mixed, with  several citing an ongoi ng lull in customer 
demand, a few surprised by unseasonal incr eases, and many concerned by economic 
uncertainties.  
III-2 
Despite the uncertainties, Third District manufacturers have grown somewhat more 
positive in their outlook for business conditions over the next six months compared to the time of 
the previous Beige Book.  Among firms contacte d, over two-fifths expect increases in new 
orders and shipments, while about one-fifth exp ect decreases. One-third of firms polled project 
increases in capital spending ove r a six-month planning horizon – th e same proportion as at the 
last Beige Book.  
 
Retail.  Third District retailers re ported stronger sales in June  than a year earlier. 
Shopping trips and a willingness to spend were ai ded by falling gas prices since the previous 
Beige Book. Consumers continue to search for va lue, and retailers continue to respond with 
merchandise at lower price points. Retailers remain cautiously optimistic as the critical 
September through December retail period approaches . However, given the slow growth so far 
this year, one retailer indicated that it would lik ely implement only half of  this year’s capital 
budget plan.  
Third District auto dealers ge nerally reported that sales ease d further in June after May’s 
slowdown. Results varied by brand, dependi ng on reliance on Japanese production for the 
vehicle or parts. One dealer of General Motors brands indicated June wa s the dealership’s best 
month of the year. Dealers remain uncertain about future sales.  
 
Finance.  Third District banks contac ted in July indicated littl e change in loan volumes 
outstanding. Many sources reported continued weak demand from small businesses; some 
bankers cited stronger lending to middle market  businesses. Revolving credit had bounced back 
somewhat in June, after a fall-off in April and May; however, the gains ma y have been lost in 
early July. On balance, total cr edit extended by banks in the region has been flat to slightly down. 
Expectations for better gr owth were not met for the most recent  period – dampening expectations for 
anything but the slightest improvement in the near future, according to banking contacts.  
 
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity in the Third District has 
changed little since the previous Beige Book. Wh ile some agents reported positive comparisons 
during June and early July for showings and sales compared to year-ago levels, activity last year 
was soft after the tax credit expired. Agents and builders continue to re port stronger sales among 
mid- and low-priced homes, but incidences of high-priced home sales ar e increasing. Reports of 
III-3 
multiple offers for condos in center city Philad elphia were noted by one agent as a glimmer of 
improvement. Most market participants do not e xpect the year as a whole to be markedly 
different from last year. In most parts of the Thir d District, sale prices of  existing homes continue 
to fall slightly; in a few areas, prices were unchanged. Traffic and sa les of new homes have 
weakened since the last Beige Book; however, one builder repor ted an uptick in activity in 
Pennsylvania in the last two weeks.  
Commercial and industrial real  estate contacts have noted  small improvements in the 
Third District since the previous Beige Book. Ov erall, vacancy rates have improved for office 
space, industrial space, and apar tments, although one manager said activity seems to have come 
to a standstill in the last month. Retail space vacancies may have edged up slightly; however, 
demand is stronger in regional centers and weak er at neighborhood sites. An ongoing trend of 
trading up for quality as office space leases renew has lowered vacancies and reduced concessions for Class A space, while raising v acancies for Class B space. Rents are generally 
steady for most sectors in most ar eas and concessions remain common.  
 
Services.  Reports from Third District service-sect or firms were slightly positive overall, 
but firms described various challenges. A recu rring theme was a recent slowdown in hiring, 
especially from small and medium-sized busine sses. One staffing agency described “almost a 
stop to new [excludes replacement] hiring orders in the last three weeks.” Other firms cited 
projects delayed due to ongoing economic uncerta inties, including government-related projects 
contingent on budget negotiations. The most positiv e firms recognized that the “easy year-over-
year comps are over” in this recovery and that  continued growth will be slow. Despite these 
challenges, most service-sector firm s expect growth to be somewhat be tter over the next six months.  
 
Prices and Wages.  Since the previous Beige Book, the percent of manufacturers 
reporting increases in prices paid  for inputs dropped from more th an one-half to one-third. Over 
the same period, the percent repo rting decreases in prices recei ved for their own products rose 
from nearly zero to over one-s ixth. Rising commodity prices c ontinue to pressure retailers, 
service-sector firms, and home builders to pa ss through costs when they can and to lower the 
price-point of their offerings. Th ere are a few reports of a lit tle upward pressure on rents in 
selected local markets for apartments and some re tail space. Meanwhile, th ere is little evidence 
of pressure on wages. 
IV-1 
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Business activity in the Fourth District con tinued to expand at a modest pace, albeit at a 
slower rate since our last re port.  Manufacturers reported a s light rise in production and new 
orders, while freight transport vol ume continued to grow.  Retail sales increased, but were below 
plan for some chains.  New car sales weakened sl ightly.  Energy companies noted little change in 
output.  New-home construction is sluggish, whereas nonresidential building showed continued 
improvement.  The demand for business and consumer credit remains low.    
Rising payrolls were mainly limited to th e manufacturing and energy sectors.  Staffing-
firm representatives noted moderate growth in  the number of new job openings, with vacancies 
concentrated in manufacturing and professional bu siness services.  Wage pressures are largely 
contained.  We heard fewer reports  about rising prices for commod ities and other raw materials.  
In particular, steel firms noted a leveling off in prices for their products, while food producers 
reported a slow decline in some agricultural commodity prices.   
Manufacturing.  Reports from District f actories indicate that production was stable or 
rose slightly during the past six weeks.  About half of our responde nts noted a rise in new orders.  
Many of our contacts expect some slowing in th e third quarter due to se asonal factors, followed 
by a modest pick-up later in the year.  Almost all steel producers and service centers reported 
that shipping volume declined during the second  quarter, which they attributed in part to 
weakening in the auto sector.  Steel representati ves anticipate volume remaining close to current 
levels through the end of the third quarter.  Shipments are being driven primarily by heavy 
equipment and energy-related industries.  Distri ct auto production showed a moderate rise in 
June on a month-over-month basis, as supply disruptions caused by events in Japan diminished.  
Year-over-year production fell, but declines were mainly limite d to foreign nameplates.   
Manufacturers remain committed to raising capital outlays in the upcoming months 
relative to year-ago levels.  The number of contacts who earlier reported delaying the start of 
projects due to slowing in the recovery has declined considerab ly.  Capacity utilization rates 
remain below what is considered normal for a majority of manufactur ers.  Reports on raw 
material pricing were mixed, and only a few of our contacts said that they had passed through 
price increases.  Steel pr ices leveled off, while food producer s reported a slow decline in some 
agricultural commodity prices.  In general, manu facturers continued hiring at a modest pace.  
Wage pressures are contained.     
Real Estate.  New-home construction remains at a low level, with only two of our 
contacts reporting an uptick in sales during June.  Purchases we re mainly in the move-up buyer 
categories.  Contractors expect that single- family construction will remain depressed until 
potential buyers can more easily sell their existin g homes and the job market begins to gain some 
traction.  List prices of new homes held stea dy, while the use of discounting grew.  Upward 
IV-2 
pressure on the cost of building materials was reported by almost all of our contacts.  Spec 
inventories were reduced further relative to year-ago levels.  Ge neral contractors continue to 
work with lean crews, and no hiring is expect ed in the near term.  Many subcontractors are 
struggling to stay in business and are bidding jobs below cost.   
Activity in nonresidential construction streng thened somewhat during the past couple of 
months, with a few of our contacts noting a si gnificant improvement when compared to year-ago 
levels.  Inquiries are on the rise , and several contractors reporte d growing backlogs, albeit with 
weak margins.  Construction is taking place in a br oad range of industry sectors.  Almost all of 
our contacts expect that activity  will continue to slowly impr ove as the year progresses.  
Financing is available, though underwriting standa rds remain high.  Banks are unwilling to lend 
for speculative projects, and they require addi tional equity when re financing an existing 
property.  Most of our contacts reported normal price fluctuati ons for building materials.  
Aggressive pricing on the part of both general contra ctors and subcontractor s was widespread.  
Construction payrolls held steady, and little pe rmanent hiring is expected in the upcoming 
months. 
Consumer Spending.  Reports from retailers indicate th at sales for the period from mid-
May through late June rose in the low to mid-sing le digits.  However, for a few chains, the rate 
of growth was lower than expected.  This wa s attributed mainly to inclement weather.  
Transactions were mostly higher relative to year-a go levels.  Several of our contacts noted that 
rising sales included some higher-pr iced discretionary items.  One retailer said that her overall 
sales were up due to elevated gasoline prices.  Looking forward, retailers’ expectations for the 
third quarter were mixed.  We continue to hear about upward pressu re on supplier prices, 
although it mainly affects food- and fuel-related products.  Retailers passed through some of 
their increases to consumers.  Reports on prof it margins were mixed, with declines taken 
primarily by grocers.  Capital out lays remain on plan and are slight ly higher than year-ago levels.  
A majority of our contacts reported that they plan  to expand the number of their retail outlets.  
However, no change in payrolls is expected at existing stores. 
 Most auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales from mid-May thr ough late June were 
below those recorded during the previous six-we ek period.  On a year-over-year basis, vehicle 
purchases increased for almost all of our cont acts.  Demand for smaller, fuel-efficient cars 
continues to grow.  However, with some re trenchment in gasoline prices, consumers are 
beginning to take a second look at SUVs and truc ks.  Inventories were characterized as low by 
many dealers, and they believe this may be a ma jor contributor to slower sales.  Dealers are 
cautious in their outlook due to uncertainty about gas prices, the economy, and the availability of 
vehicles that consumers want to buy.  Demand fo r used cars remains fairly strong; however, 
scarce inventory is contributing to rising prices.  Credit pricing remains very competitive, and the 
IV-3 
use of leasing as a cred it alternative is growing.  Many dealers are in th e process of initiating 
factory-mandated programs for showroom upgrades  and reimaging.  Little change in dealer 
payrolls was reported.    
Banking.  Demand for business loans was generally  soft, with activity driven by non 
profits and energy companies.  A few of our contacts noted a pick-up in construction-loan 
requests for multi-family dwellings.  On the c onsumer side, indirect auto lending was strong, 
while draw-downs on home equity lines of credit ta pered off.  Other installment loan categories 
remain weak.  Many of our contacts reported do wnward pressure on interest rates for business 
and consumer credit.  Applications for residentia l mortgages declined since our last report, with 
submissions equally distributed between refinanc ing and new purchases.  Overall core deposits 
continue to increase, but the rate  of growth has declined.  We h eard a few reports of easing credit 
standards for commercial and industr ial loans, especially for attract ive credits.  The credit quality 
of business and consumer appli cants was characterized as steady or improving.  Most bankers 
reported a modest improvement in delinquency rate s.  No significant changes in employment 
levels were reported.  However, about half of our respondents said that they expect selective 
hiring to occur this year.    
Energy.  Reports indicate that oil and natural gas drilling and production showed little 
change during the past six weeks, with activity in  Marcellus and Utica shal es continuing to grow.  
Wellhead prices paid to independent producers have declined.  Demand for coal is rising, 
especially in overseas markets.  However, due to transport issues a nd increasing governmental 
oversight in permitting and environmental complian ce, production remained flat.  Little change 
is anticipated for the remainder of the year.  Sp ot prices for coal, part icularly steam, moved 
slightly higher.  Capital outlays  are on target, with moderate increases projected by oil and gas 
companies in the upcoming months.  The cost of production equipment and materials increased 
slightly since our last report.  A modest rise in payrolls by oil and ga s producers was reported.   
Transportation.   Freight transport executives told  us that shipping volume expanded 
slightly, as the effects of supply chain disruptio ns due to events in Japan and severe spring 
weather in the U.S. dissipate.  Expectations ca ll for markets to continue growing at a modest 
pace in the upcoming months.  The price for dies el fuel remains elevated, with most of the 
increase being passed through to customers via su rcharges.  Capital outl ays are expected to 
accelerate during 2011.  Spending is mainly to repl ace units that were in service longer than 
expected.  Hiring has been largely for driver re placement.  However, we heard a couple of 
reports that carriers are addi ng capacity, which remains below pre-recession levels industry-
wide.  Wage pressures are emerging due to a tightening of the driver pool. 
V-1 
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
Overview.  Business activity in the Fifth District was unchanged or slightly improved in most 
sectors since our last assessment. In the service sector , retail activity on balance remained soft during the 
last month, while non-retail services firms reported flat or slightly increasing demand. Tourism to 
mountain and ocean destinations picked up in recen t months. Banking activity improved moderately, but 
gains did not extend to commercial real estate. Indeed, both commercial R ealtors and construction 
contractors reported that activity was little changed fro m weak conditions in past months. In contrast, 
however, residential Realtors indicated that low- to-medium priced homes across the District were 
generally lifting the market, if only slightly, since our last report. The manufacturing sector slowed over 
the last month, with several contacts citing softer demand. Finally, employment agencies specializing in 
temporary workers noted modest improvements in de mand, with several adding that recent uncertainty 
about the direction of sales was causing their clients to postpone hiring full-time employees.   
Manufacturing. District manufacturing stalled in July after exhibiting moderate gains in June. A 
producer of coated steel reported that orders had d eclined during the entire second quarter. He noted that 
typically the second and third quarters were the strongest for his company, but that he was not seeing any improvement in either June or July. Similarly, a fu rniture manufacturer indicated that business had slowed 
in recent months, particularly for furniture collecti ons for the home. Several firms reported that working 
capital constraints, coupled with the inability to p ass through raw material increases, had limited their 
ability to expand their business. In addition, a few contacts mentioned that automotive deliveries had 
slowed and material costs had increased recently as a result of the production interruptions in Japan. Our 
latest manufacturing survey indicated that prices of  both raw materials and fi nished goods grew more 
slowly over the last month. 
Fifth District ports continued to post moderate ga ins since our last report. With shipping moving 
into its peak season, however, several port authoriti es expressed concern that recent import gains were not 
as strong as expected. One official attributed the a pparent sluggishness in May and June to retailers 
ordering earlier than normal last year (due to uncertainty over shipping rates), making year-over-year 
comparisons misleading. Another contact stated that th e surge in trade that occurred over the last year was 
not sustainable, and also added that the weakeni ng of the overall economy was affecting import volumes. 
A shipping official noted that many businesses were reluctant to build invent ory and some retailers 
seemed to be holding back their orders, adding to  a sense of “choppiness” to shipping activity. However, 
exports of coal and other commodities continued to do  well, according to a port official, and auto imports 
were described by one contact as “amazing,” with auto makers scrambling to rebuild depleted inventory. 
Several contacts expected shipping activity to pick up  later this year, in part due to an increase in empty 
containers being shipped to As ia—presumably to be refilled for the Christmas holiday season.  
V-2 
Retail. Retailers across the District generally reported mixed sales since our last report. A few 
retailers, for example, reported that mid-price items languished in recent months, and customers 
bargained hard for discounts. Several clothiers told us that their apparel sales fell—except in higher-end 
goods. In addition, rising cotton and wool prices were pushing clothing prices higher. Our recent survey 
of retailers indicated some weakening in revenu es, although the weakness was not as pronounced as a 
month earlier. However, several discount stores repor ted increased shopper traffic and an uptick in total 
sales. Grocery store contacts also reported rising sales, as did some wholesale building supply firms in the 
D.C. area. Several luxury retailers reported solid sales,  and an auto dealer indicated strong sales in recent 
weeks. One West Virginia dealer noted that fo reign makes continued to “outsell production.”  
Services.  Service sector activity was flat to sli ghtly stronger in recent weeks. Revenues 
strengthened moderately, according to polled contacts, particularly in telecommunications. A number of 
builders and construction-related firms in the D.C. area also reported a pickup in business during the past 
month. Most contacts we surveyed at restaurants and hotels said revenues accelerated since the start of 
summer. However, advertising agencies indicated that  business was flat, and healthcare services providers 
reported little change. Non-retail services  providers’ prices rose at a slightly quicker pace over the last 
month, according to our recent survey. 
Finance.  Loan demand in the District continued to improve, albeit at an uneven pace, since our 
last report. Consumer lending increased in most banking markets, according to contacts, with several bankers citing examples of making loans for a ppliance replacements and home renovations. A loan 
officer in West Virginia noted in creased loans for auto dealership i nventory. And, a banker in North 
Carolina noted continued strength in industrial loan s for warehouse buildings and machinery. However, 
another banker characterized industrial loans as going more toward high-tech capital goods than 
traditional machinery. Except for apar tment buildings, commercial real estat e loans declined in most areas 
around the District, with several commercial develope rs reporting continued difficulty getting financing. 
One banker, however, cited a pickup in commercial lo an demand primarily from larger companies, while 
demand for small business loans in general edged downward. Most bankers stated that intense 
competition for quality loans was squeezing margins. Se veral contacts reported that credit quality was flat 
or slightly improved over the last few months, with  the number of late paym ents edging down. A banker 
in Richmond said that small businesses, especially reta ilers, accounted for most cases of delinquencies.  
Real Estate.   Real estate activity edged higher since our  last report. Several Realtors indicated 
that sales had picked up gradually and that their market s were more active than a year ago. While most of 
the gains were in the low-to-mid price range, activ ity also inched up for higher-priced homes in some 
areas. An agent in the D.C. area, for example, reporte d that properties in the mid-to-upper price range sold 
quickly, with the best sellers in the $800 thousand to  $1.25 million price range. He added that relatively 
low inventory should keep market activity fairly strong in that area. A Realtor in the western part of North 
V-3 
Carolina said that he was “cautiously optimistic,”  but added that high unemployment in that area 
remained a serious drag on sales activ ity. Realtors throughout the District noted an increase in foot traffic, 
but sale price movements varied. Real estate agents  in the Greensboro, N.C. and Greenville, S.C. areas 
stated that prices held steady, while a contact in the D.C. area cited a slight increase in sales prices. 
Commercial Realtors and construction contractor s reported little change from the generally weak 
conditions that prevailed in our last assessment, but a few encouraging signs were noted. A recent survey 
of contractors in the District revealed that one th ird of respondents experienced  no change in construction 
activity over the last three months, while forty percen t reported declining activity (compared to over fifty 
percent three months ago). Gains often came from go vernment, medical, and higher education projects, 
which have been pockets of strength. However, sever al contractors reported a recent decline in higher 
education-related construction. On the Realtor side, most contacts continued to cite weakness in demand 
from small businesses for both office and industrial sp ace. However, several Realtors noted a pickup in 
leasing to small retailers, especially independent rest aurants. A Realtor in Virginia reported limited gains 
among car dealerships and nursing homes, with most of  that business coming from long-standing clients. 
A Realtor in Raleigh reported some increase in the num ber of clients who expressed interest in taking out 
a lease in the near future. Finally, most contacts around the District indicated that rental rates were 
generally stable, and several Realtors reported a d ecrease in the number of requests for rent reductions. 
Labor Markets.  Fifth District labor market activity, especially among temporary employment 
agencies, improved slightly in recent weeks. Most contacts at temp agencies characterized demand as at 
least somewhat better in recent weeks, although a fe w agents cited weakness in demand for workers. 
However, virtually all agents indicated that de mand was still stronger than a year ago. Several 
employment agents cited uncertainty about the economy as the primary factor behind hiring temporary 
help rather than full-time employees. For example, a Ha gerstown agent said that many of his clients were 
still very uncertain about their future orders. As a resu lt, they were using continge nt labor more than they 
might if they felt that business volume would continue to increase. Increased demand for temporary 
workers was reported for a diverse set of skills, including light manufacturing assemblers, machine 
operators, forklift operators and quality inspectors.  Respondents to our latest manufacturing survey 
indicated that employment demand, while fairly ro bust in June, was little changed in July. Retail hiring 
rose slightly, according to our recent survey, and hiri ng was little changed at non-retail services providers. 
A slight majority of both retail and non-retail r espondents indicated that they were increasing wages.  
Tourism.  District tourism gained momentum in recent weeks. Contacts along the Mid-Atlantic 
coast reported bookings in line with a year ago—not withstanding last year’s “bump” from vacationers 
who relocated their vacations to the East Coast from the Gulf Coast during the oil spill disruptions. 
Hoteliers in several locations noted  a trend toward last-minute bookings, although a contact on the coast 
of North Carolina cited last year’s relocation cr unch as the impetus for more advance bookings in her 
V-4 
region this season. A resort manager in the mountai ns of western Virginia said that new summer 
attractions helped drive 95 to 100 percent occupancy at  his site. July has been “f antastic,” according to a 
hotel representative in Baltimore, with occupancy push ed up by several big events and by an increase in 
the number of family reunions. Contacts reported mostly  small rate increases for the summer. Most hotel 
and resort owners expressed optimism about potentia l business during the 2011 winter holiday season; 
some were already receiving inquiries. 
 
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Sixth District business contacts de scribed economic ac tivity as little-
changed in June through mid-July. Retail sa les grew slowly, alt hough sales of higher-end 
goods saw more traction and tourism activity wa s strong. Existing home sales remained soft 
outside of Florida, while new home sales a nd construction were w eak throughout the region. 
Downward pressure on prices of both exis ting and new homes continued to be noted. 
Contractors reported that the pace of comme rcial development was basically unchanged, 
although construction activity in healthcare and multi-family had improved. Manufacturing 
contacts indicated that production and new or ders increased but at a slower pace than 
experienced earlier in the year. Cr edit availability for entreprene urs and real estate developers 
remained tight, although loan av ailability for some commercial projects increased. Most 
business contacts indicated that their hiring plans remained mode st. Firms' expectations for 
unit cost increases have softened, mainly because non-labor input costs have moderated. 
Some energy contacts have noticed  a considerable uptick in early  stage fabrication of oil and 
gas extraction capital go ods. While most of the District continued to experience drought 
conditions, recent rains have provided relief to some of the District’s stressed farmlands. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Most District merchants re ported that retail sales 
growth was modest in June through mid-Ju ly, although some luxury goods retailers noted 
steady-to-improving sales. The outlook among most retailers was less optimistic than earlier 
in the year. The majority of contacts stated that  they were keeping inventory levels lean and 
had no plans to increase supply in the near te rm. Mid- and high-end restaurant contacts 
reported improving traffic and sa les, although their margins rema ined under pressure from 
non-labor input costs. Auto sales from Japanese  manufacturers slowed, but dealers noted that 
the impact of supply disruptions from Japan is ending.  
Leisure activity continued to accelerate in most areas. Contacts reported increases in 
room occupancy and rates in many areas. Strong attendance at theme parks, festivals, and 
coastal destinations was note d. Cruise bookings have risen as  well, and airport contacts 
observed increases in passenger traffic. The overall outlook for tourism remained positive.  
Real Estate and Construction.  According to reports from  District brokers, home 
sales were slightly ahead of last year’s weak levels. Gains continued to  be driven largely by 
reports from Florida brokers. Outside Florida, the majority of contacts reported sales declined. 
VI-2 
Brokers continued to report dec lining home inventory levels as fewer homes enter the market 
and that home prices were flat to slightly down compared with a year earlier. The outlook 
among Florida brokers was somewhat positive, but  elsewhere sales are expected to remain 
weak.   
District builders reported that new home  sales and construction weakened somewhat 
in June compared with year-ago levels. Build ers continued to repor t downward pressure on 
new home prices. Residential contractors reported that home improvement construction 
increased from earlier in the year; however, most reported that they were  unable to effectively 
pass along all cost increases. Most builders anti cipate that new home sales and construction 
will be slightly ahead of last year’s weak levels over the next several months, and most expect renovation work will continue to improve.   
About two-thirds of contractors reported th at the pace of commercial development was 
flat to slightly up compared with weak levels from a year earlier, but backlogs continued to 
shrink. Contractors commented that healthcare a nd apartment construction were bright spots 
and that renovations in comm ercial and apartment space had increased. Most contractors 
anticipate activity for the remainder of this year  will be flat to below year-ago levels. With 
regard to existing commercial structures, c ontacts reported that credit availability and 
absorption improved, especially in light indus trial, warehousing, healthcare and energy-
related space.        
Manufacturing and Transportation.  Manufacturing contacts indicated that 
production and new orders increased, but at a sl ower pace than reported earlier in the year. 
Producers of healthcare equipmen t and electrical components in  particular noted stronger 
orders, and a producer of freight  trucks is signific antly increasing output . Many manufacturers 
reported increased investment in technology equipment in efforts to increase efficiency. 
While some contacts noted that  the acceleration in input pric es had begun to moderate, the 
price of metals remained elevated. Many contac ts reported that supply chain disruptions from 
the disaster in Japan we re beginning to moderate. 
Freight forwarding and parcel shipping c ontacts reported a gr adual slowing of 
domestic volume momentum in June through mi d-July. The cost of fuel and other inputs 
continued to challenge shippers’ operating ma rgins; however, maritime contacts cited some 
VI-3 
success in passing along fuel surcharges. Input costs for trucking contacts – such as tires, 
replacement parts, and new vehicles – remained high.  Banking and Finance.  Banking contacts reported that credit was available, but 
finding qualified borrowers continued to be diffi cult. Several cited increased competition for 
qualified loans. New residential real estate loans were limited, but banks were actively 
competing for refinances. Business contacts reported credit markets improved, but loan 
standards remained high. Credit availability for entrepreneurs and real estate developers 
remained tight, although loans were available for some commercial projects – namely 
hospitals and multi-family buildings.  
Employment and Prices.  Most business contacts indica ted that their hiring plans 
remained modest. Uncertainty regarding future demand and th e regulatory environment were 
the most commonly cited reasons for the muted hiring outlook.  Of thos e that reported plans 
to increase employment, many pointed to havi ng reached maximum productivity with existing 
staff. Staffing agency contacts continued to experience high demand for temporary or contract 
workers. According to reports, demand for qua lified, higher skilled ca ndidates is robust, 
especially in the technology sector . Most contacts said that th ey did not experience significant 
upward wage pressure, and characterized annual increases and bonuses as modest.  
Firms' expectations for unit cost increases ar e more tempered than noted earlier in the 
year. Non-labor input costs ha ve moderated, but remained elevated. However, downward 
price pressures from productivity gains were re portedly tapering off. While District contacts 
have continued to report that margins remain ed squeezed, there have been more frequent 
reports that some contacts are atte mpting to pass through input costs.  
Natural Resources and Agriculture.   Some energy contacts have noticed a 
considerable uptick in early stage fabrica tion of oil and gas ex traction capital goods.  
Shipbuilding for shallow water supply boats has also increased. Shale exploration has 
increased as firms employed directional dr illing techniques for oil and gas liquids.  
While most of the District continued to  experience drought conditions, recent rains 
have provided relief to some of the District’s  stressed pastures and crops. Based on results of 
a recent state survey, a contact reports concerns that farm la bor shortages has had a negative 
impact on Georgia’s fruit and vegetable production.  
VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  Economic activity in the Seventh District  continued to expand slowly in June 
and early July. Contacts expressed heightened uncer tainty about the economic outlook given recent 
weaker-than-expected demand as well as the ongo ing fiscal issues in the U.S. and Europe. 
Consumer and business spending edged up. Manuf acturing production continued to expand at a 
steady pace while construction remained flat. Cr edit conditions again improved modestly, despite 
increased volatility in financial markets. Commo dity prices remained elevated, and there was 
further pass-through of these costs to prices downstream. After a late start to planting, crop 
conditions began to return to normal, but dryness and above-average temper atures were concerns 
for farmers in parts of the District . 
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending picked up some in June and early July. 
Consumers took advantage of retailers’ efforts to  clear inventory through early summer promotions. 
Spending on apparel and accessories increased as  did expenditures on household goods like power 
equipment and lawn and garden items. In contrast , auto sales edged lower in June, as incentives 
decreased and showroom traffic declined; sales then improved moderately in early July. Small 
passenger cars and pickup trucks continued to acc ount for most new vehicle sales. Inventories of 
small passenger cars remained lean due to contin ued supply disruptions for Japanese vehicles and 
higher demand for domestically produced small car s. Demand for used vehicles remained strong, 
and with used car inventories relativ ely low, prices rose further.  
Business spending.  Business spending also edged up from  the previous reporting period.  
Inventory investment decreased, but expenditures for equipment a nd structures increased. Several 
manufacturers reported plans to expand capacity, with a number of projects set to break ground in 
the District this fall. Renovation of  retail facilities picked up furthe r. In addition, contacts reported 
an increase in spending on research and developmen t. Hiring continued at a slow pace, with many 
manufacturers reiterating the difficulty in findi ng appropriately skilled workers. On balance, 
however, labor market conditions weakened, as a num ber of private and public sector layoffs were 
reported and unemployment ticked up in the Distri ct. Furthermore, a large staffing firm reported a 
decline in billable hours.  
Construction/real estate .  Construction activity remained subdued in June and early July. 
Construction of new single-family homes slowe d, while the construction of apartment buildings 
increased. Residential real estate conditions re mained weak. The spring and early summer season 
VII-2 
saw a slight uptick in new home sales in the Dist rict, which, according to contacts, tends to be a 
leading indicator of the sales volume for the remainder of th e year. In addition, although more 
potential homebuyers are qualifying for mortgages,  contacts noted that downward pressure on 
existing home prices continues to  restrict the availability of credit for new single-family 
construction. In contrast, nonresidential constr uction edged up with continued strong demand for 
industrial facilities, particularly from the automotive sector, partially offset by continued weakness 
in office and retail construction. Commercial real estate conditions  also improved, albeit 
moderately. Vacancy rates edged lo wer, with net absorption stabiliz ing in the retail segment and 
rebounding in the office market.   
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing production continued to expand at a steady pace from the 
previous reporting perio d. Automakers indicated that producti on was recovering from the Japanese 
supply chain disruptions in the s econd quarter. Auto inventories re main relatively low, but given 
recently lower sales, contacts reported that production would likely recover less sharply than previously expected. A contact in the auto suppl y industry noted that production losses from the 
Japanese disasters had been smaller than anti cipated, but that effort s to work around supply 
disruptions resulted in increased expenses for labor, logistics, and parts, putting pressure on 
suppliers’ margins. Capacity utilization in the steel industry reached its highest point since 2008; 
additional capacity is being added, but at a slow rate. In addition, c ontacts reported that steel service 
center inventories are tight. Several manufacturers of industrial metals  reported increases in orders 
as well as significant backlogs in  June; however, a few also noted slower activity in recent weeks. 
Despite some softening in demand from Asia a nd Europe, overall demand for heavy trucks and 
equipment continued to be strong, driven by fleet  replacement and robust activity in the mining 
sector. In contrast, shipments of  household appliances declined. 
Banking/finance .  On balance, credit conditions improve d modestly in June and early July. 
Funding costs and liquidity tightened  marginally and volatility incr eased in a number of financial 
markets. In addition, contacts expressed concern a bout the negative conseque nces that a potential 
sovereign default would have on financial markets.  Credit availability cont inued to improve, though 
standards remained tight for many borrowers. Co mpetition among lenders for the highest-quality 
customers has been stiff, lowering the cost of  capital for these borrowers. Business loan demand 
was steady. Businesses continue to mostly refi nance existing debt, though a contact noted that 
increasingly such deals were al so beginning to include an expans ionary element. Consumer loan 
VII-3 
demand improved, with the pace of deleveraging by consumers slowing somewhat. The rate of 
improvement in both business and consumer loan quality reportedly flattened out. 
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures remained elevated in June and early July. Food prices 
continued to rise, while prices for energy and some industrial meta ls, like steel, declined. Despite 
these recent declines, prices for ma ny commodities remain elevated, a nd contacts indicated that fuel 
surcharges and shipping costs have yet to come dow n. Many wholesale prices also continued to rise, 
with pass-through of these higher co sts to the retail sector picki ng up from the previous reporting 
period. Wage pressures, however, remained moderate. 
Agriculture .  There were mixed changes in crop conditions throughout the District.  A 
small percentage of acres along the Missouri River were lost to flooding. Though there was some 
concern about recent above-average temperatures, contacts still see the potential for good to excellent corn and soybean yields this fall, cont ingent upon favorable weather for the rest of the 
summer. Historically low stocks of corn and soybeans have put a premium on delivery 
commitments before harvest. On balance over the reporting period, cash prices for corn, wheat, and 
cattle were down while prices for soybeans, milk and hogs prices moved higher; all of these prices, 
however, remained above the levels of a year ago. Livestock operations faced margin pressure from 
high feed costs. Some elevators were under fina ncial pressures due to expanded margin calls on 
their contracted positions as well as higher costs for planned input purchases  for next year's crop.  
VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
Economic activity in the Eighth District has co ntinued to increase at a modest pace since 
our previous report. Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since the previous report. 
Activity in the services sector also has increased. Residential real estate activity has continued to 
decline. In contrast, commercial and industrial activity has improved modestly in some areas, 
although commercial constr uction activity has remained slow. Lending at a sample of small and 
mid-sized District banks declined in the thre e-month period from late March to late June. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity has con tinued to increase since our previous report. Several 
manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a 
smaller number of contacts reporte d plans to close plants or reduce operations. Firms in the 
wood, organic dye, automobile parts, lime, and hygiene pr oduct manufacturing industries 
reported plans to expand operations and hire new workers. Furthermore, a major firm in the 
automobile manufacturing industry announced pl ans to hire a significant number of new 
workers. In contrast, firms in the ice cream, air conditioner, and wrapping paper manufacturing 
industries announced plans to clos e plants and lay off employees. 
Activity in the District's services sector has increased since our previous report. Firms in 
the business support, human resources administra tion, entertainment, hotel, and tire wholesale 
industries announced plans to expa nd operations and hire new worker s. In contrast, contacts in 
the government, newspaper publishing, restaurant, a nd education industries  reported plans to 
decrease operations in the District and lay off em ployees. General retailers report that sales have 
VIII-2 
slowed in recent weeks. Auto deal ers report inventory shortages of quality used cars as well as 
new car models that cont ain parts supplied by Japan. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales continued to decline throughout most  of the Eighth Dist rict. Compared with 
the same period in 2010, May 2011 year-to-date ho me sales were down 15 percent in Louisville, 
13 percent in Memphis, and 21 percent in Little  Rock and St. Louis. Residential construction 
also continued to decline throughout the Distri ct. May 2011 year-to-date single-family housing 
permits decreased in the majority of the District  metro areas compared with the same period in 
2010. Permits decreased 30 percent in Little Rock, 34 percent in  St. Louis, 23 percent in 
Memphis, and 27 percent in Louisville. 
Commercial and industrial real  estate activity has experienced modest improvement in 
some regions, while constructi on activity remained slow thr oughout most of the District. A 
contact in central Arkansas reported that while offi ce real estate activity c ontinues to be stagnant, 
there are more commercial space inquires from na tional tenants. A contact in Memphis noted a 
slight increase in office space demand in the fi rst half of 2011 but noted unchanged activity for 
industrial real estate. Contacts in St. Louis noted demand gr owth for both industrial and office 
space but slow construction activity. Contacts in Louisville reported increased industrial space 
leasing activity and expect further demand growth  in this sector as new construction remains 
limited. Contacts in northeast Arkansas noted growth in commercial real estate sales and construction in the Jonesboro and Paragould areas. 
Banking and Finance 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks decreased 1.0 
percent from late March to late June. Real estate lending, which accounts for 74.3 percent of 
VIII-3 
total loans, decreased 1. 4 percent. Commercial and industria l loans, accounting for 15.6 percent 
of total loans, increased 0.8 percent. Loans to  individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of total 
loans, decreased 6.0 percent. All other loans, roughly 5.4 percent of tota l loans, increased 13.6 
percent. During this period, total deposits  at these banks decreased 0.5 percent. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
The majority of the corn, soybean, sorghum, ri ce, and cotton crops in  the Eighth District 
are currently in fair or better c ondition. Winter wheat ha rvests are either complete or close to 
completion in all District states, and the produc tion of winter wheat and the area harvested for 
the crop increased from 2010 to 2011. Finally, the fraction of pastures in good or better condition 
has declined in most District st ates since our previous report. Year-to-date coal production for 
the District, at the end of June, was 6.1 percen t higher than the same pe riod in 2010, and monthly 
production for June was 1.3 percent hi gher than production for June 2010. 
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy grew modestl y, but activity was disrupted by widespread 
flooding and a temporary Minnesota state gover nment shutdown that started on July 1. 
Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, residential construction, commercial 
and residential real estate, services, manu facturing, energy and mi ning. Mixed activity was 
noted in tourism and agriculture, while commer cial construction was steady. Private sector 
hiring grew modestly, and wage increases continued to be moderate. Overall price 
increases were moderate, although pressure  remains on a number of input prices. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending posted measured grow th. A major Minneapolis-based retailer 
reported that same-store sales in June incr eased over 4 percent compared with a year 
earlier. Two Minneapolis area ma lls noted that recent sales were trending above year-ago 
levels. A representative of an auto dealers association in Montana indicated that sales 
activity at dealerships during the past few m onths increased over last year. A Minnesota 
auto dealer noted that sales and serv ice volumes were up from last year.   
Summer tourism activity was mixed. In  western South Dakota, wet weather 
dampened the start to the season, but summer reservations for RV camping were up about 
2 percent. A travel agency in Minnesota not ed that both corporat e and leisure business 
were up from a year ago. However, Minneso ta state parks were closed during the 
government shutdown. Flooding in North Dakota has slowed tourism activity, including 
cancelation of this summer’s  state fair in Minot.  
Construction and Real Estate Several contacts from across the District re ported that recent commercial construction 
activity was steady at low le vels, while construction had stalled in flooded areas. A 
nutritional supplement producer is building a major addition in Montana. However, 
construction in the Minnesota transportation sector  stalled during the state government 
shutdown. Some private nonresidential cons truction was delayed by lack of state 
government building inspectors. Residential co nstruction increased fr om last year. The 
value of residential building permits in June  increased 19 percent from the same period a 
year earlier in the Sioux Falls , S.D., area; in Minneapolis-St. Paul, the value of June 
permits increased significantly from a year ago. 
IX-2 
 Commercial real estate markets increased slightly since the last report. Minnesota 
commercial real estate industry representativ es expect higher rents and lower vacancy 
rates, according to a May survey by the Univ ersity of St. Thomas. Retail real estate 
industry analysts expect a slight increase in  absorption, but decrea ses in rent over the 
summer in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Re sidential real estate markets grew. Home 
sales during June in Minneapolis -St. Paul and Billings, Mont.,  were up from last year’s 
post-tax-credit lull in sales. June pending sa les of homes in the Si oux Falls area increased 
from June 2010, but new listings and th e median sales price decreased. 
Services 
Professional business services firms reporte d increased activity over the past three 
months. Results of a mid-July Minneapolis Fe d ad hoc survey of 55 professional services 
firms indicated that 47 percent of the res pondents saw increased sales, while 29 percent 
saw decreased sales. Respondents noted that profits and employment also increased. The 
respondents expected this trend to continue over the next three months. However, a few 
contacts commented that the Minnesota stat e government shutdown negatively affected 
their business. Manufacturing 
The manufacturing sector grew modestly. A survey of purchasing managers by Creighton 
University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that ma nufacturing activity increased in June in 
Minnesota and South Dakota, while activity de clined in North Dakota, due in part to 
flooding disruptions. Nearly 70 percent of ma nufacturing respondents to the Minneapolis 
Fed ad hoc survey said their sales increased in the past three months. However, in North 
Dakota, an electric vehicle plant closed in June to consolidate production in Iowa, and a 
military equipment plant will close in August.  
Energy and Mining Activity in the energy and mining sectors wa s steady. A renewable energy firm recently 
announced that it will acquire a biodiesel pl ant in southern Minnesota, which has been 
idle since 2008, and resume operations there. Wind-energy development projects continued since the last report, includi ng the opening of a 40-megawatt wind farm in 
Minnesota. However, a utility announced that it was canceling plans for a $38 million 
wind farm in western South Dakota. Mid-July oil exploration activity decreased slightly 
from early June. Mining activity continued at a strong pace across the District. 
IX-3 
Agriculture 
Agriculture was mixed. While production in  western portions of the District was 
hampered by severe flooding, prices for agricu ltural outputs remained strong. Preliminary 
estimates suggest that 6.3 million acres in North Dakota may have gone unplanted due to 
flooding. Contacts suggested that impacts on ha y and feed crops coul d increase costs for 
some cattle producers, but a bank director noted that overall hay production in Montana 
and the Dakotas will be very strong due to moisture conditions. In  other parts of the 
District, crop progress has fared better recen tly than early-season indicators suggested, 
but is still behind last year’s pace. Prices for some District agricultural commodities 
increased since the last report, including corn, soybeans and dairy products; however, 
cattle and wheat prices decreased recently. 
 Employment, Wages and Prices 
While private sector hiring grew modestly, the Minnesota government shutdown resulted 
in 22,000 temporary layoffs of state governme nt employees. In Minnesota, a company 
recently announced plans to build a data center that is expected to provide more than 100 
jobs, and a steel producer will add 60 jobs this year. According to a survey by an employment services firm, 20 percent of res pondents in Minneapolis-S t. Paul expect to 
increase staffing levels during the third quarter , while 3 percent expect  to decrease staff. 
Businesses in eastern Montana and western North Dakota continued to have difficulty 
finding workers due to strong oil drilling activity in the region. 
Wage increases were moderate. Recent settlements with labor unions generally 
included modest wage increases over the ne xt two to three ye ars. According to 
respondents to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, 34 percent 
expect to increase employee compensation at their companies over the next six months, 
up from last year’s survey, when  24 percent expected increases. 
Overall price increases were moderate, a lthough pressure remains on a number of 
input prices. Mid-July Minnesota gasoline pric es were about the same  as early June, but 
were $1 per gallon higher than a year ago. Mean while, prices for copper, lead, nickel and 
zinc increased. A Minnesota-based food pr oducer reported that food ingredients are 
expected to rise at least 10 percent over the next year. 
 
 X-1 
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy expanded at a m oderate pace in the June and early July 
survey period. Consumer spendi ng rose solidly and was especia lly strong among restaurants and 
auto dealers. Factory producti on rebounded from weakness in th e prior survey period, and high-
tech and transportation services firms reporte d continued growth. District bankers reported 
weaker loan demand but increased deposits a nd improved loan quality. Weak home sales and 
expanded inventory levels furthe r pressured single-family home prices, while commercial real 
estate activity remained slow but  stable. Activity in the energy  sector was robust as drilling 
expanded in most District  states. Conditions in agriculture were generally st rong. Rising input 
costs were reported in several s ectors, but wage pressures were limited to select industries and 
occupations. 
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending increased at a solid pace in June and early 
July, and most contacts expected sales gains in the months ahead. Auto dealers reported strong 
sales despite reduced incentives, with demand str ongest for small, fuel-efficient vehicles. Dealers 
noted the continued benefit of low interest rates on sales and attributed some of the recent sales 
boost to tornado damage in areas of Oklahoma and Missouri. Car and light truck inventory levels 
were reported as generally satisfactory, alt hough shortages remained for some Japanese 
nameplates due to the tsunami. Restaurant sa les accelerated in June, and the outlook for the 
coming three months remained strong. However, restaurant profit margins were pressured by 
increased food costs and a further decline in th e average check amount. General retailers in the 
District reported flat sales in  the survey period, but activity re mained well above year-ago levels. 
Current retail inventories were  viewed as adequate, but ma ny retailers pla nned to expand 
inventory in the coming months. Sales of low pr ice consumer goods were strong, while sales of 
many luxury items remained sluggish. District tourism visitor counts were generally up, 
especially at Colorado mountain resorts, but were slowed by w ildfires and drought in northern 
New Mexico. District hotelier s reported increased occupa ncy and daily room rates. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.  Tenth District ma nufacturing activity 
rebounded from weakness in the prior survey peri od, while high-tech and transportation activity 
expanded further. Factory operators reported that both production and shipments bounced back 
following weakness in May. The outlook among manuf acturers remained positive as new orders 
 
 X-2 
and backlogs similarly rebounded.  Inventorie s of finished goods were stable. Factory 
employment increased in June for the eighth consecutive month and the average workweek expanded slightly. Raw materials costs increased  and put upward pressure on finished goods 
prices. Factory operators also in dicated slightly weaker capital spending plans in the coming six 
months. Transportation services firms reported in creased activity in the current survey period 
and were optimistic about future bookings. Severa l trucking contacts cite d continued difficulty 
attracting qualified over- the-road drivers. Sales growth wa s strong at high-tech firms despite 
some downward price pressure. High-tech firms remained optimistic about future sales gains and planned to increase capital spending in coming months. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Excess inventory weighed on single-family home 
prices, while commercial real esta te remained weak but stable. R eal estate firms reported flat 
existing home sales, higher home inventory, and lower home prices in June and early July. 
Contacts reported an increased  share of existing home purch ases by investors in all-cash 
transactions. Expectations for improvement in the housing sector were subdued. Home builders 
reported little new construction ac tivity but noted increased buyer tr affic. Entry-level homes sold 
well, along with high-end homes in some Colo rado mountain resort communities. Apartment 
managers reported higher rents and lower vacancy rates. In commercial leasing, absorption and 
vacancy rates were flat, and only small declines in rent and prices were reported.  Further 
declines in rent and prices were expected a nd overall commercial leas ing terms continued to 
favor tenants. Commercial construction remained  stable but weak, with strength reported in 
multi-family residential projects. Builders i ndicated that access to credit improved slightly. 
Construction supply firms reported increased sa les since the last su rvey, though inventories 
increased. Construction materials prices rema ined steady excluding petroleum-based products. 
Banking.  In the recent survey period, bankers reported weaker loan demand but 
increased deposits and improvements in loan qua lity. Overall loan demand was slightly weaker 
than in the previous survey. Demand for reside ntial real estate loans was unchanged, while 
demand for commercial and industrial loans, co mmercial real estate loans, and consumer 
installment loans decreased. Credit standards rema ined unchanged in all major loan categories, 
and deposits increased for the f ourth straight survey. Bankers reported improvements in loan 
quality compared with a year ago and in the ou tlook for loan quality over the next six months. 
 
 
 X-3 
Energy.  District energy activity expanded at a solid pace since the last survey, and 
contacts expected continued growth in coming months. Dril ling activity expanded in most 
District states, however extended permitting delays were noted on Bureau of Land Management sites in Wyoming. Oil and gas contacts expected litt le change in crude oil and natural gas prices 
in the coming three months. Energy firms increas ed hiring in the current survey period but 
reported difficulty finding qualified workers. Availability of equipment remained a constraint to 
expansion, but financing was viewed as adequa te. Weak coal production in the Powder River 
Basin kept output well below y ear-ago levels. Ethanol production edged up with slightly higher 
prices and profits this summer. 
Agriculture.  Agricultural conditions varied with w eather and input costs. Poor pasture 
conditions due to drought in the Southern Plains  prompted increased pl acements of cattle in 
feedlots. However, initial reports on wheat yields  in drought areas of Kans as and Oklahoma were 
poor but better than expecte d. The corn and soybean crops were progressing normally and 
generally rated in good or better condition, espe cially in Nebraska. Agricultural commodity 
prices remained high but volatile  in recent weeks, shifting with  export and production forecasts. 
Rising feed costs trimmed margins for livestock pr oducers. Higher prices for fertilizer, fuel, and 
feed boosted farm loan demand. Elevated crop pri ces fueled further gains in District cropland 
values.  
Wages and Prices.  District contacts re ported only limited wage pressures but noted 
additional upward pressure on input prices. Labor shortages and wage pre ssures were reported in 
the retail sector and for select occupations in the high-tech, energy, and transportation sectors. In 
addition, several contacts expected  future non-wage employment co sts to rise as a result of 
increased state unemployment insurance premiu ms. Manufacturers reported continued upward 
pressure on input costs; slightly fewer manufact urers reported increased finished product prices. 
Builders reported higher overall prices for cons truction materials, and transportation contacts 
remained concerned about the impact of high fu el costs on profit margins. Expectations across 
most industries were for furthe r input price increase s in the coming three months. Restaurants 
had raised menu prices since th e last survey and expected fu rther increases in the coming 
months. 
XI-1 
 
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS   
 
 The Eleventh District economy expanded at a modera te pace over the past six weeks. Energy-related 
activity remained strong. Reports from manufacturer s were mixed but mostly positive, although some 
construction-related producers were le ss optimistic than they were six weeks ago. Nonfinancial services 
activity rose, with strong demand for staffing services. The single-family housing sector remained weak, but 
the commercial real estate sector continued to improve. Financial services respondents said overall loan 
demand was flat during the reporting period, and contact s in the agricultural sector noted drought conditions 
worsened.  
Prices    Selling prices were flat or higher since the last report. Most manufacturers said selling prices 
were stable, while several service sector companies we re able to enact some price increases, including 
transportation and retail firms. These price increases we re in response to higher input prices. Accounting, 
legal and staffing firms reported slight increases in rat es charged for their services.  Input prices increased at 
most responding firms, although several contacts said upward pressure from higher energy costs eased in recent weeks as oil prices declined. Transportation firm s, including airlines, noted that the recent price 
declines for fuel will have a larger impact on input co sts later in July and August. Retailers said cost 
pressures were squeezing margins, and food manufacture rs said commodity prices were up significantly from 
last year.  
The price of crude oil fell from over $100 per barrel in early June to about $95 at the end of the 
reporting period in early July. Gasoline prices fell ab out 15 cents during the reporting period. Natural gas 
prices remained in the $4-$5 per Mcf range, but edged up since the last report because of hot weather. Prices 
for most petrochemical products fell since the last report, according to contacts. 
Labor Market    Employment levels held steady at most  responding firms, although there were 
several reports of hiring. Staffing firms reported continued strong dema nd for their services. In addition, 
there were some mentions of mode rate employment increases from automobile dealers, transportation service 
firms and manufacturers of primary and fabricated meta ls, transportation equipment, lumber and food. Legal 
firms noted solid demand for talented attorneys, and added that start dates for some new hires had been 
moved up from January 2012 to fall 2011. In contrast, one construction-related ma nufacturer reported a new 
round of layoffs, and one retail firm  was considering reducing staff le vels next year. Wage pressures 
remained minimal, although some contacts noted that they were giving modest pay raises.  
Manufacturing   Reports from construction-related manufact urers were mixed. Overall, activity 
levels appeared to be unchanged. Multifamily activ ity provided a boost to some firms, although several 
contacts said public and government demand had dimini shed. In particular though, fabricated metals 
producers noted a pick-up in growth since the last repor t due to infrastructure projects. Construction-related 
XI-2 
 
outlooks were generally flat to slightly up, a nd contacts believe there will not be much rebound until 
residential and commercial construc tion recover, which may take longer than previously expected. 
Respondents in high-tech manufacturing reported that growth in orders remained at a moderate pace 
since the last Beige Book. One respondent with gr eater-exposure-than-average to Japanese production said 
second-quarter sales were well below pre-earthquake e xpectations, but that growth in June was strong 
enough to finish the quarter slightly above their expect ations. Inventories were at  desired levels, although one 
respondent said that a one-time reduction in orders from a customer left them with slightly higher-than-
desired levels. Most contacts expect orders and sales growth  to remain moderate or to pick up slightly in the 
second half of the year.    
Reports from paper manufacturers  were mixed. Demand for corrugated packaging improved, but 
paper suppliers noted flat to slightly slower sales.  Manufacturers of non-defense transportation equipment 
reported strong sales with demand flat to slightly up  since the last report and well above year-ago levels. 
Food producers said sales continued to rise at a steady pace. 
Petrochemical producers said demand remained st rong for most products. Contacts said domestic 
demand has improved, and export market s have re-opened since the last report. Refinery utilization moved 
up to near 90 percent, and contacts in the refining indus try said margins narrowed slightly but remained very 
strong, although demand for oil products is sli ghtly lower than the same time last year. 
Retail Sales    Retailers reported a slight increase in activity ov er the reporting period. Compared to a 
year ago, same store sales are up in the mid-to-low sing le digits. Apparel and jewelry are segments that have 
performed well recently. Concerns remain regarding the elevated level of unemployment. Texas sales 
increased slightly more than the natio n on average, according to one la rge retailer. The second half of the 
year should see modest year-over-year growth. Autom obile demand remains strong, but supply constraints 
stemming from Japan are limiting sales. Japanese manufact urers are primarily affected, but inventories of 
domestic autos are below desired levels as well. This is expected to last for another 90 days or less before 
improving through year-end.  
   Non-financial Services   Staffing firms reported continued strong demand for their services. Temp-
to-hire activity has been a bright spot, with long assignment lengths and several conversions to permanent 
hires. Outlooks are cautiously optimistic, with most  respondents expecting continued strength in demand 
through year-end. Accounting firms noted a seasonal slowdown in demand for their services. Legal firms 
reported mostly steady demand, with con tinued growth in transactional services. 
Intermodal cargo volumes increased since the last  report, but year-over-year volumes are down due 
to a sharp decline in Asian demand for raw materials. Contacts in railroad transportation noted a broad-based 
increase in shipments, with particularly strong volume growth in metallic and non metallic ores and grains. 
Container volumes declined during the reporting peri od, although contacts said demand has strengthened 
XI-3 
 
from a year ago, due to energy-related activity. Small parcel shipments rebounded in June after declining in 
May. Still, outlooks are more pessimistic than previous ly reported, partly due to high fuel costs dampening 
consumer spending. Airlines report some softening in de mand in June compared with May, likely due to an 
increase in airfares for last-minute travel. However, p assenger volumes are up on a year-over-year basis, and 
the outlook for the summer is positive. 
Financial Services    Financial firms reported relatively flat loan demand. National banks reported 
less pickup in corporate loan demand following a very ac tive first half of the year, while commercial real 
estate (CRE) activity has continued its trend of impr ovement. Regional banks noted that loan demand has 
been mixed, while loan pricing remains aggressive amidst a highly competitive lending landscape. Outlooks 
are generally positive in light of better outstanding loan quality and continued gradual improvement in 
lending conditions. Optimism has been tempered by c onsumer fear regarding ec onomic and fiscal policy 
uncertainty as well as the burden and costs associated  with the implementation of new regulations.  
Construction and Real Estate   Single-family home sales remain weak, particularly in the lower 
priced segment of the market. Contacts say demand is choppy from month to month, but most expect some improvement in the second half of the year.  
Apartment demand remains strong and rents conti nue to increase. Contacts noted the Dallas/Fort 
Worth area topped the national rankings in leasing activity in the second quarter.  
Office and industrial real estate activity improved since the last report. Contacts say Texas markets 
are performing better than the national average ove rall. One respondent noted office demand was quite 
strong in Texas’ major metros and that rents were st arting to rise. Investment property sales continued to 
improve from low levels, and prices rose slightly.  
Energy   Domestic drilling activity remained strong sin ce the last report, according to Eleventh 
District firms in the energy industry. The rig count continues to shift towards oil-directed drilling, and 
contacts noted horizontal drilling and fracturing activity re main very profitable. In the Gulf of Mexico, 15 
rigs have been re-permitted—with  seven currently working and near completion—although a lack of new 
permits this year has led to some concerns about the pr ospects for Gulf work later in the year. International 
activity remains strong, but profit margins are thin.  
Agriculture    Drought conditions worsened, with about thr ee-quarters of the district now in the most 
severe drought classification. Most Texas counties were  designated natural disaster  areas in June because 
they lost at least 30 percent of crops and pasture to drought. President Obama signed a disaster declaration in 
July for 45 counties in Texas that we re heavily impacted by wildfires, wh ich allows federal aid to help with 
recovery efforts. Crop conditions c ontinued to deteriorate, causing low yields and complete crop losses in 
some instances. Farmers will depend heavily on crop in surance payments this year . Ranchers continued to 
cull herds due to very poor grazing conditions, limite d hay supply and costly supplemental feeding. 
XII-1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District grew  modestly during the reporting period of June 
through mid-July.  Upward price pressures eased ove rall as the prices of oil and selected raw materials 
fell, and upward pressures on wages remained quite limite d on balance.  Sales of retail items were mixed, 
while demand for business and consumer services rose somewhat.  District manufacturing activity 
strengthened slightly.  Sales continued to grow fo r agricultural producers, while mining and extraction 
activity for natural resources expanded further.  Home sales and construction remained sluggish, and 
demand for commercial real estate was weak overall, although continued modest strengthening was noted 
for some areas. Contacts from financial instituti ons reported largely stable loan demand.  
Wages and Prices 
 Upward price pressures were limited during the re porting period.  Price declines were noted for 
oil and selected raw materials such as aluminum.  Furthermore, modest demand and stiff competition 
continued to hold down final prices for most re tail goods and services, although food prices remained 
quite elevated.  Looking ahead, contacts in most s ectors anticipate that prices for their products will 
remain largely stable to slightly up through the end of  the year, with larger gains expected for apparel. 
 Contacts reported that upward wage pressures were  very modest overall, although some pointed 
to notable increases in the costs of employee benefits .  Compensation gains in most regions and sectors of 
the District continued to be held down by high unem ployment and limited hiring activity.  However, 
upward wage pressures remained prono unced in various sectors for worker s with specialized skills in the 
application of information technology. Retail Trade and Services 
 Retail sales were mixed.  Sales were largely flat  for discount chains, while traditional department 
stores, particularly those catering to the luxury seg ment of the market, noted ongoing sales gains.  
Similarly, retailers of big-ticket items such as ma jor appliances and furniture reported modest sales 
increases since the prior reporting period.  Grocery sal es remained largely flat.  Sales of new automobiles 
XII-2 
declined, as lingering supply chain di sruptions associated with the natu ral disaster in Japan earlier this 
year significantly reduced dealer inventories.  In r esponse to the shortage of new vehicles, dealer demand 
for used vehicles ramped up, further bolsteri ng sales prices and trade-in values.      
 Demand for business and consumer services increased  on balance.  Sales continued to expand for 
providers of technology services, in particular for digi tal media services used for Internet-capable mobile 
devices.  By contrast, demand for transportation services remained largely flat, as did demand for 
professional services.  Suppliers of energy services re ported further growth in deliveries to households 
and businesses, although the pace of growth slowed.  Providers of health-care services reported that 
demand for their services remained weak.  Restaurants and other food-service providers saw demand soften slightly.  However, conditions  continued to improve in the travel  and tourism industry, with further 
demand growth reported in both the business and tourism segments of the market.  
Manufacturing 
 District manufacturing activity strengthened a bit further during the reporting period of June through mid-July.  Production rates remained near capac ity for makers of commercial aircraft and parts.  
Demand improved modestly for manufacturers of se miconductors and other t echnology products, with 
reports pointing to high levels of capacity utilization, continued growth in sales, and inventories that were 
at or near desired levels given the pace of sales.   Production activity and sales improved somewhat for 
metal fabricators, with gains in foreign demand more  than offsetting weak domestic demand.  Similarly, 
capacity utilization rates remained largely stable for petroleum refiners, as export growth for gasoline and 
distillate products helped to re duce inventories.  Demand continue d to be especially weak for wood 
product manufacturers, with the exception of the pulp and paper sector, which has seen sustained 
increases in orders.  
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand continued to grow for agricultural produc ts, and it expanded further on net for mined 
products and natural resources used for energy pro duction.  Final sales and orders were robust and 
continued to grow for a range of crop and livestock pr oducts.  Contacts generally noted stable input costs 
XII-3 
and supply conditions, alth ough wildfires in Arizona caused wid espread destruction of grazing land, 
prompting ranchers to reduce their stocks and cau sing sharp financial losses in some cases.  Mining 
activity in parts of the District expanded further in r esponse to elevated prices for an assortment of metals.  
Strong global demand for oil combined with a slight increase in domestic demand, prompting additional 
increases in extraction activity, and extraction of na tural gas was largely stable or grew somewhat.  
Real Estate and Construction 
 
 Home demand in the District was essentially  unchanged at very low levels, and demand for 
commercial real estate remained weak, albeit with furt her modest improvement in some areas.  The pace 
of home sales remained sluggish across the District, putting downward pressure on prices and the pace of new home construction, although sales of existing hom es picked up a bit in parts of California.  In 
contrast to homeownership, demand for rental sp ace continued to grow, prompting rent increases and 
rising construction activity for multifamily units in some areas.  Conditions in commercial real estate 
markets remained challenging, as v acancy rates for office and industrial space stayed high in many parts 
of the District.  However, contacts continued to no te improvement in investor demand and leasing activity 
in a few major markets, primarily in the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle.  Financial Institutions 
 District banking contacts reported that loan de mand was little changed on balance compared with 
the previous reporting period.  Businesses’ cautious appr oach to capital spending continued to restrain 
demand for commercial and industrial loans, a lthough scattered reports pointed to intensifying 
competition among lenders to extend credit to well- qualified small and medium-sized businesses.  
Looking ahead, reports from contacts in most sector s suggest that capital spending will expand only 
modestly through the duration of the year.  Consum er loan demand was largely unchanged.  Lending 
standards remained relatively restrictive for most categories of business and consumer loans.  Venture 
capital financing expanded further, with contact s noting heightened levels of IPO activity.  
 