The Beige Book
Summar y of Commentar y on
Current Economic Conditions b y
Federal Reser ve District
May 2025
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
Contents
About This Publication ................................................................................................... .ii
National Summar y.......................................................................................................... .1
Federal Reser ve Bank of Boston ................................................................................. .5
Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York............................................................................. .8
Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia ...................................................................... .12
Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland ........................................................................... .16
Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond .......................................................................... .20
Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta ............................................................................... .23
Federal Reser ve Bank of Chicago ............................................................................. .27
Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis ............................................................................ .31
Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis ...................................................................... .34
Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas City ....................................................................... .38
Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas ................................................................................. .42
Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco ................................................................... .46i
About This Publication
What is the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is a F ederal Reser ve System publication about cur rent economic conditions
across the 12 F ederal Reser ve Districts. It characterizes regional economic conditions and pros-
pects based on a variet y of mostl y qualitati ve infor mation, gathered directl y from each District’ s
sources. Repor ts are published eight times per year .
What is the pur pose of the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is intended to characterize the change in economic conditions since the last
repor t. Outreach for the Beige Book is one of man y ways the F ederal Reser ve System engages
with businesses and other organizations about economic de velopments in their communities.
Because this infor mation is collected from a wide range of contacts through a variet y of for mal
and infor mal methods, the Beige Book can complement other for ms of regional infor mation gath-
ering. The Beige Book is not a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.
How is the infor mation collected?
Each F ederal Reser ve Bank gather s infor mation on cur rent economic conditions in its District
through repor ts from Bank and Branch director s, plus inter views and online questionnaires com-
pleted b y businesses, communit y organizations, economists, mar ket experts, and other sources.
Contacts are not selected at random; rather , Banks stri ve to curate a di verse set of sources that
can pro vide accurate and objecti ve infor mation about a broad range of economic acti vities. The
Beige Book ser ves as a regular summar y of this infor mation for the public.
How is the infor mation used?
The infor mation from contacts supplements the data and anal ysis used b y Federal Reser ve econo -
mists and staff to assess economic conditions in the F ederal Reser ve Districts. The qualitati ve
nature of the Beige Book creates an o pportunity to characterize dynamics and identify emerging
trends in the econom y that ma y not be readil y app arent in the a vailable economic data. This infor-
Note: The F ederal Reser ve officiall y identifies Districts b y number and Reser ve Bank cit y. In the 12th District, the Seattle
Branch ser ves Alaska, and the San F rancisco Bank ser ves Haw aii. The System ser ves commonw ealths and ter ritories as
follows: the Ne w York Bank ser ves the Commonw ealth of Puer to Rico and the U.S. V irgin Islands; the San F rancisco Bank
serves American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonw ealth of the Nor thern Mariana Islands. The Board of Go vernors revised
the branch boundaries of the System in F ebruary 1996.ii
mation enables comp arison of economic conditions in different p arts of the countr y, which can be
helpful for assessing the outlook for the national econom y.
The Beige Book does not ha ve the type of infor mation I’m looking
for. What other infor mation is a vailable?
The F ederal Reser ve System conducts a wide ar ray of recur ring sur veys of businesses, house-
holds, and communit y organizations. A list of statistical releases compiled b y the F ederal Reser ve
Board is a vailable here, links to each of the F ederal Reser ve Banks are a vailable here, and a sum-
mary of the System’ s communit y outreach is a vailable here. In addition, Fed Listens  events ha ve
been held around the countr y to hear about how monetar y polic y affects peo ples’ daily lives and
livelihoods. The System also relies on a variet y of advisor y councils —whose member s are draw n
from a wide ar ray of businesses, non-profit organizations, and communit y groups—to hear di verse
perspecti ves on the econom y in car rying out its responsibilities.iii The Beige Book
National Summar y
Overall Economic Activity
Repor ts across the t welve F ederal Reser ve Districts indicate that economic acti vity has declined
slightl y since the pre vious repor t. Half of the Districts repor ted slight to moderate declines in
activity, three Districts repor ted no change, and three Districts repor ted slight growth. All Districts
repor ted ele vated le vels of economic and polic y uncer tainty, which ha ve led to hesitanc y and a
cautious approach to business and household decisions. Manufacturing acti vity declined slightl y.
Consumer spending repor ts were mixed, with most Districts repor ting slight declines or no
change; how ever, some Districts repor ted increases in spending on items e xpected to be affected
by tariffs. Residential real estate sales w ere little changed, and most District repor ts on ne w home
constr uction indicate flat or slowing constr uction acti vity. Repor ts on bank loan demand and
capital spending plans w ere mixed. Acti vity at por ts was robust, while repor ts on transpor tation
and w arehouse acti vity in other areas w ere mixed. On balance, the outlook remains slightl y pessi-
mistic and uncer tain, unchanged relati ve to the pre vious repor t. How ever, a fe w District repor ts
indicate the outlook has deteriorated while a fe w other s indicate the outlook has impro ved.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment has been little changed since the pre vious repor t. Most Districts described emplo y-
ment as flat, three Districts repor ted slight-to -modest increases, and t wo Districts repor ted slight
declines. Man y Districts repor ted low er emplo yee tur nover rates and more applicants for o pen
positions. Comments about uncer tainty dela ying hiring w ere widespread. All Districts described
lower labor demand, citing declining hour s wor ked and o vertime, hiring p auses, and staff reduction
plans. Some Districts repor ted la yoffs in cer tain sector s, but these la yoffs w ere not per vasive.
Two Districts noted that, for man y of their contacts, hiring plans had not changed since the star t
of the year . Wages continued to grow at a modest p ace, although man y Districts repor ted a gen-
eral easing in w age pressures. A fe w Districts indicated that higher costs of li ving continued to put
upward pressure on w ages.
Note: This repor t was prep ared at the F ederal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis based on infor mation collected on or before
May 23, 2025. This document summarizes comments recei ved from contacts outside the F ederal Reser ve System and is
not a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.1
Prices
Prices ha ve increased at a moderate p ace since the pre vious repor t. There w ere widespread
repor ts of contacts e xpecting costs and prices to rise at a faster rate going forw ard. A fe w Dis-
tricts described these e xpected cost increases as strong , significant, or substantial. All District
repor ts indicated that higher tariff rates w ere putting upw ard pressure on costs and prices. How-
ever, contacts ’ responses to these higher costs varied, including increasing prices on affected
items, increasing prices on all items, reducing profit margins, and adding temporar y fees or sur-
charges. Contacts that plan to p ass along tariff-related costs e xpect to do so within three months.
Highlights b y Federal Reser ve District
Boston
Economic acti vity decreased slightl y overall. Consumer spending at retail stores and restaurants slow ed
modestl y. Emplo yers paused hiring because of heightened uncer tainty, with emplo yment declining
slightl y and w ages increasing just barel y. Prices increased onl y slightl y, but larger price increases w ere
expected for the summer . Contacts e xpressed mixed vie ws concer ning the outlook. 
New York
Economic acti vity in the Second District continued to decline modestl y amid heightened uncer-
tainty. Emplo yment held steady , though demand for wor kers softened and w age growth slow ed to a
modest p ace. Selling price increases remained moderate, but input prices gre w strongl y with tariff-
induced cost increases. Capital spending plans declined, and the outlook w as quite pessimistic.
Philadelphia
Business acti vity declined modestl y in the cur rent Beige Book period, as it did in the last period.
Emplo yment declined slightl y, despite an uptick in manufacturing sector jobs. W ages increased
slightl y, and fir m price inflation w as up moderatel y. Existing home sales gre w slightl y, and ne w
home sales declined moderatel y. Expectations for future growth rose moderatel y for manufac-
turers and slightl y for nonmanufacturer s.
Cleveland
District business acti vity continued to be flat in recent w eeks, and contacts e xpected acti vity to
remain flat in the months ahead. Retailer s noted a pullback in consumer spending , and manufac-
turers repor ted softer order s. Man y contacts attributed robust cost increases to tariffs and said
that their selling prices increased moderatel y.2 The Beige Book
Richmond
The regional econom y continued to grow mildl y in recent w eeks. Consumer spending and nonfinan-
cial ser vices demand pick ed up slightl y, financial ser vices demand and real estate acti vity were
little changed, and manufacturing acti vity contracted slightl y. Port volumes increased strongl y due
to a surge in impor t activity. Emplo yment rose slightl y, wage growth w as modest, and o verall price
growth remained moderate.
Atlanta
The econom y of the Sixth District gre w slightl y. Emplo yment w as steady , and w age pressure
decreased. Prices increased moderatel y. Consumer spending w as flat, and tra vel and tourism
declined modestl y. Home sales rose slightl y. Transpor tation acti vity grew at a modest p ace. Loan
growth slow ed. Manufacturing fell, but energ y acti vity rose slowl y.
Chicago
Economic acti vity increased slightl y. Consumer spending and emplo yment increased modestl y;
business spending and constr uction and real estate acti vity were flat; manufacturing declined
slightl y; and nonbusiness contacts saw a slight decline in acti vity. Prices and w ages rose mod-
estly, and financial conditions loosened slightl y. Prospects for 2025 far m income increased some.
St. Louis
Economic acti vity has remained unchanged, but the outlook has slightl y deteriorated. Emplo yment
levels w ere unchanged, and w age growth has been modest. Contacts e xpressed ele vated uncer-
tainty and concer n that tariffs would result in fur ther cost increases.
Minneapolis
The District econom y contracted slightl y overall. Emplo yment w as flat and w ages gre w moderatel y.
Some emplo yers were prep aring contingenc y plans for potential la yoffs. Prices increased moder-
ately overall; some contacts w ere adding or considering tariff surcharges. Manufacturing increased
moderatel y and consumer spending fell. Agricultural conditions remained w eak, but cro p progress
was solid.
Kansas City
Overall acti vity declined moderatel y, driven b y lower retail spending , a decline in the demand for
single-famil y homes, and a slight contraction in manufacturing . Businesses indicated the y were
increasingl y cautious about hiring plans and capital e xpenditures, but emplo yment le vels
were steady .National Summar y 3
Dallas
Economic acti vity in the Ele venth District econom y was little changed o ver the repor ting period.
Nonfinancial ser vices acti vity held steady and growth in the manufacturing sector slow ed. Loan vol-
umes gre w slightl y, and the housing mar ket remained subdued. Emplo yment w as flat and price
pressures held steady e xcept for the tariff-related increases seen in the manufacturing sector . Out-
looks generall y deteriorated, and tariff uncer tainty was making it hard for businesses to plan for
the future.
San F rancisco
Economic acti vity slow ed slightl y. Emplo yment le vels w ere generall y stable. W ages rose slightl y
and prices increased modestl y. Retail sales and consumer and business ser vices demand eased.
Conditions in manufacturing , agriculture, and real estate mar kets softened slightl y. Activity in the
financial ser vices sector w as stable.4 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Boston
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity slow ed slightl y amid per sistent uncer tainty. Consumer s appeared increasingl y
cautious, e videnced b y modest declines in retail and restaurant sales and slight declines in home
sales. Manufacturing sales increased b y a ver y small margin, on a verage. Commercial real estate
activity was flat o verall, but office leasing e xpanded modestl y in Boston and Pro vidence. Uncer-
tainty led to hiring dela ys, and emplo yment declined a bit as a result. Prices rose onl y modestl y,
but nontri vial price increases w ere expected to hit consumer goods b y summer . The outlook w as
mostl y unchanged and w as characterized b y a mix of cautious o ptimism and blunt pessimism. The
more o ptimistic contacts pointed to the possibilit y that resolution of uncer tainty could unlock eco -
nomic acti vity moving forw ard; the more pessimistic contacts, in contrast, emphasized the poten-
tial negati ve imp acts on demand from tariffs and other federal policies.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as dow n slightl y, and w ages edged up. Staffing ser vices contacts said that
emplo yers across man y industries dela yed hiring because of uncer tainty related to tariffs. Manu-
facturing contacts echoed that description, repor ting that headcounts w ere dow n slightl y amid cau-
tious hiring . Regarding labor suppl y, government-sector la yoffs brought ne w jobseek ers to the
market, while cur rent emplo yees in retail, restaurant, and other industries became less lik ely to
quit or seek ne w jobs. W ages increased onl y slightl y as a variet y of fir ms dela yed planned raises,
again because of tariff-related uncer tainty. Some manufacturing fir ms, especiall y those less
exposed to tariffs, proceeded with moderate annual merit increases. Staffing fir ms said that
starting compensation rates w ere mostl y stable but noted that e xperienced p ay rates decreased
moderatel y for selected roles. Contacts agreed that economic uncer tainty would probabl y continue
to hold back labor demand going forw ard, but no major la yoffs w ere planned.
Prices
Prices rose onl y modestl y in recent months, but a growing number of contacts planned to raise
prices going forw ard. Manufacturer s’ prices increased moderatel y on a verage, dri ven b y a partial
pass-through of tariff-related cost increases. How ever, some manufacturer s held prices fixed,
either because the y were not e xposed to tariffs or because the y stockpiled in ventories of foreign
5
inputs in advance of tariffs. Retail prices w ere stable recentl y but w ere expected to rise substan-
tially in the coming months. A clothing retailer , which t ypicall y tags items with prices months in
advance, took the rare step to retag items with higher prices to co ver the cost of tariffs, and those
items will hit store shelves this summer . Restaurant menu prices w ere stable, but tariffs on
impor ted foods could dri ve menu prices higher o ver the summer . Hotel prices in Boston increased
modestl y year-o ver-year . Staffing fir ms’ billing rates w ere unchanged, although their insurance
costs increased shar ply. Pricing plans w ere mixed, as fir ms not e xposed to tariffs planned to k eep
prices steady , while fir ms exposed to tariffs e xpected to raise prices b y moderate or potentiall y
large margins, depending on the e ventual size of the tariffs.
Retail and T ourism
First District restaurant sales and retail sales slow ed modestl y in recent months, while tourism
activity was flat. A Massachusetts restaurant industr y contact said that, following a ver y slow
winter season, April’ s sales remained depressed relati ve to one year ear lier, while Ma y’s sales so
far came closer to last Ma y’s levels. A clothing retailer e xperienced flat sales o verall in recent
months. A discount retailer repor ted a modest decline in sales o verall, dri ven b y substantial
declines at stores along the Canadian border . Airline p assenger traffic through Boston increased
modestl y, with most of the growth coming from inter national tra vel. The hotel occup ancy rate in
greater Boston dro pped slightl y from a year ear lier but remained strong comp ared with long-r un
averages. Restaurant contacts remained cautious about the outlook but gained some o ptimism
based on recent acti vity. Retailer s expected tariffs to continue to w eigh on cross-border commerce
from Canada and, e ventuall y, to hur t domestic demand once pending price increases w ent
into effect.
Manufacturing and Related Ser vices
Manufacturing sales w ere up slightl y on a verage from the pre vious quar ter, as most fir ms repor ted
flat sales and onl y one e xperienced moderate growth. F irms said that demand for goods and ser-
vices had slow ed in recent months amid uncer tainty over the imp act of tariffs. Most fir ms boosted
inventories of foreign inputs to get ahead of tariffs. Capital e xpenditures w ere largel y unchanged;
however, one fir m considered making additional in vestments in the U.S. to mitigate the imp act of
tariffs. The outlook became more pessimistic on balance, as most fir ms expected sales to slow at
least modestl y in the coming quar ters. The e xpected w eakness stemmed mostl y from tariff-related
concer ns, but a contact in the life sciences industr y cited cuts to federal research funds as a
downside risk, and a veterinar y industr y contact pointed to consumer w eakness as their main
obstacle to growth. Nonetheless, a manufacturer of domestic-made goods with limited e xposure to
tariffs maintained an o ptimistic outlook.6 The Beige Book
Staffing Ser vices
Contacts in the F irst District e xperienced some what w eaker demand on balance. Outcomes w ere mixed,
however, ranging from a moderate increase in demand from one year ear lier, to an abr upt decline in re v-
enues from the pre vious quar ter. The composition of staffing demand also varied across fir ms, with one
noting an increase in temporar y hire demand and a decrease in direct hire roles, and another repor ting
the opposite p attern. Contacts noted that hiring acti vity was constrained b y uncer tainty surrounding tar-
iffs. The outlook for staffing demand ranged from cautiousl y optimistic to some what pessimistic, in line
with fir ms’ respecti ve recent e xperiences.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate acti vity was flat on balance amid mixed repor ts. Office leasing pick ed up mod-
estly in Boston and Pro vidence, while in the Har tford area, industrial leasing slow ed, and office leasing
was stagnant. P olicy uncer tainty held back greater acti vity, causing man y businesses to dela y major
decisions. In vestment sales w ere mixed and about flat on a verage. Contacts noted that deals took
longer to close, and one said that foreign in vestor s grew generall y skittish about in vesting in the United
States. Constr uction acti vity slow ed modestl y, constrained b y rising costs, but demand for multifamil y
constr uction remained high. A Pro vidence contact noted a rise in office-to -residential con versions, but
Boston-area contacts repor ted comp aratively little such acti vity. The outlook w as mar ked by elevated
uncer tainty, and changes in sentiment w ere mixed. Most contacts maintained a cautious outlook or
became slightl y more pessimistic; other s, how ever, became more o ptimistic, in large p art because
increased retur n-to-office policies w ere expected to boost office leasing in the Boston area.
Residential Real Estate
Across the F irst District, home sales dipped slightl y in ear ly spring (March or April, depending on the
state) comp ared with one year ear lier, marking the second consecuti ve repor t showing declining sales
activity. The w eakness w as concentrated in single-famil y home sales, which slow ed at least slightl y in
all repor ting mar kets (Connecticut fur nished no data) and tapered considerabl y in the Boston area. Con-
dominium sales perfor med better than single-famil y sales, increasing moderatel y from one year ear lier
in most mar kets but finishing moderatel y lower in Massachusetts. Contacts attributed w eak home
sales to declining consumer confidence, stock mar ket volatilit y, and buyer fatigue from limited in vento -
ries. How ever, contacts noted that in ventories, while still tight, increased substantiall y from the pre-
vious year , an outcome the y hoped would boost sales mo ving forw ard. Median sales prices increased
only slightl y from the pre vious year , a reflection of w eaker demand and stronger in ventories.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .bostonfed.org/in-the-
region.aspx .Federal Reser ve Bank of Boston 7
Federal Reser ve Bank of
New York
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Second District continued to decline modestl y amid widespread uncer-
tainty. Emplo yment held steady , though the demand for wor kers softened and w age growth slow ed
to a modest p ace. Selling price increases remained moderate, but input prices rose strongl y with
tariff-induced cost increases, especiall y for manufacturer s. Manufacturing acti vity continued to
decline modestl y. On balance, consumer spending pick ed up modestl y, with ongoing strong auto
sales. Housing mar kets pick ed up, though in ventor y remained e xceptionall y tight. Capital spending
plans declined, and the outlook w as quite pessimistic.
Labor Mar kets
On balance, emplo yment in the region continued to hold steady . Firms in business ser vices and
manufacturing saw ongoing declining headcounts, while modest increases w ere obser ved among
retail, infor mation, and leisure and hospitalit y establishments.
Demand for wor kers softened, and in some industries the suppl y of wor kers exceeded demand.
Contacts noted that attrition w as exceptionall y low, lessening the need to hire replacements. A
software fir m in upstate Ne w York repor ted that despite holding headcount steady , they were sub-
stantiall y reducing emplo yee hour s. Some businesses said the y were putting hiring on hold until
economic uncer tainty recedes. A communit y bank er repor ted recei ving large number s of o ver-
qualified applications for o pen positions. Some contacts in manufacturing and leisure and hospi-
tality expressed concer ns that immigration restrictions would mak e it difficult to hire the wor kers
they need. Still, there w ere no mentions of major la yoffs.
Wage growth slow ed to a modest p ace. F irms in the transpor tation, wholesale, and education and
health industries repor ted a considerable easing in w age growth, while per sonal ser vices and lei-
sure and hospitalit y firms said that w age growth remained more substantial. Contacts noted that
job switcher s were no longer recei ving outsized p ay increases.
8
Prices
The p ace of selling price increases eased some what but remained moderate. How ever, input
prices rose strongl y amid rising tariffs, with the price of manufacturing inputs surging to the
fastest p ace in year s. While some fir ms said the y were absorbing tariff-induced cost increases,
most repor ted that the y were passing through some or all of such cost increases to their cus-
tomer s by raising prices. An upstate wood mill noted that their abilit y to raise prices to recoup
higher costs w as constrained b y mar ket forces, significantl y reducing profit margins. A hea vy con-
struction equipment supplier said the y raised prices on goods unaffected b y tariffs to enjo y the
extra margin before tariffs increased their costs. A number of businesses repor ted the y were no
longer stocking goods whose higher prices w ere becoming infeasible. A florist repor ted adjusting
flower varieties based on rapidl y changing costs b y source countr y. Uncer tainty about the tariff out-
look continued to mak e it difficult for man y firms to set prices. Businesses continued to e xpect
substantial increases in input prices in the months ahead.
Consumer Spending
On balance, consumer spending continued to rise modestl y through much of the District. Auto
dealer s in upstate Ne w York repor ted that in ventories w ere depleted b y ongoing strong sales as
customer s tried to get ahead of potential tariffs. Used car sales w ere mostl y solid, though in ven-
tory availabilit y was sometimes limiting . Restaurant traffic pick ed up around Ne w York City,
especiall y in Brookl yn. How ever, ongoing reductions in visits from Canadian tourists contributed
to a decline in spending in the Nor th Countr y as w ell as a decline in sales at an upstate bre wery.
An investment advisor y firm said that clients had sto pped buying ser vices due to heightened
uncer tainty.
Manufacturing and Distribution
Manufacturing acti vity continued to decline modestl y, though ne w order s and shipments pick ed up
slightl y after declining during the last repor ting period. A manufacturer of store displa ys noted that
clients became flight y due to uncer tainty and tariffs, leading to postponed and cancelled order s. A
producer of retail cooking supplies said that the y were ramping up production at their factories out-
side of China to a void tariffs. T wo manufacturer s repor ted inquiries from clients looking to reshore
manufacturing to a void tariffs. Wholesale and distribution-related fir ms repor ted that acti vity was
steady . A shipping contact indicated that there w as a significant dro p in impor ts, with some
recovery during the later p art of the repor ting period. Deli very times w ere unchanged, and in vento -
ries increased slightl y. Suppl y availabilit y wor sened and is e xpected to wor sen fur ther in the
coming months. Manufacturer s and wholesale fir ms planned to reduce capital spending in the
months ahead.Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York 9
Services
Activity in the ser vice sector continued to decline moderatel y. There w ere strong declines in the lei-
sure and hospitalit y and infor mation sector s, and more moderate declines in business and per-
sonal ser vices. A regional hospital system noted that reductions in federal funding will disr upt
their business. Ser vice sector fir ms remained unusuall y pessimistic about the outlook, with plans
to reduce capital in vestment in the months ahead.
Tourism acti vity in Ne w York City held steady . During the busy college graduation season, hotel
occup ancy edged higher than last year , and room rates reached a historic high. While attendance
was slightl y weak at attractions, tick et sales at Broad way theatres remained solid. Still, tourism
industr y contacts anticip ated a decline in inter national visitor s in Ne w York City in the coming year .
Winer y contacts in the F inger Lak es region of upstate Ne w York repor ted a significant decline in
visits due to fe wer Canadian tourists.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Housing mar kets pick ed up across the District as the spring selling season neared its peak, with
rising demand amid e xceptionall y tight in ventor y. Bidding w ars were pre valent in upstate Ne w York
and in the suburbs around Ne w York City. Sales w ere up significantl y in the Hamptons since last
year, with the higher end of the mar ket dri ven b y cash sales from drawdow ns of financial assets.
Sales in Ne w York City also increased, with record high prices in some neighborhoods. A housing
market expert noted that economic uncer tainty had become a more significant issue than high
mortgage rates for potential buyer s, and there w ere multiple accounts of buyer s withdrawing from
bidding and then re-entering later .
Rents in the District continued to rise, with Ne w York City rents reaching historic highs. Rents con-
tinued to edge up in upstate Ne w York and nor thern New Jersey. Rental suppl y was tight, with
Manhattan and Brookl yn vacanc y rates at long-time lows.
Commercial real estate mar kets impro ved slightl y. Vacanc y rates in Manhattan ’s office mar ket con-
tinued to decline, and rents pick ed up in recent w eeks following a decline in the pre vious period.
A New York City commercial real estate contact noted that amid increasing demand, the suppl y of
higher qualit y office sp ace w as becoming scarce. Leasing acti vity was strong . Northern
New Jersey’s industrial mar ket leveled off after a period of w eakness ear lier in the year , although
industrial vacanc y rates remained ele vated. Constr uction acti vity continued to decline.10 The Beige Book
Banking and F inance
Activity in the broad finance sector continued to decline modestl y. Small-to -medium-sized banks
repor ted that loan demand w eakened across the board. One Ne w York bank er noted that tariff
uncer tainty had put deal acti vity on hold. Credit standards continued to ease and loan interest
spreads nar rowed. Deposit rates continued to decline. Delinquenc y rates impro ved, most notabl y
for commercial mor tgages.
Community P erspectives
Non-profits and other communit y-based organizations continued to face heightened financial pres-
sures. Increasing distress due to federal go vernment cuts to social programs ha ve extended into
healthcare, housing , and the ar ts and humanities. At the same time, non-profits and other com-
munit y organizations ha ve also faced higher costs of materials due to tariffs. While local go vern-
ments ha ve stepped in to pro vide suppor t and relief p ayments to subcontracting organizations
affected b y dela yed or cancelled federal funding , gaps remain.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .newyorkfed.org/
regional-econom y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York11
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Philadelphia
Summar y of Economic Activity
On balance, business acti vity in the Third District continued to decline modestl y. Emplo yment
declined slightl y despite an uptick in manufacturing jobs. W age inflation continued to ease, with
wages increasing slightl y this period, dow n from a modest increase last period. F irm price inflation
increased moderatel y, although contacts repor ted that tariffs ha ve not yet affected prices in most
sector s. Staffing and recr uitment acti vity was mixed. Manufacturer s repor ted strong demand for
and suppl y of labor , while fir ms in the nonmanufacturing sector repor ted declining emplo yment
due to attrition and la yoffs. Man y staffing contacts repor ted increased hesitanc y to hire among
firms, citing economic uncer tainty. Existing home sales tick ed up slightl y, and ne w home sales
declined moderatel y. On balance, e xpectations for economic growth o ver the ne xt six months w ere
modest. The inde x of e xpectations rose moderatel y for manufacturer s and slightl y for non-
manufacturer s.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment again declined slightl y this period. On a verage, nonmanufacturer s repor ted moderate
decreases in full-time emplo yment in our April and Ma y surveys. Nonmanufacturing fir ms also
repor ted a slight decline in p art-time jobs, dow n from a slight increase in March. O ver the same
period, manufacturing fir ms repor ted modest increases in emplo yment and a slight decline in the
average wor kweek. Meanwhile, the a verage wor kweek inde x for nonmanufacturer s increased
moderatel y.
Overall, a fe w contacts repor ted a general hesitanc y to hire, gi ven heightened economic uncer-
tainty. One contact who specializes in recr uiting for manufacturing sector jobs repor ted a strong
uptick in hiring in Ma y so far , after declines in the fir st quar ter, owing to increased business confi-
dence. Meanwhile, another contact with clients in the food industr y repor ted significant declines in
the number of jobs due to attrition and la yoffs as suppl y chain issues w eighed hea vily on this
industr y.
Wage inflation continued to ease. F irms across industries repor ted w ages gre w slightl y this period,
down from modest increases in the last period. Most contacts repor ted less upw ard w age pres-
12
sures o ver the period, and one contact e ven repor ted decreased w ages for entr y-level
unskilled jobs.
On a quar terly basis, e xpectations of the one-year-ahead change in compensation cost per wor ker
for all fir ms rose to a trimmed mean of 3. 7 percent in the second quar ter of 2025, up from
3.3 percent one quar ter ear lier. Compensation e xpectations w ere mixed among fir ms. Manufac-
turers’ expectations edged dow n from 3. 7 percent to 3.5 percent, and nonmanufacturer s’ expecta-
tions climbed from 2.8 percent to 3.9 percent.
Prices
Firm price inflation w as moderate this period, up from a modest p ace in March. Although contacts
in the auto and constr uction industries repor ted that the effects of tariffs ha ve not yet affected
selling prices, the y noted that these prices ha ve still been rising .
One retailer repor ted paying higher prices for coffee that is impor ted from Canada. How ever, the
contact’ s firm follow ed the lead of its competitor s and did not p ass on these price increases to its
already price-sensiti ve consumer s. This increased price sensiti vity appear s to be broadl y based.
Approximatel y half of the respondents to our monthl y surveys repor ted that their customer s have
become more price sensiti ve.
Based on our quar terly survey, firms repor ted increases in prices recei ved for their ow n goods and
services o ver the p ast year in the second quar ter of 2025 comp ared with the fir st quar ter, after
declines in the prior t wo quar ters. The trimmed mean for repor ted price changes rose to 2.8 per-
cent from 1.4 percent for all fir ms. Looking one year ahead, the increases that fir ms anticip ate in
the prices for their ow n goods also increased in the second quar ter of 2025. The e xpected rate of
growth increased from 3.1 percent to 3.5 percent for manufacturer s and from 2.2 percent to
2.7 percent for nonmanufacturer s.
When ask ed about anticip ated changes to their industries ’ costs o ver the ne xt six months and how
they expect their competitor s to respond, more than t wo-thirds of the sur veyed fir ms anticip ated
increased costs and e xpected their competitor s to increase prices in as little as t wo months.
Manufacturing
On average, cur rent manufacturing acti vity declined slightl y this period, after recording a modest
increase in March. The inde x for ne w order s fell moderatel y in April before increasing slightl y in
May. The shipments inde x declined moderatel y, remaining negati ve over the April to Ma y period.Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia 13
Expectations among manufacturer s for growth o ver the ne xt six months jumped shar ply in Ma y,
after t wo months of low readings. More than t wo-thirds of the fir ms expect increases in ne w
order s and in shipments o ver the ne xt six months.
Trade and Ser vices
On balance, fir ms across a broad spectr um of nonmanufacturing industries repor ted a moderate
decrease in acti vity. The sales/re venues inde x decreased modestl y. The inde x for ne w order s
declined moderatel y, essentiall y unchanged from March.
Retailer s (nonauto) repor ted a slight decline in sales o ver the cur rent period. One retailer stated
that customer s are o verly burdened b y higher prices and that in-store visits continue to be flat to
slightl y dow n despite the e xtensi ve use of promotions.
Auto dealer s repor ted a slight decline in auto sales, after strong increases in the last period.
Although tariffs ha ve yet to affect auto prices, prices ha ve still been trending up p artly owing to
lower inventories on hand.
Activity in the tourism sector rose slightl y, unchanged from the last period. Leisure tra vel rose
moderatel y despite minor dips in hotel bookings and air tra vel. T wo contacts repor ted a slight
increase in bookings along the Jer sey Shore but noted slight declines in bookings in Cape Ma y
Count y, owing to less demand from the usual Canadian tourists who frequent this area. Business
travel increased slightl y despite some slowdow n, which one contact attributed to low er govern-
ment e xpenditures and heightened uncer tainty among cor porate clients.
Expectations among the nonmanufacturer s for their ow n growth o ver the ne xt six months reco v-
ered from a moderate decrease in March and April to a slight increase in Ma y. Sentiment for
activity in the region o verall continued a moderate decline.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Existing home sales increased slightl y this period. The in ventor y of for-sale pro perties and the
number of closed transactions tick ed up in March and April, after a slow star t to the year . One con-
tact p artly attributed this uptick to seasonal effects at the star t of spring buying season. Ne w-
home builder s repor ted moderate declines in sales, traffic to offices, and signed contracts.
In nonresidential mar kets, leasing acti vity and transaction volumes recorded slight growth. One
contact noted an uptick in the logistics and w arehousing area, led b y smaller w arehouses.14 The Beige Book
Nonresidential constr uction acti vity recorded slight declines, unchanged from last period. Contacts
repor ted some acti vity in the eds and meds sp aces and continued public infrastr ucture projects.
One contact noted that some constr uction projects are being held up because of the inabilit y to
properly price material inputs due to uncer tainty with tariffs. Ne w constr uction in office sp aces
remains muted.
Credit Conditions
The volume of bank lending (e xcluding credit cards) increased slightl y during the period (not sea-
sonall y adjusted), after holding steady last period and increasing moderatel y one year ago.
District banks repor ted a slight decline in commercial real estate lending . Residential mor tgages
increased slightl y, and volumes of home equit y lines increased moderatel y. Consumer lending
(other than auto and credit cards) declined slightl y. Auto lending gre w modestl y, and commercial
and industrial lending held steady . Credit card volumes increased slightl y, up from modest
declines during the same period one year ago.
Banking contacts repor ted an uptick in acti vity, good credit qualit y, and the abilit y to attract
deposits. One contact repor ted that some clients ha ve put credit facilities on p ause and identified
the minor uptick in delinquencies in residential mor tgages as an area to monitor . Contacts in the
nonprofit sector continue to de velop contingenc y plans for alter native sources of funding to offset
budget shor tfalls due to funding requests taking longer or failing to be appro ved.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .philadelphiafed.org/
regional-econom y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia 15
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Cleveland
Summar y of Economic Activity
Contacts ’ repor ts continued to sug gest flat business acti vity in the F ourth District in recent w eeks,
and the y expected acti vity to remain flat in the months ahead. Retailer s noted a pullback in con-
sumer spending , and manufacturer s said that ongoing economic and trade polic y uncer tainty con-
tinued to dampen demand for their goods. Demand for professional and business ser vices
increased dri ven b y higher demand for consultations amid the shifting regulator y environment.
Overall, contacts repor ted slight increases in emplo yment le vels; how ever, mentions of staff reduc-
tions became more frequent. W age pressures remained moderate but eased in a couple of sec-
tors amid increased labor a vailabilit y. Contacts ’ repor ts sug gested that their nonlabor costs gre w
at a robust p ace, a situation which the y attributed to tariff imp acts, and that their selling prices
grew moderatel y.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels generall y increased slightl y in recent w eeks, according to contact repor ts. Pro -
fessional and business ser vices fir ms w ere more lik ely to repor t staff increases, while those in
manufacturing and freight w ere more lik ely to repor t staff reductions. Increased labor a vailabilit y
allowed some contacts across industries to more easil y hire entr y-level staff. Some contacts who
cited decreased demand repor ted initiating staff reduction effor ts through la yoffs, not replacing
staff, or cutting hour s. On balance, contacts e xpected emplo yment to increase slightl y in the
near ter m.
Contacts repor ted that w age pressures w ere moderate in recent w eeks. F irms across industries
continued to implement cost-of-li ving and merit-based w age increases for cur rent emplo yees. Pro -
fessional and business ser vices and banking contacts w ere more lik ely than contacts in other sec-
tors to repor t offering w age increases, a situation which man y attributed to sustained competition
for skilled wor kers. Firms hiring for entr y-level positions repor ted declining w age pressures amid
increased labor a vailabilit y. Some manufacturing and freight contacts noted that slowing sales led
them to offer minimal p ay increases.
16
Prices
On balance, contacts indicated that nonlabor input costs rose at a robust p ace in recent w eeks,
continuing an upw ard trend that began after a period of stabilit y in 2024. Contacts from multiple
sector s noted that tariffs w ere now increasing the costs of materials that the y impor t. Some con-
tacts also noted secondar y imp acts of tariff-related cost increases from domestic producer s. For
example, one manufacturer said that their US-based raw materials supplier s raised prices to
factor in the o vertime needed to meet increased domestic demand. Some food and hospitalit y
contacts repor ted that man y food costs remained ele vated, but one restaurateur repor ted relief
that eg g costs had declined. Contacts generall y expected costs to grow at a strong p ace in the
coming months.
Selling prices rose moderatel y on balance, and the share of fir ms repor ting that the y increased
their prices w as higher than in the pre vious repor ting period. Contacts across industries, p articu-
larly those in manufacturing and constr uction, said that the y raised prices to co ver costs related to
tariffs and to ele vated prices of materials such as steel. Auto dealer s generall y mentioned raising
prices of ne w and used vehicles, and one said that the y were offering less discounting because of
higher demand. O verall, professional and business ser vices fir ms continued to increase their
prices moderatel y; how ever, one law fir m said that clients had star ted pushing back.
Consumer Spending
In recent w eeks, consumer spending w as flat on balance. Man y auto dealer s repor ted an increase
in purchases ahead of planned tariffs, and one dealer ship e xpected tariff-related stick er shock to
hit customer demand star ting in ear ly June. Retailer s repor ted a general pullback in consumer dis-
cretionar y spending , although one retailer benefited from customer s who traded dow n from larger
discretionar y purchases to more modest ones. Contacts had difficult y forecasting demand for the
coming months because of uncer tain imp acts of trade polic y but e xpected demand to see a
modest slowdow n on net during this period.
Manufacturing
On balance, contact repor ts sug gested that demand for manufactured goods stabilized at a low
level after declining moderatel y in the prior repor ting period. Se veral manufacturer s continued to
repor t flat or softer order s because of ongoing economic and trade polic y uncer tainty. Some pro -
ducer s also noted softer order s from inter national customer s, and one contact added that their
firm had mo ved production of inter national order s out of the United States to a void retaliator y tar-
iffs. By contrast, a small number of manufacturer s repor ted higher order s from customer s that
were seeking domestic substitutions for impor ted products. Some of these customer s were
looking to a void impor t tariffs or stabilize their input prices, while other s were aiming to findFederal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland 17
domestic substitutions for impor ted products that w ere being held at por ts temporaril y during
trade negotiations. Contacts generall y expected demand to increase modestl y in the
coming months.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Repor ts from residential constr uction and real estate contacts sug gested moderate growth in
demand for homes in recent w eeks. One real estate brok er noted that prospecti ve buyer s had
accepted cur rent mor tgage rates as the nor m, making them less hesitant to mo ve forw ard with
purchases. On balance, residential constr uction and real estate contacts anticip ated continued
growth in demand in the coming months.
On the commercial constr uction side, contacts repor ted a slight decline in acti vity in recent w eeks.
Several builder s and de velopers said that uncer tainty around economic polic y was causing busi-
nesses to be more cautious with their constr uction in vestment decisions. Contacts e xpected flat
demand in the coming months, anticip ating that economic and polic y uncer tainty will continue to
weigh on acti vity.
Financial Ser vices
On balance, loan demand w as flat in recent w eeks. Se veral bank ers repor ted that economic uncer-
tainty surrounding trade polic y caused some clients to p ause or dela y projects and purchases.
Conversely, a couple of bank ers repor ted that demand for auto loans increased as clients pur-
chased vehicles ahead of planned tariffs to a void potential price increases. Looking ahead,
bankers expected loan demand to remain flat as economic uncer tainty persists. While most
bankers repor ted no change to their loan application standards, one bank er mentioned that their
institution began to consider tariff e xposure as a criterion for credit appro val.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
On balance, contacts repor ted robust demand for professional and business ser vices in recent
weeks, a situation which the y expected to continue o ver the coming months. F irms’ demand for
legal and consulting ser vices increased amid regulator y changes. By contrast, freight and trans-
portation contacts repor ted a modest decline in demand in recent w eeks and e xpected a robust
decline o ver the coming months. F ollowing the pre-tariff purchasing surge, a transpor tation contact
noted fe wer impor ts, and a logistics fir m noted increased demand for storage cap acity.18 The Beige Book
Community Conditions
Communit y contacts repor ted that uncer tainty surrounding federal funding , inflation, and tariffs
caused disr uptions in social ser vice and economic de velopment programs ser ving low- and
moderate-income households. One contact obser ved that funding cuts led some organizations to
pause hiring or pro vision of ne w ser vices, and other s noted a general reduction in essential wrap -
around ser vices. Another contact mentioned that funding cuts led to monies being pulled from
major brow nfield remediation projects, lea ving site cleanups and the consolidation of police, fire,
and 911 ser vices p artially complete. Uncer tainty over the imp acts of inflation and tariffs on
building costs led to the sto ppage of some housing de velopments, according to one organization.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .clevelandfed.org/en/
region/regional-anal ysis.Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland 19
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Richmond
Summar y of Economic Activity
The F ifth District econom y continued to e xpand at a mild rate in recent w eeks. Consumer spending
picked up slightl y in recent w eeks, but contacts w ere concer ned that declining sentiment could
mean slow er acti vity in the near future. Nonfinancial ser vices pro viders also saw a slight increase
in demand this c ycle. Meanwhile, demand for financial ser vices remained steady and commercial
and residential real estate acti vity was little changed. P ort activity increased as impor t activity
surged and w as attributed to frontloading shipments to get ahead of tariffs. Ex port activity, on the
other hand, contracted. Manufacturer s also repor ted a slight contraction this c ycle. Emplo yment
rose slightl y, overall, amid modest w age growth. Y ear-over-year price growth remained moderate.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment in the F ifth District increased slightl y in the most recent period. Contacts w ere mixed
on hiring plans based on business e xpectations. F or example, a Mar yland constr uction comp any
planned on increasing emplo yment due to a vailable wor k and a fast-casual restaurant decided to
move ahead with adding locations, thus increasing emplo yment. Con versely, a different fast-casual
restaurant located in the DC-region p aused all hiring due to local economic uncer tainty. A
Richmond-based business consultant planned on reducing headcount b y twenty percent due to
declining re venues and uncer tainty about future business. Contacts continued to repor t modest
wage increases and felt pressure to raise w ages fur ther due to e xpected increases in cost-of-li ving
for their wor kers.
Prices
Year-over-year price growth remained moderate, o verall, despite rising input costs for man y firms.
According to our recent sur veys, manufacturer s repor ted a slight increase of annual price growth
while non-manufacturer s repor ted a slight decrease, with both sector s seeing prices grow in the
2.5 to 3.0 percent range, on a verage. F irms across both sector s repor ted input costs rising at
faster rates, which man y businesses attributed to tariffs on materials the y impor t. Firms expected
prices to increase at faster rates o ver the ne xt six months.
20
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity in the F ifth District declined modestl y in the most recent repor ting period.
Multiple contacts repor ted adjusting their o perations due to increased uncer tainty. A multinational
machine manufacturer shut dow n a domestic product line that sold inter nationall y due to tariffs on
exports. A small food manufacturer laid off a full-time emplo yee due to uncer tainty about future
input costs. A fur niture manufacturer reduced the a verage wor k week to four da ys. A fe w firms
mentioned being sur prised b y an uptick in ne w order s. A cabinet mak er saw an increase in busi-
ness due to clients going ahead with office projects to get ahead of tariffs and interest
rate changes.
Ports and T ranspor tation
Overall cargo volumes in the F ifth District increased robustl y since the last repor ting period, with
some por ts seeing record impor t levels not seen since the F all 2023 post-CO VID surge. Contacts
attributed the increase in impor ts to pre-tariff frontloading of goods from East Asian countries,
with notable upticks in automobiles and auto p arts. Ex port volumes decreased moderatel y, which
was attributed to ne w tariffs imposed b y other countries that shifted demand for U.S. agricultural
products lik e timber , grain, and so ybeans. Contacts repor ted that demand for bonded w arehouse
space has gone “through the roof ” across the region as shipper s look for sp ace to hold cargo
near por ts and w ait out changes in tariffs. After the initial tariff escalation, maritime bookings
decreased b y half with flattening freight rates and record blank vessel cap acity space. P ort con-
tacts e xpected impor t volumes to slow dow n later this year due to the recent frontloading of ship -
ments. Despite a surge in impor t volumes, tr ucking demand remained w eak as those impor ts
were largel y being w arehoused close to por ts. One air port began e xpansion of w arehousing sp ace
to accommodate the increased demand for cargo staging sp ace.
Retail, Travel, and T ourism
Consumer spending increased slightl y in recent w eeks. Most retailer s repor ted steady to
increasing sales, o verall, but noted a decline in big tick et purchases. Se veral contacts mentioned
that consumer s continued to be price sensiti ve and w ere opting for low er priced alter natives. Simi-
larly, hospitalit y contacts saw an o verall increase in acti vity and shifts in consumer preferences
towards budget hotels and quick ser vice restaurants. At the same time, some luxur y retailer s,
hotels, and e xperience pro viders repor ted strong sales. Despite recent increases in acti vity, man y
contacts e xpected sales to slow in the coming months and pointed to declining consumer senti-
ment, potentiall y higher prices, and heightened uncer tainty as potential head winds.Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond 21
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity flattened in recent w eeks. Home in ventor y levels continued to increase
while buyer traffic decreased slightl y. Homebuilder s in the district continued to echo their fr ustration
with the e xpense that regulator y “red tape” adds to costs and the uncer tainty that tariffs ha ve on future
prices for raw materials and home appliances. A Mar yland builder stated the y have star ted to see pur-
chase agreement cancellations on ne w homes as man y of their customer s work directl y or indirectl y for
the federal go vernment. Buyer s continue to qualify for loans across the district. A V irginia agent men-
tioned the y have 60 to 70 peo ple prequalified that are w aiting to see if mor tgage rates dro p.
Commercial real estate flattened o verall as comp anies hesitated to mak e new investments. Industrial
space took the big gest hit as businesses tried to assess o perating sp ace, tariffs, or whether to con-
tinue their U.S. presence. A South Carolina agent said that “Industrial deals ha ve dro pped with pens in
hand, comp anies freeze because the y can’t figure out the r ules of this tariff game. ” Across the district,
office sp ace continued to see vacanc y rates decrease as emplo yees retur n to in per son wor k. Upfits in
office sp ace are seeing a slight uptick with these retur ns. A V irginia agent mentioned go vernment con-
tractor s have an impetus to upfit their sp ace for securit y reasons.
Banking and F inance
Financial institutions continued to repor t steady demand for most loan t ypes, and modest increases in
demand for commercial real estate loans. One respondent noted that bor rowers did not see cur rent
market disr uptions as per manent, so the y were continuing to mo ve forw ard, albeit cautiousl y. Consumer
real estate loan demand increases w ere described as seasonal in nature but still at historicall y low
levels. Home equit y loan demand continued to be steady . Delinquenc y rates continued to see modest
increases, but o verall rates are still at traditionall y low le vels. Deposit le vels continued to remain stable
with an easing of competition bet ween institutions. 
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Nonfinancial ser vice pro viders repor ted a slight increase in demand for their ser vices, but the y were
unsure how long this demand would last. A mar keting consulting fir m noted that the y have seen an
increase in the number of inquiries the y have recei ved from job seek ers, while those ser ving specialized
industries such as mining w ere still finding it hard to fill positions. A number of consulting fir ms sur-
veyed noted that the y would either be reducing staff or at a minimum maintaining their cur rent wor k-
force until both their clients and the y can gain more cer tainty with the o verall econom y.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .richmondfed.org/research/
data_anal ysis.22 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Atlanta
Summar y of Economic Activity
The Sixth District econom y grew slightl y from mid-April through Ma y. Labor mar kets remained
steady , but some fir ms cited caution around hiring . Wage pressures eased. Prices increased at a
moderate p ace. F irms that repor ted paying more for inputs because of tariffs also look ed for w ays
to cut costs to help offset what the y could not p ass through to customer s. Nonprofits repor ted
that cuts to federal funding w ere constraining organizations ’ abilities to pro vide ser vices. Con-
sumer spending w as flat, and tra vel and tourism acti vity declined modestl y. Home sales gre w
slightl y, attributed to stabilizing mor tgage interest rates. Commercial real estate conditions w ere
steady . Demand for transpor tation ser vices increased modestl y. Loan growth and deposits slow ed
at District financial institutions. The energ y sector saw moderate growth.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels remained flat o ver the repor ting period. Man y firms held headcounts steady
and e xpected relati vely stable staffing le vels in the coming months. How ever, some contacts
repor ted caution around hiring gi ven economic uncer tainty, and some fir ms de veloped contingenc y
plans, including wor kforce reductions through la yoffs, in the e vent conditions do not impro ve. Most
firms repor ted that labor w as readil y available, and tur nover was dow n. Hospitals and healthcare
providers continued to hire robustl y. A fe w firms shared concer ns about labor suppl y constraints
resulting from tightening immigration polic y, particular ly in agriculture, constr uction, hospitalit y,
and manufacturing; how ever, this did not appear to be restricting the cur rent a vailabilit y of labor in
a significant w ay.
Firms repor ted less w age pressure amid decreased tur nover and increased labor a vailabilit y. Wage
growth w as generall y lower than a year ago, and man y firms held w ages flat or dela yed w age
increases.
Prices
Prices rose moderatel y since the pre vious repor t. Inflationar y concer ns related to trade polic y were
repor ted by firms across sector s, geographies, and fir m sizes. More businesses began to raise
prices, often through fle xible measures such as tariff surcharges. While demand w as repor tedly
23
softening , some fir ms increased prices, sacrificing volume to co ver added costs. Man y contacts
cited a multi-pronged approach to managing tariffs, including pushing costs back to supplier s,
reconfiguring suppl y chains, absorbing costs in margins, and p assing costs through to customer s.
Community P erspectives
A broad range of nonprofit and philanthro pic contacts said that cur rent and potential federal
funding cuts threatened the abilit y of social ser vice pro viders to meet communit y needs or con-
tinue o perations, as other funding sources are generall y insufficient to replace federal dollar s.
Contacts in the sector repor ted taking action to shore up their financial positions, including reduc-
tions in staff and building reser ves.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending w as little changed since the pre vious repor t. Some retailer s noted a modest
spike in durables sales, p articular ly big-tick et items such as autos, as consumer s rushed to front
run tariffs. O verall, how ever, retailer s noted some e vidence of softening consumer demand that is
expected to dampen future sales. Some retailer s noted the y were still wor king through pre viousl y
acquired in ventories and thus had not raised prices. How ever, they belie ve that consumer price
sensiti vity will remain high and e xpect a dro p in sales when tariff-related price increases
are enacted.
Travel and tourism acti vity, including hotel bookings, declined modestl y. Room rates w ere flat or
rose slightl y, and some hotels offered increased incenti ves such as an additional night free. Con-
tacts repor ted a slowing of inter national tra velers to the U.S., and while pre viousl y concentrated
among Canadian visitor s, the slowdow n recentl y expanded to visitor s from Asia and Euro pe.
Domestic leisure tra vel was flat. Declining consumer confidence slow ed leisure tra vel for low er
income consumer s but also caused more higher-income Americans to vacation in the U.S. instead
of abroad. Business tra vel was dow n slightl y as go vernment agencies and contractor s restricted
travel. Group tra vel dipped in recent w eeks but seemed to be reco vering based on forw ard-looking
bookings.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Home sales increased slightl y over the repor ting period, boosted b y the stabilization of mor tgage
rates. Home prices remained steady , though in some geographies, increased in ventor y created a
drag on prices. Existing home in ventor y levels rose shar ply in most areas of the District, but
stronger demand o ver the p ast month absorbed much of that growth. Demand for ne w homes
remained below seasonal nor ms, and homebuilder s noted the need for increased incenti ves, p ar-24 The Beige Book
ticular ly for fir st-time home buyer s. Some builder s repor ted pulling back on lot purchases in antici-
pation of fur ther declines in demand.
Commercial real estate acti vity was stable, on balance. V acanc y rates in office sp ace fell slightl y
and sales prices rose, but the strain on the sector continued, resulting in rising delinquencies.
Industrial cap acity continued to increase, dri ving up vacancies in a sector already e xperiencing
elevated uncer tainty due to tariff imp acts. Multifamil y conditions remained largel y unchanged, but
new developments slow ed moderatel y, attributed to rising constr uction costs, e ven as small
pockets of growth in demand and of rising rents emerged throughout the District.
Transpor tation
Demand for transpor tation ser vices rose modestl y. Railroads repor ted health y year-o ver-year
increases in inter modal freight volumes and total traffic. Some logistics contacts indicated that
warehouses remained relati vely full as fir ms had pulled ahead in ventories in the fir st quar ter; how-
ever, volumes w ere described as d windling . District por ts continued to see robust container traffic.
Some tr ucking fir ms noted that volumes w ere below nor mal seasonalit y over the repor ting period.
Contacts e xpressed concer ns about a dear th of cap acity over the shor t term in rail, w arehousing ,
trucking , on ships and at por ts, as a surge in impor ts is e xpected amid the p ause on higher tariffs
on Chinese goods.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity declined moderatel y. Several fir ms noted a contraction in production, ne w
order s, backlogs of wor k, and finished goods in ventor y following a robust fir st quar ter during which
consumer s and fir ms tried to get ahead of tariff-related price increases. According to the Atlanta
Fed’s April Business Inflation Ex pectations Manufacturing Sector Repor t, firms repor ted that
unit sales le vels w ere significantl y lower than nor mal. The manufacturing outlook for the ne xt
12 months w as mostl y negati ve, and contacts who w ere concer ned about a potential recession in
the U.S. o verwhelmingl y listed trade polic y as their to p concer n, along with inflation, consumer
demand, geo political risks, interest rates, and the equit y mar kets.
Banking and F inance
Loan balances at District financial institutions decreased across all lending categories, with
constr uction/land de velopment and mor tgages/home equit y lines e xperiencing the largest
declines. Communit y banks noted tighter standards for commercial lending , particular ly in indus-
tries affected b y tariffs. Both loan originations and deposits slow ed moderatel y, leaving loan-to -
deposit ratios unchanged. Delinquencies and loan loss allow ances tick ed up, but contacts
repor ted continued strength in the credit qualit y of loan applicants and customer s.Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta 25
Energ y
Energ y industr y contacts repor ted moderate growth across most sector s. Liquefied natural gas
production, e xports, and o verall global demand remained an area of strength. While domestic
demand for U.S. cr ude oil w as steady , global demand softened. Utilit y comp anies described robust
residential pow er demand, modest growth in commercial, and some slowing in industrial. Although
utility sector contacts repor ted growth o pportunities link ed to data center de velopment, some
noted a slight deceleration in acti vity, attributed to concer ns over potential tariffs increasing the
cost of pow er infrastr ucture and impeding in vestment. Offshore wind contacts repor ted a signifi-
cant decline in demand, resulting in dow nsizing .
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .atlantafed.org/
econom y-matter s/regional-economics .26 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Chicago
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Se venth District increased slightl y over the repor ting period, though con-
tacts e xpected a slight decline in acti vity over the ne xt year . Consumer spending and emplo yment
increased modestl y; both business spending and constr uction and real estate acti vity were flat;
manufacturing declined slightl y; and nonbusiness contacts saw a slight decline in acti vity. Prices
and w ages rose modestl y, and financial conditions loosened slightl y. Prospects for 2025 far m
income increased some.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment rose modestl y over the repor ting period, and contacts e xpected a similar p ace of
growth o ver the ne xt 12 months. Some contacts in constr uction and manufacturing continued to
face tight labor mar ket conditions, with se veral indicating that the y were ha ving difficult y finding
skilled wor kers and w ere using higher w ages to attract ne w emplo yees. Other contacts across
industries noted either stable or easing hiring conditions. A staffing agenc y repor ted that man y
businesses had p aused hiring due to economic uncer tainty. Several contacts noted low attrition,
and a fur niture manufacturer repor ted attrition w as at a record low . In addition, a restaurant ow ner
indicated that job applications had increased, and a contact in hea vy truck manufacturing noted
that all OEMs had announced la yoffs in the coming months. W ages and benefits costs w ere up
modestl y overall.
Prices
Prices rose modestl y since the last repor t, and contacts e xpected a faster p ace of growth o ver the
next 12 months. Producer prices increased modestl y. Nonlabor input costs rose moderatel y, with
repor ts of higher prices for equipment. Se veral manufacturer s noted increased costs for raw mate-
rials including steel and electrical components lik e semiconductor s. Consumer prices rose mod-
estly overall. One retail industr y anal yst repor ted that price increases from higher tariffs w ere
showing up in prices for some consumer goods lik e appliances and tools.
27
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending increased modestl y over the repor ting period. Nonauto retail sales w ere up
moderatel y. Contacts noted pull-forw ard spending for big tick et items such as computer s, elec-
tronics, and appliances. Consumer staples, such as groceries, posted solid gains. Sales in the
lawn and garden and landscaping categories w ere health y. How ever, leisure and hospitalit y
spending continued to be soft. A museum contact indicated that admissions w ere dow n, though
spending b y visitor s was strong . Air tra vel declined, but hotel demand pick ed up. Light vehicle
sales remained robust as consumer s look ed to get ahead of potential tariff actions. V ehicle p arts
and ser vice acti vity strengthened slightl y.
Business Spending
Business spending w as flat in April and ear ly May. Capital e xpenditures increased slightl y from a
low le vel, and e xpectations for spending o ver the coming year w ere also up slightl y. Demand for
truck transpor tation declined. Retail contacts said in ventories remained stable, though the y
expressed concer n about recei ving in ventor y in a timel y fashion because there w as a surge in
order s for Chinese impor ts after tariffs w ere cut. Auto in ventories declined slightl y from ele vated
levels. One consultant for the hea vy truck manufacturing industr y noted record-high in ventories.
Manufacturing in ventories w ere comfor table o verall. Repor ts of materials shor tages remained low ,
though some manufacturer s had concer ns about the potential for shor tages of impor ted goods
given rising tariffs.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction and real estate acti vity was unchanged on balance o ver the repor ting period. Resi-
dential constr uction w as flat. Higher tariffs led builder s to e xpect costs to increase significantl y in
the coming months for ne w home constr uction and remodeling projects. Residential real estate
activity was also unchanged. Prices increased slightl y and rents rose modestl y. Nonresidential con-
struction w as up slightl y, with contacts highlighting growth in demand for data center s and medical
offices. Commercial real estate acti vity was unchanged, though demand for industrial sp ace
remained robust. Contacts noted that demand for retail sp ace w as increasingl y dependent on
location. Prices decreased slightl y. Contacts said that the gap bet ween buyer and seller pro perty
valuations w as often significant; for instance, some hospitalit y property owners postponed selling
because the y couldn ’t find buyer s willing to p ay what the y think the pro perty is wor th. Rents and
vacanc y rates w ere unchanged.28 The Beige Book
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity declined slightl y over the repor ting period. Demand for chemicals w as
unchanged o verall, though one contact noted growing demand from the medical de vice industr y.
Steel order s increased despite softer demand from the hea vy machiner y industr y. Demand for fab-
ricated metals manufacturing w as flat, with increases in demand from the aerosp ace industr y off-
setting decreases in demand from the automoti ve industr y. Machiner y sales fell modestl y, led b y
continued declines in demand from the automoti ve industr y. Auto production fell moderatel y. A
contact in the hea vy truck manufacturing industr y noted that order s for medium- and hea vy-dut y
trucks fell shar ply.
Banking and F inance
Financial conditions loosened slightl y in April and ear ly May. Bond values rose slightl y and equit y
values increased shar ply over the repor ting period. V olatilit y fell significantl y. Business loan
demand w as up slightl y, with one contact noting greater demand for multifamil y constr uction
loans. Se veral contacts repor ted a fur ther slowdow n in acquisition financing . One banking contact
noted an increase in credit utilization b y businesses and attributed it to a pull-forw ard of in ventor y
purchasing . Business loan qualit y decreased slightl y, and one contact highlighted defaults on
loans for office sp ace. Business loan rates and ter ms w ere unchanged. In the consumer sector ,
loan demand, qualit y, and ter ms w ere flat. Consumer loan rates decreased slightl y.
Agriculture
Expectations for 2025 far m income increased slightl y on balance o ver the repor ting period despite
ongoing uncer tainty about agricultural trade. Income e xpectations rose for li vestock o perations but
were flat for cro p producer s. That said, there w ere repor ts of large cro p and hog o perator s scaling
back or ceasing o perations. Cor n and so ybean planting proceeded quickl y in much of the District,
though the souther n por tions faced e xcessi ve precipitation which could lead to fields needing to
be planted after the window for o ptimal yield. Cor n prices decreased while so ybean prices
increased. Hog , cattle, and dair y prices rose, and eg g prices declined. Contacts repor ted concer ns
about the loss of access to agricultural financing for hea vily leveraged o perator s or those unable
to pay off 2024 loans. There w ere limited sales of ne w farm machiner y given high prices.
Community Conditions
Communit y, nonprofit, and other nonbusiness contacts repor ted a continued decline in economic
activity and noted the ongoing negati ve imp act of federal polic y uncer tainty on acti vities and plan-
ning. State go vernment contacts saw increases in sales tax re venues but declines in p ayroll with-
holding . One contact said that while initial unemplo yment claims had increased in their state, theFederal Reser ve Bank of Chicago 29
length of unemplo yment spells had declined. Small business inter mediaries repor ted that their cli-
ents w ere wor king to under stand the imp act of tariffs on their business and pricing models.
Leader s of nonprofit and social ser vice organizations noted increased competition for pri vate and
philanthro pic dollar s due to federal funding cuts and fe wer federal funding o pportunities. Organiza-
tions ser ving low-income communities repor ted concer n about the imp act of reduced federal sup -
port, in p articular on the a vailabilit y of childcare.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://chicagofed.org/cfsec .30 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
St. Louis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Emplo yment le vels w ere
unchanged, and w age growth has been modest. Prices continued to increase moderatel y, and
most contacts e xpecting higher nonlabor costs due to tariffs indicated the y would p ass the costs
along to customer s. Contacts e xpressed a high degree of uncer tainty and concer ns that tariffs
would result in fur ther cost increases. Hea vy rains and stor ms ha ve resulted in planting and con-
struction dela ys and low er traffic to some recreational businesses. T ornados in St. Louis ha ve
resulted in casualties, pow er shor tages for se veral da ys, and the destr uction of man y properties.
The outlook remains slightl y pessimistic, with signs of continued deterioration.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Most contacts indicated their
staffing plans had not changed since the star t of the year . A manufacturer in Indiana repor ted
that, despite slow er business, the y were still hiring; how ever, hour s wor ked decreased and o ver-
time hour s were no longer needed. Another manufacturer repor ted the y were expecting emplo y-
ment le vels to remain constant; how ever, they were reducing their temporar y wor kers in fa vor of
more full-time wor kers. A constr uction comp any repor ted that, while the y were not planning an y
staffing cuts soon, the y were making contingenc y plans in case business conditions wor sened.
Wage growth has been modest, and most contacts ha ve not e xpressed concer ns about w age pres-
sures. A contact from Ar kansas repor ted that despite cost increases the y would not be raising
wages until the end of the year . A recreational business in Missouri repor ted that w ages had
increased due to increases in the minimum w age.
Prices
Prices ha ve increased moderatel y since our pre vious repor t; how ever, businesses e xpect costs to
increase due to tariffs and are looking for w ays to reduce the imp act on their profits. Most con-
tacts e xpecting nonlabor costs to increase ne xt quar ter repor ted that the y would p ass along the
costs to customer s within three months. A manufacturer repor ted the y had modified their receipts
to displa y a 7 percent increase in cost due to tariffs, but that this line could easil y be remo ved if
31
tariffs w ere no longer in place. A hotel ow ner repor ted that vendor s have warned of cost increases
due to tariffs but ha ve not yet published ne w prices. A professional ser vices fir m repor ted that
they were facing cost increases; how ever, there w as low er consumer acceptance of increased
prices. A food manufacturer in K entuck y repor ted that their costs had increased due to a vian flu,
as eg gs and chick en were components of their food mix.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending repor ts were mixed. Recreation and hospitalit y contacts repor ted, on net, a
slight increase in acti vity. A restaurant ow ner in Louisville repor ted that the y were expecting sales
to continue to grow and w ere spending on capital impro vements in their restaurants. Another res-
taurant ow ner in K entuck y noted that customer s were coming to dinner , but the y were skipping the
appetizer and desser t. Retail sales ha ve slightl y declined, especiall y for discretionar y items. Se v-
eral retailer s repor ted that sales ha ve been below e xpectations, with customer s being cautious
with their spending . One retailer repor ted that food and consumable sales remain stable, while
general merchandise sales ha ve been w eak, resulting in higher in ventories of these items. Auto
dealer s repor ted no change in sales. A Missouri dealer repor ted that higher-end vehicle sales w ere
significantl y lower and buyer s were paying cash for those vehicles instead of financing .
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity has slightl y decreased since our pre vious repor t. Manufacturer s across the
District repor ted that ne w order s had slightl y decreased. One contact repor ted this had led to an
overstocking of in ventories. Contacts also repor ted a decrease in production and cap acity utiliza-
tion. How ever, a midsize food manufacturer repor ted that, while 30 percent of their o verall produc-
tion is e xported to China, the y had not yet seen an y changes in ordering beha vior. Some manufac-
turers are creating plans to regionalize their suppl y chains—that is, to source and produce within
a specific geographic area, rather than rel ying on a global net work.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Activity in the nonfinancial ser vices sector has been mixed. T ranspor tation and logistics contacts
repor ted a slight increase in acti vity, particular ly in inter national acti vity, while domestic acti vity
has slow ed slightl y. A logistics contact from St. Louis repor ted that recent increased demand
could be attributed to stockpiling to a void higher tariffs in the future. Acti vity in the professional
services sector has been mixed. An architecture business repor ted a slight w eakening in their
workload and a decrease in the demand for ne w projects. Similar ly, another professional ser vices
contact in Memphis repor ted that their sales pipeline has diminished, which would negati vely
impact perfor mance in the second half of the year . In contrast, an Ar kansas fir m repor ted their
sales had e xceeded e xpectations, as a major customer has placed se veral large order s.32 The Beige Book
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Acti ve listings
have increased relati ve to a year ago, but sales continue to fall behind prior year s. Contacts
repor ted that low in ventor y levels, uncer tainty, and interest rates w ere the main factor s
impacting sales.
Commercial real estate acti vity has been mixed. A contractor repor ted that customer s were tr ying
to complete their projects sooner out of fear of higher costs, while other s repor ted that ne w proj-
ects w ere not star ting due to uncer tainty and high costs. Contacts in St. Louis and Louisville
repor ted that w eather conditions had dela yed or slow ed constr uction and that projects dependent
on go vernment funding w ere also p aused, with de velopers uncer tain whether the y would continue
receiving funding to complete the projects.
Banking and F inance
Banking acti vity has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Loan demand has slightl y
increased, but b y less than w as expected as of the pre vious quar ter. A bank er from Memphis
repor ted that loan demand has been negati vely affected b y uncer tainty, as it is ver y difficult to
price goods and contracts. Bank ers in Ar kansas repor ted that the y had seen an increase in com-
mercial real estate and auto loan demand. Bank ers across the District repor ted that, despite
delinquenc y rates being relati vely low, they expect consumer and commercial delinquencies to
increase in upcoming months due to continued stress for consumer s and e xpectations of a
weaker econom y.
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Agriculture conditions ha ve remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Wet soil conditions
continue to dela y planting in some areas. Despite these dela ys, overall acres planted remain con-
sistent with prior year s. Contacts noted that continued dela ys accessing fields will result in a shift
in planting aw ay from cor n and tow ard so ybeans. Contacts e xpressed uncer tainty over the cost
and a vailabilit y of feed ingredients and chemicals sourced outside the U.S. Demand for credit
remains ele vated; how ever, obtaining loans at affordable rates remains a to p concer n. A cotton
industr y contact e xpects demand from retailer s will w eaken over the ne xt few months.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .stlouisfed.org/
research/regional-econom y.Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis 33
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Minneapolis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Ninth District economic acti vity decreased slightl y since the pre vious repor t. Emplo yment w as flat
and w ages gre w moderatel y. Prices increased moderatel y overall, with greater pressure on inputs.
Activity increased in manufacturing , and vehicle sales w ere up slightl y. Consumer spending fell
modestl y. Constr uction fell slightl y, while residential real estate acti vity decreased modestl y and
commercial real estate w as flat. Agricultural conditions w ere flat at w eak le vels. Acti vity among
minorit y- and women-ow ned business enter prises w as mostl y unchanged.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as flat since the last repor t. Sur veys found that hiring sentiment and job o penings
rebounded modestl y with w armer w eather . How ever, emplo yers said hiring w as most often related
to filling tur nover; new openings for p art-time and seasonal jobs also outp aced full-time positions.
Hiring among constr uction fir ms—including for ne w, full-time positions—remained health y despite
repor ted softness in sectoral acti vity. How ever, a staffing fir m with multiple District locations
repor ted a 30 percent decline in job order s comp ared with the same period last year . A large
majorit y of nonprofit contacts w ere either not hiring or hiring onl y to fill tur nover due to re venue
declines. Numerous emplo yers noted increased uncer tainty about future labor needs, and some
were prep aring contingenc y plans for potential la yoffs. Emplo yers widel y repor ted that labor a vail-
ability continued to impro ve. A Wisconsin contact repor ted ver y good attendance at a recent job
fair, adding that “there w ere fe wer [candidates] w earing p ajamas. ”
Wages gre w moderatel y. Median w ages across a large set of District businesses gre w just o ver
3 percent year o ver year . Tourism and accommodations emplo yers repor ted some what stronger
wage increases, and nonprofits repor ted w eaker wage increases. Multiple constr uction contacts
noted recent union w age increases o ver 4 percent; but in response to slow constr uction acti vity,
one remodeling fir m repor ted that it w as discounting general labor costs in e xchange for book ed
projects.
34
Prices
Prices increased moderatel y overall, at about the same rate of increase as the pre vious repor t,
while input price pressures intensified. More than a third of District fir ms increased the prices the y
charged to customer s in April from a month ear lier, according to a monthl y survey, while more than
half repor ted increased input prices. In their month-ahead outlooks, more than half of fir ms sur-
veyed anticip ated increasing their prices. Some manufacturing contacts repor ted the y were adding
surcharges to offset steel and aluminum tariffs. One contact repor ted adding a surcharge line to
invoices but not using it yet. Contacts in other sector s were not putting e xplicit tariff surcharges in
place, but some w ere adjusting o verall prices or planning to do so in the future. Retail fuel prices
in District states w ere flat o verall since the last repor t.
Worker Experience
Results from a sur vey of wor kforce de velopment specialists in Minnesota show ed that on a verage
it was taking longer for job seek ers to be placed into jobs; near ly half said it w as taking more than
three months. A sur vey participant shared that job seek ers were also encountering less remote
work and schedule fle xibilit y from emplo yers. A contact in central Minnesota noted that hiring of
immigrants and refugees has slow ed. A labor contact in Montana shared that o pportunities for
public emplo yees ha ve declined, and the contact e xpected competition for a vailable jobs to
intensify .
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending fell modestl y. Retail contacts generall y repor ted slow er business of late. Se v-
eral restaurants noted that acti vity was concentrated on w eekends and less busy during the w eek;
patrons w ere also spending less. T ourism and hospitalit y firms in Minnesota repor ted that recent
customer traffic, re venue, and profits w ere all low er comp ared with a year ago. Some impro vement
was expected o ver the coming summer months, but o verall sentiment w as still slightl y pessi-
mistic. Contacts repor ted—and border-crossing data confir med—that Canadian tra velers to the
District continued to decline. A tourism contact in nor thwester n Montana repor ted a 10 to
20 percent decline in Canadian visitor s. Hotel occup ancy and re venue per a verage room w ere
lower across District states in April comp ared with a year ago. V ehicle sales w ere slightl y higher
overall, but ne w-vehicle sales fell slightl y, according to a large dealer ship. Sales of recreational
and pow ersport vehicles w ere low er.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction acti vity edged slightl y lower since the last repor t. In a recent sur vey, the share of
respondents who repor ted decreases in acti vity was higher than those who repor ted increases. AFederal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis 35
large share e xpected acti vity to decline or remain unchanged at low le vels in upcoming months.
Increased competition for projects, per vasive high costs, and labor constraints w ere anticip ated to
limit acti vity. For more than half of respondents, e xpectations tur ned pessimistic as uncer tainty
from tariffs crept up. “No one w ants to spend mone y when the future is so uncer tain,” shared a
northern Minnesota fir m, adding that price uncer tainty was “pushing projects out of budget” and
complicating bidding . Recent per mits issued w ere flat for residential projects and higher for com-
mercial projects with some variation across mar kets.
Commercial real estate w as flat o verall. Office vacanc y rates remained high; leasing w as repor t-
edly picking up o verall while larger tenants w ere dow nsizing their sp ace needs. Industrial and retail
vacanc y rates remained low thanks to a dear th of ne w development, and multifamil y vacanc y was
expected to impro ve as ne w constr uction star ts have fallen significantl y. Residential real estate
was low er. Despite rising in ventories in man y mar kets, closed sales w ere widel y lower in April com-
pared with a year ago.
Manufacturing
District manufacturing acti vity increased moderatel y since the pre vious repor t. Manufacturing
survey respondents repor ted a net increase in order s in April from the month prior , but sentiment
was notabl y mixed, as a large share saw their order s decrease. The month-ahead outlook for
order s in Ma y was also net positi ve. An inde x of regional manufacturing conditions indicated
activity increased in Minnesota, Nor th Dak ota, and South Dak ota in April from the pre vious month.
Some contacts repor ted an increase in interest from customer s in reshoring p arts production.
Other repor ts indicated that customer s were canceling large order s while the y wait to see if tariffs
decrease to a void p aying a surcharge.
Agriculture Energ y and Natural Resources
District agricultural conditions remained w eak o verall, but planting season w as going w ell.
According to the most recent Ag Credit Sur vey, 80 percent of respondents repor ted that far m
incomes decreased in the fir st quar ter from a year ear lier, as low commodit y prices continued to
weigh on far m operations. How ever, corn, soybean, and spring wheat planting progress and emer-
gence in District states as of mid-Ma y were w ell ahead of a verage. P ersistent drought conditions
were causing concer n among contacts, p articular ly in the w ester n por tion of the District. Oil and
gas e xploration acti vity and production decreased slightl y since the pre vious repor t.
Minority- and W omen-Owned Business Enter prises
Activity among minorit y- and women-ow ned business enter prises (MWBE) w as mostl y unchanged in
recent w eeks. A shrinking abilit y to p ass higher costs on to consumer s continued to put dow nward36 The Beige Book
pressure on profit margins. A Minnesota retailer obser ved that while consumer traffic w as up,
average spending w as dow n. The dow nward trend in head count and job o penings dipped fur ther
among MWBEs. A Wisconsin manufacturer shared that the number of applicants per job o pening
was higher than in recent year s. In Minnesota, a professional ser vices fir m was seeing “great can-
didates [appl y, but w e] don ’t have the cashflow to hire. ” Instead, the y were wor king to implement
artificial intelligence to reduce staff and “gain efficiencies. ”
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .minneapolisfed.org/
region-and-communit y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis 37
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Kansas City
Summar y of Economic Activity
Overall acti vity in the T enth District declined moderatel y in recent w eeks across se veral sector s of
the regional econom y. Consumer spending fell, p articular ly on retail and other discretionar y items.
Contacts indicated the y expected consumer demand will fur ther w eaken in coming months but
expressed high le vels of uncer tainty about the outlook for household spending . Businesses in
both consumer and industrial sector s described a cautious approach to capital e xpenditures,
looking onl y to pur sue “no regret” in vestments that ha ve shor ter payback periods, are smaller in
scale, and are less sensiti ve to polic y developments. The near-ter m outlook for capital spending
remained fa vorable but contacts e xpressed greater uncer tainty about in vestment acti vity for the
coming year s. Businesses indicated the y similar ly took a cautious approach to staffing le vels,
making fe w changes to emplo yment le vels, albeit with reduced hour s and a pullback from contac-
tors. Ne w home building acti vity slow ed, and sales of e xisting homes fell. Low er demand from
home buyer s led to an increase in the housing in ventor y available for sale and slight reductions in
home prices in se veral p arts of the District.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels w ere unchanged across most sector s. How ever, emplo yers repor ted reducing
overtime hour s and indicated plans to scale back emplo yment of contractor s and temporar y
workers. Businesses indicated the y were taking a cautious approach to staffing le vels that priori-
tized fle xibilit y, suggesting that future changes to wor kforce size or hour s will lik ely be incremental.
A slim majorit y of contacts indicated their hiring plans ha ve not changed since the beginning of the
year, while about a third of fir ms across both ser vices and manufacturing sector s indicated the y
have reduced their hiring plans. W age growth w as moderate, led b y an acceleration of w ages in
consumer-oriented ser vice sector s.
Prices
Prices continued to grow at a moderate p ace o ver the last month and business contacts repor ted
a willingness to adjust their prices more frequentl y comp ared to last year . Ongoing shifts in trade
policy led to businesses accelerating impor t activity to limit e xposure to looming impor t levies,
resulting in higher global transpor tation costs. Man y U.S.-bound ocean shipping routes w ere tightl y
booked, causing surge pricing in spot mar kets for shipping . Moreo ver, some retail fir ms repor ted
38
they opted for the quick er and more fle xible, but much more costl y, option of air freight to a void
tariffs. Contacts noted the y intend to p ass these higher shipping costs onto consumer s over the
next year . Businesses generall y anticip ated higher input and output prices in the coming months.
Consumer Spending
Spending declined significantl y across se veral retail categories, including app arel, electronics, and
furniture. Both foot traffic at retail locations and online retail sales softened in recent w eeks. Con-
sumer s seemingl y spent more time at home o ver the p ast month as modest declines in spending
at restaurants and hotels w ere offset b y moderate growth in spending on groceries and home
maintenance. Se veral contacts indicated e xpectations for a reduction in consumer demand ahead,
with lots of uncer tainty about the size of the change in spending . The primar y driver of the soft-
ening outlook for consumer s was an e xpectation higher prices would tighten household budgets,
and consumer s would reign in spending to some e xtent, p articular ly on tra vel-related ser vices and
retail goods.
Community Conditions
Most Communit y Development F inancial Institutions (CDFIs) across the T enth District repor ted
their underwriting standards tightened modestl y and that the y were seeing more financial stress
among clients. Credit scores and conditions of their clients w ere wor sening , and more clients w ere
coming in seeking debt consolidation. P ayday and student loans w ere a rising concer n with more
borrowers showing derogator y mar ks on their credit repor ts. Nati ve CDFIs highlighted concer ns
regarding CDFI recer tification, which one contact estimated could result in a loss of 40 percent of
Native CDFIs nationwide. Moreo ver, Nati ve CDFIs e xpressed concer ns about lending to organiza-
tions with re venues associated with go vernment contracts.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity
Business acti vity was mixed amid volatile demand conditions, with manufacturing acti vity con-
tracting slightl y, and consumer retail and discretionar y spending declining substantiall y. How ever,
activity in wholesale ser vice sector s rose at a robust rate, dri ven b y sales of materials, industrial
equipment, and health care supplies. The rise in wholesale acti vity was often attributed to busi-
nesses responding to shifting trade dynamics b y building their in ventories. Just under half of
manufacturing fir ms repor ted increasing their in ventor y stock le vels, though almost as man y firms
repor ted running dow n their in ventor y of p arts and materials. V ery few manufacturing fir ms indi-
cated the y did not adjust their in ventor y management strateg y in recent months. A machiner y pro-
ducer noted that “tariff uncer tainty has made long-ter m planning difficult, ” prompting a shift tow ard
shorter planning c ycles and higher precautionar y inventories. Ser vices fir ms show ed similar ,
though more modest, changes in in ventories. Capital e xpenditures remained under pressure.Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas Cit y39
Nearly a third of manufacturing fir ms and a quar ter of ser vice fir ms repor ted the y decreased
capital spending plans. The outlook for capital spending o ver the ne xt six months remained some-
what fa vorable, but contacts e xpressed greater uncer tainty about in vestment acti vity for the
coming year s. As one contact put it, “right now w e are wor king on triage, w e’ll wor ry about diet and
exercise later .”
Real Estate and Constr uction
Single famil y home builder s indicated acti vity slow ed in recent months. Customer demand for
newly built homes softened despite builder s offering relati vely strong incenti ves to offset high
interest rates. Builder s also faced greater competition for customer s from the e xisting home
market. Inventories of homes for sale rose substantiall y, prices declined slightl y, and low house-
hold mobilit y in recent year s generated some preference for mo ve-in ready homes among the still-
subdued number of households seeking to buy a home. Builder s also felt pressure from robust
increases in materials costs o ver the p ast month. The suppl y of constr uction labor w as repor tedly
stable, but man y builder s indicated the y were considering cuts to their wor kforce.
Community and Regional Banking
Loan demand w as mostl y unchanged across lending categories, although bank ers noted a slight
increase in demand for commercial and industrial loans. Underwriting standards w ere unchanged
following the modest tightening obser ved in prior months. Se veral respondents continued to antici-
pate overall loan qualit y will deteriorate some what o ver the ne xt six months, primaril y due to gen-
eral economic uncer tainty. Yet, loan qualit y remained relati vely stable in recent w eeks. Deposit
levels w ere mostl y unchanged, though some bank ers noted slight changes from the prior month,
which the y attributed to competition for rates and tax p ayments.
Energ y
Electric pow er generation cap acity in the T enth District gre w moderatel y in recent months, dri ven
by a mix of ne w wind and solar in vestments. Se veral contacts in the pow er and rene wables indus-
tries repor ted utilities and pow er producer s are car rying forw ard man y planned rene wable energ y
investments decisions despite recent or anticip ated polic y changes. Still, contacts noted that
rising equipment costs, suppl y chain uncer tainty, and energ y polic y uncer tainty are putting mar-
ginal projects on hold in the near ter m. De velopers emphasized the y are looking to advance onl y
those “no regret” in vestments in smaller projects with swifter p ayback periods. O verall, contacts
anticip ated rising retail electricit y prices in the coming year s, driven b y strong demand and con-
strained suppl y.40 The Beige Book
Agriculture
Conditions in the T enth District far m econom y remained w eak through ear ly May. Corn, soybean,
and wheat prices remained low and k ept profit o pportunities nar row for most producer s. Winter
wheat conditions in Colorado, Kansas, and Oklahoma w ere near historic a verages, but the cro p in
Nebraska w as particular ly poor and raised concer ns about reduced re venues in those areas. Soil
conditions for cor n and so ybeans w ere ideal in most of the region, and planting w as pacing near or
ahead of t ypical trends in all District states. In the li vestock sector , cattle prices increased o ver the
past month and continued suppor ting profit o pportunities for cow/calf producer s. District contacts
mentioned p ayments from the Emergenc y Commodit y Assistance Program could bolster liquidit y for
many crop producer s, but profitabilit y for cro ps in the year ahead remained a k ey concer n.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .KansasCit yFed.org/
research/regional-research .Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas Cit y41
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Dallas
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Ele venth District econom y was little changed o ver the repor ting period.
Nonfinancial ser vices acti vity held steady and growth in the manufacturing sector slow ed. Retail
sales w ere mixed. Loan volumes gre w slightl y, energ y acti vity eased, and the housing mar ket
remained subdued. Emplo yment w as flat and price pressures held steady e xcept for the tariff-
related increases seen in the manufacturing sector . Outlooks generall y deteriorated, and tariff
uncer tainty was making it hard for businesses to plan for the future. Se veral contacts noted an
erosion of consumer sentiment amid economic uncer tainty.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as fair ly flat o ver the repor ting period. Contacts noted that hiring w as at a standstill,
with man y comp anies instituting a hiring freeze. A headhunting fir m noted that multiple clients
recentl y paused on making offer s for senior managerial positions that the y had committed to
filling . Among energ y contacts, headcounts w ere largel y unchanged, but se veral noted that the y
were planning to reduce staffing in the months ahead as the y rein in spending . Layoffs w ere noted
in the retail sector . A fe w contacts voiced concer n over changes to immigration polic y and the
impact on the wor kforce. Recent changes in federal funding ha ve placed a strain on staffing
among local nonprofit organizations. Numerous contacts across industries noted that higher tariffs
and ele vated uncer tainty weighed on hiring plans. W age pressures w ere largel y stable o ver the
past six w eeks.
Prices
Prices continued to increase at a moderate p ace, though fuel prices declined, and a more mar ked
pickup w as seen in the manufacturing sector . Manufacturing raw materials prices jumped up in
April and to a lesser e xtent in Ma y, and comp anies repor ted a faster p ace of finished goods price
increases in response. This is largel y driven b y tariffs, with the estimated imp act centering on a
5 to 10 percent cost increase, according to se veral contacts. Repor ts were mixed on the e xtent to
which comp anies w ere able to p ass along the higher costs to customer s, with a minorit y expecting
full pass through. Oilfield ser vices fir ms noted p articular difficult y passing through tariff increases
on steel products, machiner y components, and equipment. Among fir ms passing through tariff
42
cost increases to customer s, about 60 percent are doing so within a month of the tariff taking
effect, and 90 percent are doing so within three months, according to an April Dallas F ed sur vey of
Texas business e xecuti ves.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing output continued to grow but at a slow er pace o ver the repor ting period, and ne w
order s declined. Machiner y and nondurable goods manufacturing w ere bright spots, while growth
abated for most durable goods production. Gulf Coast refineries noted health y cap acity utilization
rates. Manufacturing outlooks wor sened fur ther amid widespread e xpectations of a negati ve
impact from higher tariffs this year . Half of manufacturer s source at least 10 percent of their
inputs from outside the U.S., according to an April Dallas F ed sur vey of 83 T exas factor y execu-
tives. More than 60 percent e xpect decreased profit margins this year as a result of higher tariffs,
44 percent e xpect low er capital spending , and 29 percent e xpect a dro p in production.
Retail Sales
Retail sales rebounded in April but declined notabl y in Ma y. Auto sales dipped after strengthening
in March amid forw ard buying ahead of tariffs. There w ere scattered repor ts of product dela ys
among retailer s, sometimes stemming from shipping issues. Retail outlooks wor sened notabl y
over the repor ting period, and higher tariffs are e xpected to ha ve an e xtensi ve imp act, as most
Texas retailer s source at least 25 percent of their goods from outside the U.S. Retail e xecuti ves
are expecting squeezed profit margins and decreased sales this year due to higher tariffs.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Activity in nonfinancial ser vices held fair ly steady . An uptick w as seen in professional and busi-
ness ser vices, while leisure and hospitalit y and transpor tation ser vices e xhibited w eakness. Air-
lines noted w aning demand for leisure tra vel, which the y attribute to a decline in consumer senti-
ment. P ort contacts noted a distor tion in shipping p atterns, with car riers front loading cargo amid
tariff uncer tainty. Staffing ser vices fir ms spok e of flat demand, mostl y below le vels seen last year ,
though a couple noted a pickup tow ard the end of the repor ting period. T ariff concer ns were
present among nonfinancial ser vices contacts, though not as pre valent as in other sector s. Pri-
marily, high le vels of federal go vernment polic y uncer tainty weighed on comp any outlooks.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Housing mar ket acti vity remained subdued, with both traffic and sales continuing at a slow p ace.
Affordabilit y challenges per sisted, and heightened uncer tainty and stock mar ket volatilit y damp -
ened buyer sentiment. In ventor y levels w ere rising for both ne w and e xisting homes, and builder sFederal Reser ve Bank of Dallas 43
were ha ving to offer more incenti ves to close deals, placing additional pressure on margins.
Builder s voiced concer n about the imp act of tariffs on constr uction costs, but said the imp act has
been subdued thus far .
Commercial real estate acti vity generall y remained steady during the repor ting period. Ap artment
leasing w as strong , though rent growth continued to be lackluster due to ele vated suppl y. Indus-
trial demand w as solid, but there w ere repor ts of slowing leasing acti vity due to tariff uncer tainty.
Outlooks w ere cautious, with uncer tainty stemming from tariff polices causing de velopers and
investor s to tak e a w ait-and-see approach on ne w deals.
Financial Ser vices
Loan volume gre w slightl y over the p ast six w eeks, while loan demand w as unchanged. Credit
tightening continued, but loan pricing declined. Loan nonperfor mance continued to rise but onl y
slightl y, increasing at the slow est pace since the end of 2022. Ne vertheless, bank ers repor ted fur-
ther contraction in general business acti vity. Bank ers cited financial and/ or economic uncer tainty,
cybersecurit y, loan demand, and liquidit y as their to p outlook concer ns for the ne xt six months.
Concer n regarding office and multifamil y commercial real estate loan perfor mance remained
stable from F ebruary and dow n from the peak in August 2024; how ever, perfor mance concer ns for
other commercial real estate loans tick ed up. Bank ers are less o ptimistic about the future. On
net, the y still e xpect an impro vement in loan demand and business acti vity six months from now ,
but that sentiment is less broad based, and loan nonperfor mance is e xpected to increase.
Energ y
Activity in the oil and gas sector eased o ver the p ast six w eeks. Contacts noted a focus on drilling
in the more oil-rich p arts of the T exas P ermian Basin, as the low er price en vironment mak es other
areas less economical. Ex ploration and production fir ms expect to cut capital spending in the
second half of the year b y more than initiall y planned, as rising o verseas production will w eigh on
oil prices. Altogether , contacts now e xpect near ly flat production through December , as increased
producti vity offsets reduced in vestment in higher-cost w ells.
Agriculture
Drought conditions eased in much of the district, though some w ester n areas remained in e xtreme
drought. Ample moisture in cro p-growing areas suppor ted fa vorable planting conditions and led to
optimism for production this year , though continued timel y rains will be needed. Cotton prices
moved up on the ne ws of U.S.-China tariff reductions. Grain prices remained soft, pressured b y
strong U.S. cro p production prospects and trade restrictions. Cattle prices continued to mo ve up
to record highs, suppor ted by solid beef demand and a small U.S. cow herd. High calf prices and44 The Beige Book
strong grazing conditions could lead to herd e xpansion this year . Contacts noted that the recent
Emergenc y Commodit y Assistance Program—which issues one-time economic assistance p ay-
ments based on planting last year—w as a notable infusion of cash to far mers and created some
financial relief.
Community P erspectives
Demand for social ser vices remained ele vated, and se veral contacts noted an uptick in clients
seeking assistance for basic necessities, p articular ly among low-income wor kers and immigrant
populations. Multiple contacts cited access to public transpor tation and childcare as significant
challenges for wor kforce p articipation. A contact in South T exas said man y residents are still
facing issues from recent flooding , particular ly those who did not qualify for federal assistance yet
cannot afford to replace r uined car s or fix damage to their homes. Ne w resource constraints, lik e
the pullback in federal funding for food p antries and AmeriCor ps, impeded organizations ’ abilit y to
meet the increased demand the y are obser ving. Refugee and immigration ser vices noted a se vere
impact from federal funding cuts. Nonprofits shared that funding instabilit y is a k ey concer n for the
foreseeable future.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .dallasfed.org/
research/te xas.Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas 45
Federal Reser ve Bank of
San F rancisco
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the T welfth District slow ed slightl y during the April to mid-Ma y repor ting period.
Emplo yment le vels w ere generall y stable amid some la yoffs and attrition without replacement.
Wages w ere up slightl y, and prices across industries rose modestl y. Retail sales and demand for
consumer and business ser vices softened some what. Manufacturing acti vity declined slightl y and
conditions in agriculture and resource-related sector s weakened some what. Conditions in residen-
tial and commercial real estate mar kets softened slightl y, while financial sector conditions w ere
largel y unchanged. Conditions w eakened fur ther in communit y suppor t and ser vices amid declines
in funding and sustained demand. Looking forw ard, contacts e xpressed a slightl y more positi ve
outlook on the econom y relati ve to the prior repor ting period, although the o verall e xpectations for
economic conditions continued to be generall y dow ntrodden.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels w ere generall y stable in recent w eeks. While headcounts w ere steady in man y
sector s, a number of contacts in real estate, manufacturing , agriculture, finance, and nonprofits
repor ted low er emplo yment from la yoffs and attrition. Economic uncer tainty and slowing consumer
demand led man y businesses to tak e a w ait and see approach in hiring . Emplo yers looking to hire
had an easier time o verall, though recr uiting challenges remained for some specialized trade and
technical positions. F irms recei ved more applications, though not all applicants ’ skill sets met
emplo yers’ needs. Se veral contacts noted that recent graduates had difficult y finding jobs and
repor ted low er tur nover and voluntar y sep arations.
Wages gre w slightl y overall, in line with the prior repor ting period, p artially in response to e xplicit
emplo yee requests to co ver higher costs of li ving. Nonetheless, se veral contacts in sector s such
as agriculture, food ser vices, and tra vel ser vices repor ted that w ages w ere unchanged in recent
weeks. A retailer commented that the softer labor mar ket weakened competition for candidates
and alle viated w age pressures. Another contact obser ved that on-the-job training needs and costs
increased.
46
Prices
Prices rose modestl y as in the prior repor ting period. Costs rose, including those for fir ms’ inputs,
such as metals, concrete, p arts and equipment, as w ell as costs for impor ted merchandise for
retail sale, insurance, and utilities. As a result, man y businesses raised their final prices. In some
cases, fir ms explicitl y included a sep arate tariff line for items or contingencies in their price
quotes and contracts. One contact obser ved that price increases that had been implemented in
anticip ation of cer tain tariffs w ere not rolled back once those tariffs w ere remo ved.
Community Conditions
Conditions in the communit y suppor t and ser vices sector deteriorated as federal funding and
charitable donations dro pped notabl y. Demand for communit y and suppor t services rose some-
what as indi viduals and households continued to seek housing , health care, and food assistance.
Meanwhile, man y nonprofit organizations reduced their staff and w ere less able to meet basic
communit y needs. A vailabilit y of affordable housing continued to be a concer n for contacts across
the District.
Retail T rade and Ser vices
Retail sales w eakened slightl y on net o ver the repor ting period. Some retailer s, particular ly from
tourism-dri ven areas, attributed slug gish sales to low er foot traffic and cautious spending beha vior
from consumer s. Sales at other retailer s, including grocer y stores, home center s, and spor ts
apparel stores w ere repor tedly steady . A contact from Arizona obser ved higher sales of non-food
and discretionar y items ahead of potential reinstatement of higher tariff rates. Some retailer s had
adequate in ventor y levels. Other s had insufficient in ventor y due to suppl y chain disr uptions as
some impor t order s were cancelled in response to trade polic y changes.
Activity in the consumer and business ser vices sector s moderated some what in recent w eeks.
Demand for leisure tra vel slow ed fur ther as consumer s postponed or canceled their trips. Busi-
ness tra vel remained subdued with fe wer conferences and group e vents due to economic uncer-
tainty and cutbacks in go vernment spending on tra vel and grants. Major tourist hubs across the
District highlighted a substantial dro p in inter national visitor s which led to low er consumer
spending and w eaker local economic acti vity. Demand for medical testing , legal, and other profes-
sional ser vices w as largel y unchanged. How ever, one contact noted that business clients switched
to cheaper ser vice p ackages, such as for securit y and custodial ser vices, as a cost sa ving
measure.Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco 47
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity slow ed slightl y since the pre vious repor ting period. Demand for some final
products, such as equipment and app arel, w eakened following ear lier spik es in order s ahead of
tariff increases. Demand for inter mediate goods also softened. F or contacts across the District,
costs of raw materials and components rose in response to changes in trade polic y. Some manu-
facturer s were repor tedly able to negotiate sharing the cost of tariffs with their vendor s abroad.
Other s passed on cost increases to their customer s or planned on doing so when cur rent tariff
pauses e xpire in Jul y.
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
Conditions in agriculture and resource-related sector s weakened slightl y. Exports fell for products
such as nuts, tree fr uit, beef, and logs. As a result, producer s turned to domestic mar kets. While
domestic demand w as largel y stable, it w as insufficient to absorb the e xtra suppl y, which led to
producer s recei ving low er prices for their products. Additionall y, contacts noted a shift in demand
away from some higher-priced products, such as organic produce. While yields of some agricultural
products such as nuts w ere solid, supplies of other s such as cattle and logs w ere dow n. Grow ers
continued to raise concer ns about anticip ated increases in input costs, lik e fertilizer. A contact
in the P acific Nor thwest paused capital in vestment plans amid economic and trade polic y
uncer tainty.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Activity in the residential real estate mar ket weakened slightl y in recent w eeks. Constr uction con-
tinued to slow as builder s faced o verall softening demand, high costs, and ele vated uncer tainty.
Sales of single-famil y homes slow ed and shifted tow ards smaller , lower-priced pro perties. How ever,
a few contacts in p arts of the Mountain W est region obser ved that po pulation growth k ept demand
solid. Some potential buyer s opted to rent instead, gi ven the ele vated prices and high mor tgage
rates. Multifamil y rents gre w in some areas, such as in Souther n Califor nia where recent fires
increased rental demand. Rents declined in other areas, such as the Mountain W est, where more
units on the mar ket increased suppl y.
Conditions in commercial real estate w eakened some what, as in the prior repor ting period.
Demand for commercial sp ace leases fell o verall as tenants w aited for more clarit y about trade
policy and economic conditions. Contacts repor ted more vacancies, including for retail and office
space. Leasing demand w as some what bolstered b y tenants with stronger financial positions. Con-
struction of ne w commercial pro perty remained slow , particular ly in the pri vate sector , because of
uncer tainty about future economic conditions and the effects of trade polic y on building costs and48 The Beige Book
materials a vailabilit y. Constr uction acti vity for public sector projects such as transpor tation and
utilities remained solid.
Financial Institutions
Conditions in the financial sector changed little o ver the repor ting period. Consumer loan demand
was unchanged on net but varied more b y region than in the prior repor ting period. Contacts in
Califor nia and W ashington saw softer demand for loans while contacts in Idaho and Utah repor ted
that demand w as more robust. Demand for business loans remained subdued as some fir ms
postponed ne w investments. Most contacts in the banking sector repor ted good credit qualit y, but
a few other s noted rising credit card delinquencies and some losses in their commercial real
estate loan por tfolios. Repor ts also noted slow growth in deposits.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .frbsf.org/research-and-
insights/publications/san-francisco -fed-twelfth-district-beige-book/ .Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco 49
www.federalreser ve.go v
0625