               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
               W e d n e s d a y  
               S e p t e m b e r  9 ,  2 0 0 9  
  
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
   
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
  
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
     
  
 
 
August  2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON C URRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
  
August 2009 
 
   
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 SUMMARY ....................................................................................................................... ........ i 
First District - Boston........................................................................................................ ...... I-1 
Second District - New York .................................................................................................. I I-1 
Third District - Philadelphia ................................................................................................ III-1 
Fourth District - Cleveland .................................................................................................. IV-1 
Fifth District - Richmond ..................................................................................................... . V-1 
Sixth District - Atlanta ...................................................................................................... ... VI-1 
Seventh District - Chicago ................................................................................................. VI I-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis ................................................................................................. V III-1 
Ninth District - Minneapolis ................................................................................................ I X-1 
Tenth District - Kansas City ................................................................................................. X-1 
Eleventh District - Dallas .................................................................................................... . XI-1 
Twelfth District - San Francisco ........................................................................................ XII-1  
i 
 
 SUMMARY * 
Reports from the 12 Federal Reserve Di stricts indicate that econom
ic activity 
continued to stabilize in July and August.  Relative to the last  report, Dallas indicated that 
economic activity had firmed, while Boston, Cleveland, Philadelphia, Richmond, and San 
Francisco mentioned signs of improvement.  Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Minneapolis, and New York generally desc ribed economic activity as stable or showing signs of 
stabilization; St. Louis remarked that the pace of decline appeared  to be moderating.  
Most Districts noted that the outlook for economic activity among their business contacts 
remained cautiously positive. 
The majority of Districts reported flat retail sales.  Rich mond, Philadelphia, 
Chicago, Atlanta, and Boston remarked that retailers continued to carefully manage 
inventories, keeping them in line with low sa les levels. A majority of Districts confirmed 
that the “cash-for-clunkers”  program boosted traffic and sales.  Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, and Minneapolis also noted increa ses or planned increases in automobile-
related production.  Most regions reported so me improvement in residential real estate 
markets.  Downward pressure on home pri ces continued in most Districts, although 
Dallas and New York noted that local prices were firming.  Reports on commercial real estate suggest that the demand for space remained weak and that nonresidential 
construction-related activity continued to dec line.  San Francisco, Philadelphia, and St. 
Louis noted that the demand for nonfinancial se rvices remained soft, although the pace of 
the decline was described as slowing in th e latter two District s.  Loan demand was 
described as weak and many Dist ricts reported that credit stan dards remained tight.  Most 
Districts reported improvements in ma nufacturing production.  For instance, 
Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Cleveland, a nd Chicago reported moderate increases in 
new orders.  Labor market conditions remain ed weak across all Districts.  However, 
staffing firms in Atlanta, Dallas, Richmond, Cleveland, Philadelphia, Boston, New York, and Chicago did report a slight pickup in the demand for temporary workers. 
                                                
 
        * Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and based on information collected 
before August 31, 2009. This document summari zes comments received from businesses 
and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of 
Federal Reserve officials. 
ii 
 
 
Wage pressures remained minimal across all Districts.  Consumer prices were 
described as being steady in most District s, although Kansas City and San Francisco 
noted some downward pressure on retail prices.   
 
Consumer Spending and Tourism    
Consumer spending remained soft in most Districts.  The majority of Districts 
reported that retail activity was flat.  Boston, Philadelphia, and Kansas City noted 
improvement in sales, but attributed the incr ease primarily to back-to-school purchases.  
Philadelphia, Chicago, Cleveland, and San Fr ancisco observed that shoppers remained 
focused on essentials and con tinued to refrain from purch asing discretionary and big-
ticket items.  Kansas City and San Francisc o noted weak restaura nt sales.  Richmond, 
Philadelphia, Chicago, Atlanta, and Boston rema rked that retailer inventories were being 
closely monitored and were keeping them  in line with low sales levels.   
The majority of Districts reported that the cash-for-clunkers program helped boost 
traffic and sales, although Clev eland and Kansas City also re marked that used car sales 
were adversely affected by the program.  The sustainability of the higher recent pace of 
new vehicle sales was questioned by industry contacts in the Richmond, Atlanta, 
Minneapolis, and San Fran cisco Districts.   
Tourism activity varied.  Kansas City, Minneapolis, and Richmond observed solid 
visitor numbers at local vacation destina tions, whereas Atlanta and New York noted 
sluggish activity and aggressive hotel discountin g.  San Francisco reported that activity in 
California and Nevada was weak, but visitors to Hawaii had increased. 
 
Real Estate and Construction  
Residential real estate markets rema ined weak, but signs of improvement 
continued to be noted.  Chicago, Richm ond, Boston, and San Francisco observed an 
uptick in sales over the last six weeks, while  sales in the Philadelphia District were 
described as steady.  St. Louis commented that  residential home sales had not improved.  
Most Districts reported that sales remained be low the levels of a year earlier.  However, 
Atlanta, New York, Cleveland, and Minneapolis documented some year-over-year gains 
iii 
 
in select markets.  Most Districts noted that demand remained stronger at the low-end of 
the housing market.  Boston, Cleveland, Dalla s, Kansas City, Richmond, and New York 
indicated that the first-time home buyer ta x incentive was spurring sales.  However, 
Philadelphia did note an upturn in sales at the high-end of the market.  Reports on house 
prices generally indicated ongoing downward pressures, although Dallas and New York 
noted some increases.  Construction remained at low levels overall, although Chicago and 
Dallas reported a small increase in activity. 
Reports on commercial real estate ma rkets indicated that demand for space 
remained weak and that construction continue d to decline in all Districts.  Atlanta, 
Philadelphia, Richmond, and San Francisco reported that vacancy rates increased, while rates held steady in the Boston and Kansas C ity Districts and were mixed in New York.  
Boston, Dallas, Kansas City, Philadelphia,  and Richmond commented that the demand 
for space remained weak.  Commercial rent s declined according to Boston, Chicago, 
New York, Philadelphia, and Richmond.  Re nt concessions were reported in the 
Richmond and San Francisco markets, and Richmond noted that some landlords had postponed property improvements in an effort to conserve cash.  Construction remained 
at very low levels, with modest improve ments noted in public construction in the 
Chicago, Cleveland, and Minn eapolis Districts.   
 
Nonfinancial Services    
Reports on the demand for nonfinancial services were mixed.  San Francisco, 
Philadelphia, and St. Louis noted that the demand for service sector business remained 
soft, although the pace of decline was desc ribed as having slowed in the latter two 
Districts.  The demand for legal services remained relatively flat at low levels according 
to Dallas and Minneapolis.  Kansas City and Richmond cited increasing demand for 
technology-related services.  Healthcare services in Minnea polis also experienced an 
uptick in demand.  Demand for transportation se rvices were mixed, with some Districts 
noting stabilization at weak levels.  Reports indicated that freight volume declines were moderating in Cleveland, while Dallas and A tlanta reported a modest pickup in rail 
shipments. 
 
iv 
 
 
Banking and Financial Services 
Most Districts reported that loan dema nd was weak and that credit standards 
remained tight.  New York, Philadelphia, Cl eveland, Richmond, Kansas City, St. Louis, 
and San Francisco observed further weakening in loan demand across most categories.  
Dallas noted scattered reports of improvement s in loan demand.  Contacts in Cleveland, 
Chicago, and Dallas noted an increase in dema nd for auto loans.  Credit standards ranged 
from unchanged to tighter in most District s.  However, Chicago reported that credit 
conditions and availability had improved. 
Mortgage activity declined modestly acco rding to the Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
and Kansas City Districts, while Richmond reported increa ses attributed to improved 
demand for starter homes.  Dallas noted an upt ick in refinancing act ivity.  Commercial 
and industrial lending declined  in the Philadelphia and Kansas City regions, and was 
steady according to Richmond.  The lack of ava ilable credit was cited as an issue for both 
residential and commercial contractors in Cleveland, and for commercial real estate borrowers in Atlanta.  San Francisco reporte d an increase in venture capital investment. 
Further deterioration in credit quali ty was noted by Philadelphia, Richmond, 
Dallas, and San Francisco, whereas Clevela nd observed some improvement in credit 
quality.  Chicago also cited improvements in  credit quality, apart from home equity and 
commercial real estate.  Dallas and Chicago noted increases in consumer bankruptcies, 
while rising delinquency rates were reported by New York and Cleveland. 
 
Manufacturing  
Most Districts reported modest improvements in the manufacturing sector.  
Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Cleveland, and Chicago all reported slight-to-moderate 
increases in new orders.  San Francisco indicated that  new orders increased for 
manufacturers of semiconductors and other IT  products, while orders declined for metal 
fabricators and petroleum refine ries.  Dallas noted that orders  held steady, while St. Louis 
reported that manufacturing output  continued to decline, but at a slower pace.  Richmond, 
Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis reported incr eases or planned increases in automobile 
v 
 
and automobile-related production.  Several Di stricts also noted increased production in 
the pharmaceutical industry. 
The near-term outlook among manufacturers va ried, but the majority of reports 
indicated that manufacturers were cauti ously optimistic.  Boston, New York, and 
Philadelphia reported that their contacts expect  modest growth later this year or early 
2010.  Boston noted that while its contacts gene rally expect modest growth, several cost 
control measures would remain in place.  Dallas reported increased uncertainty among 
construction-related manufacturers, while Cleveland noted that half of their 
manufacturing contacts exp ected weak demand into 2010. 
 
Employment, Wages, and Prices  
Labor market conditions remained weak acro ss all Districts, but several also noted 
an uptick in temporary hiring and a decline in the pace of layoffs.  Richmond reported 
that most service-providing firms continue d to cut employees, while Minneapolis and 
New York noted additional layoffs in the manufacturing sector.  Cleveland reported 
modest job declines in the banking, commercia l construction, and coal mining sectors.  
Further job cuts are expected in auto ma nufacturing according to St. Louis, and Dallas 
indicated further staff reducti ons are anticipated in the ai rline, energy, and residential 
construction sectors.  Staffing firms in a majo rity of Districts repor ted a modest increase 
in the demand for temporary workers, although industry contacts in Boston also 
questioned whether these gain s will persist.  New York cited a modest pickup in 
temporary hiring for the legal and financial industries.  Chicago noted an uptick in 
demand for workers in the healthcare and info rmation technology indus tries.  St. Louis 
and Minneapolis reported that federal stim ulus funds have had a positive impact on 
construction and local government jobs.   
Wage pressures remained low across all Districts.  Several Districts noted 
businesses and local governments imposing wage freezes or even reducing employee 
compensation in some instances.  Boston noted  that several manuf acturers who have cut 
wage rates do not expect to restore pay levels  until next year.  Kans as City, Philadelphia, 
Chicago, Minneapolis, San Francisco, Dallas, and Richmond noted an increase in the cost of some raw materials, including fuel, metals , and steel.  Chicago and Dallas mentioned 
vi 
 
that excess supply was putting substantial dow nward pressure on natural gas prices.  
Retail prices were described as generally stea dy in most Districts, although Kansas City 
and San Francisco noted continued discounting and downward pressure on consumer 
prices. 
 
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
Reports on agricultural activ ity were mixed.  Weather conditions were described 
as being favorable in St. Louis, Kansas City, and Atlanta.  However, cold weather, crop 
diseases, and drought were limiting production  of corn, cotton, and soybeans in the 
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts.  Drought and weak market conditions were 
significantly affecting livestock industries according to Kansas City and Dallas.  Dallas reported that some ranchers had liquidated portions of th eir cattle herds, while hog 
producers in the Kansas City District were said  to be struggling as a result of lower pork 
prices. 
Atlanta, Dallas, Kansas City, and San Francisco noted increased oil and gas 
inventories as a result of reduced consumpti on.  Contacts in the natural gas industry noted 
that subdued demand continued to  suppress prices and has lead to cutbacks in extraction 
activity.  Cleveland indicated that weak dema nd for electricity prompted coal producers 
to scale back production and capital investment.  Kansas City noted that although coal 
production in Wyoming had risen, it remained be low year-ago levels.  Dallas and Atlanta 
remarked that oil and gas dril ling activity continued to dec line in the Gulf of Mexico, 
whereas Kansas City and Dallas reported th at the number of rigs  operating on land had 
increased.   
I-1 
 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON  
Many business contacts in the First Distri ct report recent signs of improvement, 
although most say activity remains below year-earlier levels. C ontacted retailers, 
manufacturers, and software and IT services providers, while still reporting mixed results, 
are more confident about their companies’ and the economy’s eventual recovery. Staffing 
firms cite upticks in activity. Residential real  estate sales rose in recent months, although 
prices continued to fall; commercial real esta te markets remain very soft. Price pressures 
are mostly said to be modest and fewer firms say they plan layoffs than in the last round. 
Retail  
Contacted retailers in the First District re port mixed sales results  for the months of 
July and August. Several retailers attribute soft  sales in part to inclement weather, while 
others note that consumers still seem to be cautious in their spending and focused on 
getting the best value for their dollar; some respondents feel this tr end is going to be the 
“new norm” and that recovery will be a long and drawn out process. However, other 
respondents see signs of improvement, particul arly in sales of items classified as 
discretionary, and many First Di strict retail contacts are more optimistic than in recent 
conversations.  
Retailers continue to manage inventory le vels carefully, with several working to 
bring inventory more in line with sales. Ca pital spending remains carefully controlled. 
Contacts note that headcounts are stable. Selling prices ar e steady, but a few retailers 
express concern about pote ntial price pressures.  
Manufacturing and Related Services 
 Most manufacturing and related services contacts headquartered in the First 
District report that the pace of business has improved or exceeded expectations in recent 
months. Some contacts had higher sales in the second quarter than in the first and 
anticipate further growth in the third quarter . Several others indicate that their sales 
picked up slightly starting in the summe r. Among the few respondents who report 
continued worsening in sales trends, one is  hoping to see improvement as consumers 
broaden their spending increases  beyond automobiles and elec tronic equipment. Despite 
the recent upticks, however, almost all manuf acturing and related services respondents 
note that sales and orders have remained we ll below year-earlier le vels. Some companies 
have temporarily shut factories in orde r to hold down inventories. Only the 
biopharmaceutical sector reports sustaine d sales growth during the past year. 
Manufacturers say that materials costs are flat to down compar ed to a year ago. 
The only notable increases are due to forei gn currency appreciation. Selling prices also 
are reported to be mostly flat to down, de pending on the degree of market competition.  
Apart from implementing previously announ ced restructuring programs, most of 
the contacted manufacturers and related services providers have no plans to increase or 
decrease their U.S. employment in coming m onths. Domestic hiring is limited mostly to 
offsetting attrition or expanding R&D and fi nance staffing. Many firms are continuing to 
hold down labor costs through furloughs, pay freezes, or suspensions of 401K plan matches. Several respondents that had cut employee pay 5 pe rcent to 20 percent earlier 
this year say they are now planning to re store previous pay levels in 2010. Capital 
spending plans remain subdued, and center mo stly on new product de velopment or cost 
reduction.  
Most manufacturers and rela ted services providers are planning for modest 
revenue growth and continued cost contro ls over the coming six to 12 months. Many 
I-2 
 
indicate that their finances ar e in solid shape, with stable or improving cash flow. Some 
express lingering concerns about consumer spending. 
Software and Information Technology Services 
 New England software and information technology firms report mixed results, 
with some experiencing continued slowdowns while others have begun to see modest 
improvement. Nevertheless, revenue changes fr om a year ago are largely in the range 
from zero to minus 15 percen t. Contacts report continued interest from prospective 
clients but a hesitancy to commit due to budget uncertainties and a general lack of 
confidence. One respondent notes decreased ma intenance revenues, as many clients have 
laid off employees and consequently have redu ced maintenance needs. Most First District 
software and IT firms report managing expenses  very closely to maintain profitability, 
through personnel reductions, salary freezes, th e use of video conferencing instead of 
physical travel, and decreased spending on ma rketing. Meanwhile, other firms continue 
to invest in their workforces and in R& D, hoping to benefit when the recovery does 
occur. Selling prices are being maintain ed. Several New England software and IT 
services contacts report that positive signs they see in the economy are not yet reflected 
in their numbers; most respondents anticipat e a long recovery and expect only modest 
growth in 2010.  
Staffing Services 
Nearly all New England staffing contacts re port upticks in labor demand in recent 
weeks, but they are uncertain whether the increased demand will be sustained; yearly revenues generally show declines in the 10 percent to 40 percent range. Contacts report 
growth or its initial signs in the manufacturi ng and financial industrie s as well as in the 
information technology, pharmaceutical, and reta il sectors. However, the increase in 
demand applies only to temporary labor, as pl acements for direct hires remain minimal; 
indeed, one contact does not an ticipate demand for permanent labor to return until 2011. 
While there are plenty of job seekers, labor supply is still low for specialized positions. 
Staffing contacts express c ontinued concern over expect ed increases in health 
insurance costs and state unemployment taxes in 2010 and whether they will able to pass 
those costs on to clients who may not yet be  profitable. Contacts note that clients are 
currently hiring to fill vacancies, rather than hiring to expand. One contact indicates that 
many companies are trying to do their own sourcing instead of utilizing staffing firms, as hiring speed is no longer paramount. New E ngland temporary services respondents are 
largely more optimistic than they were thr ee and six months ago, but remain uncertain 
about the near term, as they an ticipate a long, gradual recovery. 
Commercial Real Estate 
Commercial real estate contacts report no major changes in market conditions 
since last time. Leasing volume remains very low and downward pressure on rents 
continues to be intense across the region. V acancy rates have not increased perceptibly 
since the last report, but ne t absorption is perceived to be negative. Landlords are 
reportedly trying to hang on to existing tenants “at all costs.” A large supply of sublease 
space is augmented by “shadow space” that ma ny firms are not using but which they 
cannot readily sublet. Very li ttle construction ac tivity is in progress in the region: 
Speculative office construction is basical ly non-existent, but small condo conversion 
projects are under way in Cambridge and Boston.  
In recent weeks, our Providence contact ha s seen an increase in foreclosure sales 
of commercial properties, all of which had been originally financed through commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS). Sale prices on these properties reflect discounts of 
I-3 
 
up to 60 percent from peak prices observ ed in 2007. A Boston contact has observed 
declines in property value ranging from 30 percent to 60 percent on various downtown 
office buildings. One contact predicts that the national commercial property value index 
will decline 50 percent peak-to-trough before recovering. In a number of cases, rents 
have fallen below the level that supports debt repayment. In light of these conditions, 
delinquencies and foreclosures are expected to increase further in  the coming months. 
Underwriting standards in the commercial market remain very strict, with loan-to-value ratios largely below 70 percen t. Small regional banks contin ue to support the bulk of 
financing activity in the region. Our regional banking contact reports  that they have 
maintained a healthy balance sheet through c onservative lending, and experienced higher 
profits this summer compared to a year ago as a result of increased market share in 
(commercial and residential) mortgage lending.  
Over the next six months, contacts expect commercial market fundamentals either 
to decline further (in Boston and Providence) or to remain roughly flat (in Hartford). 
None expects a significant recovery of property values within the next year, and possibly longer depending on the extent of commercial foreclosures and th e employment outlook. 
The recovery of deal volume, rental rates, and vacancy rates typical ly lag recovery in 
employment rates by up to six months. Theref ore, contacts are watching the employment 
numbers closely and adjusting their forecasts accordingly.  
Residential Real Estate 
 Residential real estate markets in Ne w England showed some positive signs in 
June and July. All contacts repo rt increasing year-ove r-year sales in eith er June or July, 
many for the first time in 2009. Home sales increased between 4 percent and 13 percent 
year-over-year across the region. Condos in Massachusetts also showed a small year-
over-year sales increase in July. Most of the sa les activity is said to be taking place at the 
low end of the market, partly because the first-time homebuyer tax credit has been 
successful in spurring activity for entry-le vel homes. The high end of the market, 
including second homes, is st ill very quiet. A New Hampshire contact reports that 
distressed properties, including bank-owned properties, are moving, although the sales 
process for these homes is complicated and the deals often fall th rough. Contacts say that 
although the June and July results are promising, they will not be confid ent that they have 
passed the bottom until sales increase for another month or two.  
While sales were up, New England home pri ces continued to fall in June and July. 
Median home prices fell 5 percent to 14 percen t year-over-year in July in the six states. 
An exception was the Boston area, where the me dian home price in July was only about 1 
percent below what it was in July 2008. This  Boston contact believes that sellers are 
pricing more realistically and “further price declines should be minimal.” Another contact 
attributes low prices to the large number of  bank-owned property sa les and also to the 
fact that prices at the peak were unsustainab le; this contact does not  believe that prices 
will return quickly to the pre-slump level. Re spondents report the inventory of homes for 
sale in Massachusetts has fallen below a “balan ced” market level, as  potential sellers are 
listing their homes “only if they  have to;” this seeming shor tage should self-correct once 
prices stabilize.   
II-1 
 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has been generally stable since the last report.  The 
labor market remains soft with some signs of gradual improvement.  Manufacturing sector 
contacts report some pickup in activity and remain optimistic about the near-term outlook.  
Auto dealers report a pickup in sales activity in recent weeks, but general merchandise retailers indicate that sales have remained fairly sluggish and well below 2008 levels, though on or close to plan.  Consumer confidence impr oved slightly in August but is still at a low 
level.  Tourism activity in New York City has been steady since the last report, though 
business travel is said to be down markedly.   
Commercial real estate markets have been steady to somewhat weaker since the last 
report, while industrial markets have been stable.  Housing markets in northern New Jersey 
and upstate New York have shown some signs of picking up, especially at the lower end of the market; however, the purchase and rental markets for New York City apartments 
continued to weaken, led by the high end.  Finally, bankers report rising delinquency rates 
across all categories of loans, as well as some further weakening in loan demand and continued tightening in credit standards.  
Consumer Spending  
Retail sales were reported to be on or close to plan in July and August but still 
considerably lower than a year earlier, on a same-store basis.  Contacts indicate that they are 
planning for holiday-season sales to be down by a bit over 5 percent on a year-over-year basis.  Retail sales in New York City, which had reportedly picked up somewhat in June and early July, were said to be particularly weak in August.  Contacts in western New York State 
note that Canadian customer traffic has picked up in recent weeks, but that sales overall have 
been steady and continue to run 5 to 15 percent lower than a year ago. Overall, inventories 
are said to be at favorable levels, and selling prices remain stable, though some retailers in 
II-2 
 
upstate New York say that their pricing has been a bit more promotional in recent weeks.  
Auto dealers in upstate New York report a substantial pickup in sales since the last report, which is partially attributed to the cash-for-clunkers program but also to other, more 
fundamental, factors.  Overall, auto sales are reported to be up 10-15 percent from a year ago, 
though sales of used cars have weakened.  Contacts report modest improvement in credit conditions for consumers. 
Consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) 
rose modestly in August, according to the Conference Board, but remains at a low level and 
below the nationwide average.  Tourism activity in New York City has been weak but stable 
since the last report.  Manhattan hotels report that occupancy rates remained in the mid 80s in July and early August—down only modestly from a year earlier.  However, hotel room rates continue to run 25 to 30 percent below comparable 2008 levels—largely attributed to a shift from business travelers to leisure visitors, who tend to be more price sensitive.  Broadway 
theaters report that attendance has held relatively steady since the last report, continuing to 
run about 10 percent lower than a year earlier; however, the average ticket price is up about 16 percent, keeping total revenue moderately ahead of year-ago levels in August . 
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial real estate markets in the District were steady to somewhat softer since 
the last report.   Manhattan’s office vacancy rate rose moderately in July and August, while 
asking rents continued to decline—rents on Class A properties are down roughly 20 percent from a year earlier, and that does not include increased concessions by landlords.  Elsewhere in the District, however, office markets have generally been stable: vacancy rates rose modestly in Long Island, northern New Jersey and metropolitan Syracuse but edged down in 
Westchester and Fairfield Counties and in the Rochester area; vacancy rates held steady in the Albany and Buffalo areas.  Asking rents on Class A properties are down modestly over 
II-3 
 
the past year across most of the District.  Industrial markets have been mixed but mostly 
steady.   
The housing market has shown scattered signs of a pickup in parts of the District, 
though conditions have continued to weaken in New York City.  A New Jersey contact notes signs of a mild pickup at the lower end of the resale market—helped by the homebuyer tax credit—but maintains that sales and starts of new homes remain flat at low levels.  Prices are said to have firmed slightly in New Jersey’s resale market, though they remain substantially lower than a year ago.  Similarly, Realtors across New York State report that prices rose in 
July but are running well below comparable 2008 levels.  
In contrast, New York City’s multi-family market has continued to weaken.  
Manhattan co-op and condo prices have reportedly continued to fall in the current quarter.  
However, transactions activity, which had been exceptionally sluggish in the second quarter, has reportedly picked up in the current quarter, except at the high end of the market, where 
activity has evidently been constrained by tight credit.  Prices of newly-constructed 
condominiums, which are mostly at the high end of the market, have been discounted steeply, reflecting a large inventory.  The apartment rental market has also continued to deteriorate, especially at the high end: overall, asking rents are reported to be down 6 to 10 percent from a year earlier in August; moreover, landlords are typically waiving commissions and offering 
concessions, such as 1-2 months free rent.   
Other Business Activity 
A leading New York City employment agency specializing in mid-level office jobs 
notes a modest pickup in hiring in August, with the legal and financial sectors coming back 
somewhat.  However, offering salaries are said to be down more than 10 percent from a year 
ago.  While there are still reported to be a la rge number of applicants, the flow of newly 
unemployed people is said to have diminished noticeably.  A contact in the financial sector 
II-4 
 
notes that merger-related layoffs are expected to continue for some time but that the general 
mood has improved noticeably—profits at trading firms have been strong this year, and a sizable number of middle-level workers are expected to see increases in compensation.  
More broadly, business contacts across all industries, including manufacturing, report 
that employment continues to decline, but to a less widespread degree than in the first half of this year; moreover, a growing proportion indicate that they expect to increase employment at their firms in the months ahead.  In assessing business conditions generally, both manufacturers and other firms report a pickup in activity for the first time in more than a 
year.  Moreover, a growing proportion of both groups say they are optimistic about the 
business outlook.  Firms across most sectors continue to report increases in prices paid but modest declines in prices received. 
Financial Developments  
Small to medium-sized banks in the District report a decrease in overall loan demand, 
though to a less widespread degree than in the last report.  Bankers again report a decrease in 
refinancing activity.  For all loan categories, respondents indicate ongoing tightening of credit standards.  Respondents note an increase in the spreads of loan rates over costs of 
funds for all loan categories.  The widening in spreads was most prevalent in the commercial mortgage category, where 37 percent of bankers report an increase in spreads and no banker 
reported a decrease.  Finally, bankers indicate increases in delinquency rates, on net, across 
all loan categories.  The percentage of bankers reporting an increase was roughly 30 percent in every loan category, while the percentage reporting decreased delinquency rates ranged from 0 percent in the residential mortgage category to 6 percent in the consumer loan category.  
III-1 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Economic conditions in the Third District  showed little change from July to 
August, although there were a few scattered signs of improvement. Manufacturers, on 
balance, reported a steady rate of shipments and a slight increase in new orders. Retailers 
indicated that sales of back-to-school merchandise had picked up, although the overall 
sales pace remained soft. Motor vehicle dealers indicated that sales of new vehicles rose 
from July to August, although they remained below the year-ago pace. Third District banks reported level loan volume, overall,  and further declines in credit quality. 
Residential real estate agen ts generally noted steady sales of existing homes, although 
they noted that the sales rate remained belo w the year-ago pace. Nonresidential real estate 
leasing and construction activity  continued to be slow. Se rvice sector firms reported 
mainly steady activity at a slow pace. Busine ss firms in the region reported mostly level 
input costs and output prices in August, although they noted some increases compared with July. 
The outlook in the Third District busin ess community was slightly better in 
August than at the time of the previous  Beige Book. Although most contacts do not 
expect strong improvement in the imme diate future, some now believe economic 
conditions are beginning to stabilize and th at a slow pickup in activity might get under 
way in the near term. Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments and orders during the 
next six months. Retailers are generally cautious , expecting only slight sales gains in the 
rest of the year. Auto dealers think sales will ease in the shor t term, but they believe that 
the sales rate might be better in the later part  of the year than it was in the first half. 
Bankers anticipate demand for credit to remain soft as businesses and individuals continue to reduce indebtedness. Residential real estate contacts believe housing demand will continue to stabilize, although they exp ect only a slight improvement in market 
conditions during the rest of the year. Contacts in nonresidential real estate expect leasing 
and construction to remain weak during the rest of this year. 
 Manufacturing 
Third District manufacturer s reported a steady pace of shipments and a slight 
increase in new orders, on balance, from July to August. Although the rise in demand for area manufacturers’ products has been slight , it has been fairly widespread among the 
III-2 
District’s major manufacturing sectors.  Some firms indicated that the increase in orders 
reflected inventory restocking by their customer s, and some firms noted that they were 
gaining new customers as competitors have gone out of business.  
Third District manufacturers forecast further gains, on balance. Among firms 
polled in August, slightly more than half expect new orders and shipments to increase 
during the next six months; less than one-ten th expect decreases. Although the number of 
firms expecting improvement has increased, most  expect gains to be slight. For example, 
one firm said that “improvement will be moderate” and another remarked that “future 
projections are positive but we have no idea when overall conditions will improve.” 
Capital spending plans among ar ea manufacturers remain rest rained. On balance, area 
firms plan just steady spending for new plan t and equipment during the next six months. 
Manufacturers cited a variety of reasons for holding back on expansion plans, including 
slack demand for their products, difficulty in obtaining financing, and concern about 
possible future tax increases or federally  legislated health insurance mandates. 
 Retail 
Third District retailers re ported a gradual rise in sa les for the back-to-school 
shopping period in August. Sales of youth appa rel were generally described as solid or 
strong, but sales of other lines of merchandise  remained soft. Merchants said consumers’ 
purchases have been “value-driven” and fo cused on immediate needs. Several retailers 
said consumers appeared to be cutting back  on purchases of other goods to pay for back-
to-school items. Most of the retailers contac ted for this report said  the late summer pace 
of overall sales has been belo w the sales rate during the same period last year. Third 
District retailers have mostly cautious vi ews of the near term. They do not expect 
significant improvement in sales in the final months of the year, and they are strictly 
limiting inventories. 
Third District auto dealers reported that the cash-for-clunkers program gave sales 
of new vehicles a strong boost in August compared with July, although sales for the 
month were below sales in August of last y ear. Dealers also said increased showroom 
traffic resulted in higher sale s in August than in July of vehicles not eligible for the 
program. The sales spurt redu ced dealers’ inventories significantly. Looking ahead, 
dealers said sales could slip as  a result of deplet ed inventories and th e end of the rebate 
III-3 
program, but they expect manufacturers to st ep up production and introduce incentives to 
maintain sales momentum. 
 
Finance 
Total outstanding loan volume at Third Di strict banks has been nearly level in 
recent weeks, according to bankers contacted fo r this report. There has been a small gain 
in consumer lending, but residential real es tate lending and business lending have eased 
slightly. Most of the bankers contacted for this  report said that demand for credit has been 
slack because both consumers and businesses are reluctant to add to indebtedness. 
However, some banks continued to tighten credit standards. One banker noted that “we 
are being more selective” in le nding, and posting slower loan growth as a result. Most of 
the banks contacted in August said that cred it quality continued to  deteriorate for all 
categories of lending. Bankers generally expect  demand for credit to remain weak in the 
near term as individuals remain focused on building up savings a nd businesses continue 
to reduce leverage.  
 
Real Estate and Construction 
Sales of existing homes in the Third District in July and August were fairly 
steady, according to local real estate agents. They generally  indicated that a seasonally 
higher rate of sales that began in the spri ng remained on track; however, the sales rate 
remained well below the pace set in the past few years. The increase in sales has been 
more robust in the lower price ranges in most  of the District, although agents in a few 
areas said there had been a recent upturn in  sales of higher-priced homes. Nonetheless, 
throughout the District selling prices continued to run well below the levels achieved in 
the past two to three years. Real estate agents generally indicated that they believe the market is stabilizing, but they do not expect  much strengthening in sales. One agent 
commented that “we’re just starting to see th e market turn around,” and another said “I 
don’t see a big upturn in the rest  of the year.”  Residential builders reported a slight 
increase in sales from July to August. One builder’s comment was representative of most 
others: “Traffic at our site s hasn’t increased, but the people who show up are more 
serious about buying.”  Builders believe cons umer confidence is improving, bolstering 
the rise in home purchases. However, they e xpect the increase to be gradual. According 
III-4 
to area real estate contacts, prices of existing homes have been mostly steady, while 
prices of new homes have firmed up slightly in the past few months.   
Nonresidential real estate firms indi cated that leasing and purchase activity 
continued to be slow and that vacancy rates continued to rise for office, industrial, and 
retail buildings. There has also  been an increase in subleas e space coming on the market.  
Rents have declined. Several contacts not ed that landlords have been focusing on 
maintaining occupancy and limiting rent de clines in the face of “stagnant” or 
“nonexistent” demand for new space.  Contacts al so indicated that comm ercial real estate 
financing remained very difficult as sec ondary markets show no signs of recovery. 
Contacts expect nonresidential real  estate leasing to remain w eak into next year, and they 
see no signs that construction will strengthen in the near future.  
 
Services 
Service-sector firms reported little cha nge in business conditions in August 
compared with July. In general, business serv ices firms indicated th at activity continued 
to be slow, although some that had reported declining activity earlier in the year said the slowdown appeared to be abating. Employment  agencies reported a recent increase in 
demand for temporary workers, but they sa id demand for permanent employees had not 
yet picked up. The region’s service-sector fi rms generally expect very slow improvement 
in business conditions du ring the rest of this year and next year.  
 Prices 
Reports on input costs and output prices have been mixed since the last Beige 
Book. Manufacturing firms noted some increases for the commodities they use, particularly metals and some other industria l materials. On balance, manufacturers have 
kept the prices of their own products steady. Retailers indicated that their cost of goods 
has been about steady, and they have kept se lling prices in check, as well. Auto dealers 
reported some firming in tran sactions prices during the cash-for-clunkers sales rush. 
Some home builders reported rising construction costs due to  increased local government 
permit fees.   
IV-1 
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
The economy in the Fourth District has shown a slight improvement since our last report, 
though activity remains sluggish.  Reports from factories indicated that pr oduction was flat to up 
slightly, with increases being attributed to ne w orders.  New home c onstruction remains weak, 
while nonresidential building activit y was mixed.  Credit av ailability continues to be an issue for 
residential and commercial contract ors.  Sales by District retailers were steady to down slightly.  
New motor vehicle sales received a substantia l boost from the cash-for-clunkers program, 
whereas purchases of used vehicles slowed.  Coal  production fell, with little change noted in oil 
and gas output.  Freight transport volume remains at low levels.  Commercial and industrial loan 
activity was stable to declining.  Consumer le nding was generally characterized as soft, with 
indirect auto lending as the only bright spot in the consumer por tfolio.  Core deposits increased 
across the District.    
Only modest employment declines were reported in commercial construction, banking, 
and coal mining.  Reports from staffing firms showed  that job openings were flat to up slightly.  
Given the weak labor market, wage pressures ar e contained.  Increased prices for metals and 
lumber have moderated somewhat since our last report.  Capital spending remains at low levels 
and little change is expected in the upcoming months.  
Manufacturing.  Reports from  District factories showed th at production was flat to up 
slightly during the past six weeks, with increases being attributed to new orders.  On a year-over-
year basis, factory output remains depressed.  However, the year-over-y ear difference in output 
between this and previous reporting cycles is sh rinking.  Half of our contacts expect demand will 
remain at low levels going into 2010.  While other contacts an ticipate some improvement going 
forward, they are not expecting a return to 2008 levels.  Most steel producers and service centers 
reported a slight pickup in shipping volume, whic h met or exceeded expectations.  While no end 
markets stood out as being particularly strong, a few contacts anticipate a pickup in the auto 
industry.  Our steel contacts expect current shippi ng trends to continue; ne vertheless, they do not 
expect a substantial tu rnaround through year’s end.   District auto production fell modestly during 
July on a month-over-month basis.   Production declines can be attributed, in part, to the 
aftermath of the GM and Chrysler bankruptcy pr oceedings and retooling for model changeovers.  
Production of both domestic  and foreign nameplate vehicles in the District remained well below 
year ago levels.      
Although capacity utilization remains below hi storic norms, several manufacturers noted 
improved utilization rates since our last report.  In  general, capital spending remains at low levels 
and little change is expected in the upcoming months.   Reports show that increases in raw 
material prices (especially for metals) were  beginning to moderate, though some upward 
IV-2 
pressure on product pricing continue s.  There were only minimal reports of further cuts in payroll 
costs through layoffs, wage reduc tions, and curtailments in work  hours.  Wage pressures are 
contained.  
Real Estate.  The residential construction industry re mains weak.  Builders reported little 
change in activity during the past six weeks; nonetheless, two of our contac ts said that sales are 
up on a year-over-year basis.  Foot  and Internet traffic was charac terized as stable or increasing 
slightly, and sales trends are expected to remain  at current levels or fall off slightly through 
year’s end.  Several builders told  us they would like to construct a few spec houses, but they are 
unable to obtain financing.  Sales of homes in  the entry-level price category are doing well, 
which contractors attributed to  the first-time home buyer tax cr edit.  Lumber prices have 
declined from their seasonal high, while concrete prices remain elevated.  General contractors 
continue to operate with skeleton crews, and s ubcontractors are available at competitive rates. 
Reports on nonresidential construction were mixed, with some improvement seen by 
contractors participating in public  works projects.  Activity in private commercial and industrial 
building was characterized as slow due to de clining inquiries and backlogs.  All of our 
respondents said that business has fallen on a ye ar-over-year basis.  Looking forward, most 
contacts expect construction activity will be very weak during 2010.  We  continued to hear 
numerous accounts of difficulties in obtaining fina ncing for private-sector projects.  On balance, 
little change in construction materials prices was noted.  A few genera l contractors reported 
laying off employees, while subcontr actors are readily available.   
Consumer Spending.  July sales for District retailers were steady to down slightly on a 
month-over-month basis and were lower than a y ear earlier.  Reports show that consumers 
continued to focus on purchasing necessities rather than discretionary items.  Retailers’ 
expectations for fourth-quarter  sales were decidedly mixed.  On balance, vendor and retail 
pricing has been stable.  A few retailers noted that they have  increased markdowns to move 
inventory.  Reports from auto deal ers indicated that, for the most part, new vehicle sales were up 
during July and early August due to the cash-for-cl unkers program.  Several dealers told us that 
sales equaled or were greater than those made in  July 2008.  However, we also heard reports of 
dealers not participating in the cash-for-clunkers program due to its complexities and delays in 
payments from the federal government.  The cash-for-clunkers program and higher prices were 
cited as reasons for a slowing in purchases of us ed vehicles.  Most deal ers are uncertain about 
future sales due to weak economic cond itions and difficulties in obtaining credit.   On balance, 
there has been little change in staffing le vels at retailers and auto dealers.   
Banking.   Demand for commercial and industrial loans was stable or declining, although 
a few community banks reported a continuing stream of business from refinancing loans that 
IV-3 
were turned away by regional bank s.  Interest rates and credit sp reads are either holding steady 
or increasing slightly.  On the consumer side, loan demand is be st characterized as soft, with 
interest rates holding steady for th e most part.  Indirect auto le nding (new and used) has been the 
only bright spot in the consumer portfolio.  Se veral bankers attributed part of the boost in 
indirect lending to the cash-for-clunkers program.  Residential mortgage applications have 
slowed considerably since the s econd quarter, and most applicatio ns are for refinancing.  Core 
deposits continued to grow acro ss the District.  Most bankers characterized loan applicants’ 
credit quality as good or improving, especially on the consumer side.  There continues to be a 
slight upward trend in delinquenc ies, with residential mortgages and consumer loans being the 
biggest contributors.  Higher lend ing standards remain firmly in place, with no easing expected.  
Staffing levels are stable or decreasing, but most reductions have occurred over time through 
controlled attrition. 
Energy.   Coal executives reported a sh arp decline in production, which they attributed to 
very weak demand from electric utilities.  One executive noted that a boost to domestic 
producers may come from the Chinese, who have begun to import coal.  Another executive said 
that contract prices for coal ha ve dropped 50 percent on a year-over-year basis.  Little change in 
oil and gas output was reported, though drilling activity has fallen off substantially or stopped.  
Spot prices for natural gas a nd oil continued to tr end downward.  Almost all of our energy 
contacts expect that production will remain flat or dec line further in the near future.   For the 
most part, the cost of production equipment and materials has fallen.   Capital spending by coal 
producers has been put on hold, while expenditure s by most oil and gas producers remain as 
projected.   Employment levels in the oil and gas i ndustry were largely st able, although coal 
executives reported workforce reductions and cuts in overtime.       
Transportation.  Freight transport executives reported that, for the most part, shipping 
volume has stabilized at low levels or continues to decline.  Any pickup cited was attributed to 
competitors exiting the market.  Shipping rate s remain very competitive.  Looking forward, a 
majority of our contacts expect slight increm ental improvements in volume, based on increases 
in auto production and spending on infrastructure  projects.  They also anticipate continuing 
downward pressure on shipping rates.  Several transport executives re ported having difficulty 
renewing or increasing their lines  of credit.  Capital spendi ng remains substantially below 
historic norms and is expected to remain at low levels for the next several months.  On the labor 
front, most hiring is limited to  driver turnover and a few management positions that opened due 
to attrition.  
 
  
V-1 
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview. While economic reports from Fifth District business contacts continued to indicate a 
relatively weak economy, continuing signs of improveme nt were apparent in many sectors. Manufacturers 
reported solid increases in shipments and new orde rs, while manufacturing employment stabilized. The 
rate of change in raw materials and finished goods prices also picked up a bit. Residential real estate 
agents across the Fifth District observed general impr ovement in home sales, particularly for low-to-
middle priced houses, but reported declines in house prices. Mortgage lenders mentioned a pickup in 
purchase loans that was concentrated  in low-to-middle tier homes. On the other hand, commercial real 
estate conditions softened further as leasing and sales activity remained weak and vacancy rates continued 
to rise. Demand for commercial lo ans remained subdued. Meanwhile, contacts at services firms noted a 
slight increase in revenues since our last report, wh ile retail firms reported falling sales. Contacts across 
the service sector observed contracting employment and wages.   Retail. The retail sector continued to struggle, although exceptions were also noted. Contacts at 
home and garden businesses, department stores, and re tail establishments said sales declined in recent 
weeks. In contrast, contacts reported some improvement  in sales at grocery stores, a few building supply 
retailers in South Carolina, and a discount chain depa rtment store in central North Carolina. Automobile 
dealers said the cash-for-clunkers program had increase d foot traffic and boosted sales, but most were 
uncertain about the sustainability of the increase. Two dealers told us that sales had risen so much across 
all lines of cars and light trucks that they were “scram bling” to rebuild inventory. However, dealers also 
complained that the delays in processing paperw ork had reduced their cash flows. Retail merchants 
around the District generally continued to reduce inve ntories and payrolls; they also reported an overall 
decline in average wages. The mode rate pace of increase in retail pri ces was little changed since our last 
report.  Services. Revenues at services firms grew slightly in recent weeks. Contacts at financial services 
firms told us that the improvement in the stock mark et had helped business. In addition, an executive at a 
central Virginia airport and executives at professional,  scientific, and technical services firms all reported 
higher revenues since our last report. Despite the recent uptick, most contacts at services-providing firms continued to cut the number of employees. A recruite r of technical professionals in central North Carolina 
said that he was receiving numerous resumes, but “companies are hiring slowly and selectively.” Wages 
at services businesses continued to decline while prices edged down slightly.   Manufacturing. District manufacturers reported that activity  continued to expand in late July and 
August. Contacts reported solid increases in shipments and new orders, and noted that employment stabilized after nearly two years of steady decline. A spark plug producer in West Virginia attributed a 
“huge increase in new orders” to the cash-for-clunkers program and indicated that his company expects to 
V-2 
see continued improvement. Similarly, a manufacturer of  automobile seat covers in North Carolina said 
that business had improved at his firm, and a machinery parts manufacturer in South Carolina observed a 
pickup in demand for automotive parts and compone nts. Moreover, an aerospace and broadcasting 
equipment producer in Virginia mentioned an upturn in new orders, which he attributed to increased 
federal government spending on space and missile defense coupled with heightened demand for commercial satellite-based services. Contacts indicated th at both raw materials and finished goods prices 
increased at a somewhat quicker pace than in our last report.   
 Activity at District ports generally improved in recent weeks, but remained notably below year-
ago levels. Contacts noted an increase in both auto impor ts and exports in July, as well as strengthening in 
certain niche products such as power generators. Howeve r, port officials stated that retail imports for the 
holiday shopping season were down from the previous year, and that several ship lines had recently 
consolidated service routes or reduced vessel capacity. 
 Finance. Residential mortgage lenders reported sl ow but steady activity in recent weeks. 
Contacts noted a pickup in new mortgages, while demand for refinances continued to dwindle. Purchase 
loans were generally for lower-end homes, although so me lenders reported an increase in loans for 
middle-tier homes. Credit standards at a number of Di strict institutions were unchanged, while other 
institutions tightened guidelines further, increased sc rutiny on appraisals, and allowed for “less leniency 
in gray areas.” On the commercial front, recent lendi ng activity was on pace with June and early July. 
Contacts noted that demand remained soft, with companies hesitant to make capital expenditures and take on additional debt. Loan terms and c onditions continued to tighten at so me institutions; others reported no 
recent changes and expressed a “growing appetite” to  lend to good-quality cust omers. Credit quality of 
existing clients deteriorated further since our last re port, although lenders noted the pace of deterioration 
had abated somewhat.      Real Estate. Residential real estate agents repor ted generally improved housing market 
conditions in recent weeks. Realtors in Washingt on, D.C., Fairfax, Va., and Richmond, Va., reported 
increased sales since our last report, with the Richmo nd agent adding that first-time homebuyers and the 
expiring federal tax credit were driving the increase in his market. Agents in North and South Carolina also reported generally improved ho using markets. In Greenville, S.C., a contact reported a “nice surge” 
in sales, and increased foreclosure sales fueled activ ity in the Greensboro, N. C., market. While the low-
to-middle priced houses sold the fastest overall, contacts in Richmond and Washington, D.C., reported 
increased house sales in the higher price brackets as we ll. House prices decreased  across much of the 
District, which an agent in Asheville, N.C., “hoped” would help to reduce inventory in his market. 
 In commercial real estate, leasing activity rema ined weak. Agents reported that deals were 
continuing to be completed, but clients were slow to make decisions. Effective rental rates softened 
further in recent weeks and asking rates began to decline in the Raleigh, N.C., market. Concessions – 
V-3 
particularly free rent – remained prevalent through out the District, although tenant improvements were 
less common as landlords reportedly sought to conserve cash. Vacancy rates climbed higher across office, 
industrial, and retail space in most District markets,  while the amount of available office sublease space 
remained fairly steady since our last report. On th e sales side, very little activity was reported in recent 
weeks. Contacts reiterated that ti ght credit conditions were dampening sales prospects. Sales price trends 
were difficult to detect in most markets due to a lack of activity, although prices did reportedly edge 
lower in Richmond, Va., and Charlotte, N.C. Reports of commercial foreclosures were generally scarce, 
although agents in Washington, D.C., Richmond, Ra leigh, and Charlotte reported a few instances of 
clients “turning in keys.”  Tourism. Tourist activity was generally stronger since our last report. Along the coast, contacts 
from Virginia Beach, Va., Myrtle Beach, S.C., and th e Outer Banks of North Carolina all noticed an 
increase in occupancy rates. An hotelier in Virginia Beach told us that they were having an “amazing 
summer” with 99 percent occupancy, while a contact from Myrtle Beach attributed his increased 
bookings to continued discounting and aggressive packaging. In contrast, the contact on the Outer Banks 
of North Carolina reported little discounting at hotels and motels, but noted huge markdowns for rentals. 
Tourist activity at mountain resorts varied. A manager at a mountain lodge in Virginia reported stronger 
bookings compared to our last report and to a year ago, and credited the increase to families “staying 
regional.” In contrast, a respondent at a mountain resort  in West Virginia reported a 10 percent decline in 
bookings, noting a very wet summer with record-breaking rainfall.  
 Temporary Employment. Agents at temporary employment offices continued to report 
generally sluggish demand for workers since our last report. A contact in Hagerstown, Md., described 
demand as “very weak,” adding that he did not expect much improvement over the next several weeks. 
Several contacts, however, noted some improvement and were optimistic  about demand over the next few 
weeks due to the improving economy and an increase in  manufacturing orders. In addition to machine 
operators, experienced supervisors and administrative staff, workers most in demand included those in 
sales, IT, and other technical disciplines.  
 Agriculture. Agricultural conditions were mixed since our last report. In South Carolina, 
climatologists indicated that some areas of the stat e approached drought-like conditions, and analysts in 
North Carolina and West Virginia reported that some  places were still in need of rain. In other areas 
however, widespread rainfall significantly improved fiel d crops and hayfields. In Maryland and Virginia, 
the vegetable harvest was underway and the peach harvest was nearing completion in South Carolina. Moreover, the soybean crops in Maryland and Sout h Carolina were reported to  be in good condition. 
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Sixth District business contacts in several industries reported signs of 
stabilization in economic activ ity through August.  Retail me rchandise and tourism-related 
spending was described as being little-changed.  However, auto industry contacts cited a sharp 
increase in sales as a result of the cash-for-clunk ers program.  Reports from  real estate contacts 
indicated that the pace of decline in home sales continued to moderate in most areas compared 
with the same time a year earlier, while Florida Realtors noted continued sales gains from very 
low levels. The inventory of unsold homes remain s elevated, in part because of the continuing 
supply of foreclosed properties, and this is said to be k eeping downward pressure on home 
prices.  Commercial real estate activity softened further as vacancy rates rose, rents declined, and 
more projects were delayed.  Manufacturing activity continued to improve as reports of new 
orders and production levels increased. Banking contacts reported that credit availability 
remained tight. The pace of layoffs broadly slowed, but few contacts outside of temporary staffing noted any plans to expand payrolls in the near term. Pri ces remained generally stable. 
Most business contacts reported th at they had no plans to hike prices or raise wages in the 
current environment. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  A majority of District retailers cited that sales and 
traffic continued to remain moderately below ye ar-ago levels, and this was largely in line with 
their expectations. Most retailers mentioned that they had ad justed inventories to lower levels 
that were in line with expected sales.  The outlook among merchants remained largely unenthusiastic with regard to a near-term upturn in retail sales. 
Auto dealers from across the District i ndicated that the cash-for-clunkers program 
significantly helped stimulate traffic and sales from late Ju ly to mid-August. Many dealerships 
reported that the demand for fuel-efficient vehi cles outpaced availability. Many also noted 
concern over the sustainability of the recent pace of sales now that the cash-for-clunkers program 
has ended.  
According to most hospitality industry contacts, travel-related spending remained 
sluggish in most parts of the re gion.  Hotel reservations were dow n for both leisure and business-
related travel, with bookings supported by aggres sive discounting.  Most  industry contacts 
reported lower revenues, and reduced profit margin s. They generally expect subdued activity to 
persist over the next few months.   
VI-2 
Real Estate and Construction.   Reports from most Distri ct homebuilder and Realtor 
contacts indicated that the pace of  decline in home sales continued to moderate in July and early 
August from a year earlier. In Florida contacts  actually experienced year-over-year gains in 
sales, particularly for existing homes.  Howeve r, downward pressure on home prices persisted. 
Both Realtors and homebuilders noted that increase s in supply because of foreclosures and short-
sales were partially responsible for the pric e declines even as sales increased. Georgia 
homebuilders also cited difficulty competing with  foreclosed home prices.  Demand for starter 
homes remained relatively strong across the regi on and a pickup in sales of mid-market homes 
was also noted in some areas.  The majority of  homebuilders and contractors reported that new 
home construction remained at very low levels .   The outlook among both builders and Realtors 
continued to rebound, with the majority antici pating positive year-over-year sales growth over 
the next several months. 
Commercial real estate activity continued to  trend lower since last reported.  Most 
contacts characterized activity as weakening.  Vacancy rates increased further, with greater 
downward pressure on rents noted among contacts. Developers also  continued to report fewer 
projects in the pipeline overall , and delays in existing work.  However, contacts in Alabama and 
the Mississippi coast did note some projects th at had been on hold have recently moved ahead. 
Most contractors continued to anticipate that the level of commercial construction will continue 
to decline into 2010. Similarly, commercial Real tors anticipate continuing weak demand for 
existing space – particularly in the office sector.   
Manufacturing and Transportation.   Several manufacturing contacts noted increases 
in new orders and production levels. In particul ar, auto plants throughout the region reported a 
sharp rise in production. Most manufacturers indicated that thei r outlook for future production 
and sales improved. However, most contacts also anticipated that employment would likely 
remain at low levels, with any extra demand absorbed using existing staff.  
Trucking contacts reported that most regiona l companies are continuing to experience 
weak freight demand, lower revenues, and excess trucking capacity. However, year-over-year declines in rail shipments of metal ores, scrap metals, and chemicals were said to have moderated in July and early August.  
Banking and Finance.   Banking contacts continued to remark that credit availability 
remained tight.  Several reports me ntioned that the commercial real estate market continued to be 
affected by tighter lending standa rds. Banks were cited as remain ing cautious on loan approvals, 
VI-3 
subjecting borrowers to increased equity require ments, continued scrutiny of appraisals, and 
generally applying stricter  credit standards.   
Employment and Prices.   District business contacts not ed that the pace of layoffs 
decelerated in July and August. But few contact s noted any plans to increase payrolls. Some 
employment services contacts reported a modest increase in placements, however.  Few reports 
cited any pressure to raise wages. 
Construction and manufacturing firms reporte d that raw material prices had generally 
moderated by mid-August after having increased in  late spring. Most business contacts also 
noted that they were unsuccessful in attempts  to pass on any increased input costs to their 
customers. District retailers reported that retail prices remained stable relative to year-earlier 
levels. 
Natural Resources and Agriculture.   Drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico continued 
to decline in July and August, w ith the number of rigs in opera tion almost 50 percent lower than 
a year earlier.  Crude oil and ga soline inventories in the Sixth District rema ined well above their 
seasonal averages, with declines in drilling a nd refining only partially offsetting weakness in 
domestic energy consumption. 
Most District farms benefited from precip itation that improved soil moisture conditions. 
However, weak domestic and international de mand continued to trouble the near-term outlook 
for the region’s cotton and poultry industries.  
VII-1 
 
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  The decline in economic activity in the Seventh Dist rict leveled off in July 
and August. Contacts generally ag reed that activity had stabili zed at a low level, and were 
cautiously optimistic for a recovery over the remainder 2009. Overall, consumer spending 
increased from the previous reporting period, an d the decline in business spending slowed. 
Manufacturing and construction remained at low levels, although both sect ors showed signs of 
improvement. The pace of job loss slowed, and credit conditions improved. General price and 
wage pressures were minimal, and agri cultural prices retreated further.  
Consumer spending .  Overall consumer spending increased in July and August. New 
auto sales were strong in large part due to cash-for-clunkers with Illinois among the top five 
states to make use of the program. Greater showroom  traffic also led to an increase in sales of 
used autos. Some contacts indicated that the program created demand th at otherwise would not 
have existed, while others suggested that it had simply pulled forward demand. Several 
dealerships suspended their part icipation in the government program over concerns about the 
slow rate of reimbursement. Inventories of all qualifying vehicle segmen ts were significantly 
reduced to low, but comfortable levels. Retail sales excluding autos decreased slightly from the 
previous reporting period. Consumers continued to spend on essentials like health and personal 
care items, but sales of big-ticket items such as electronics, appliances, and furniture remained 
weak. Retailers also reported planning to mainta in low inventories as they expected spending to 
continue to be weak. 
Business spending.  The decline in business spending slowed in July and August. 
Inventory reductions ebbed. Firms remained cost-conscious, limiting spending and hiring. 
Several contacts indicated that low levels of working financial capital along with tight credit 
markets would continue to constrain busine ss investment. In addi tion, contacts in the 
manufacturing sector expressed reservations about how quickly they could increase production 
when conditions warranted given the degree to which they had cut back on workforces. Labor market conditions continued to be weak. Hi ring was limited outside of healthcare and 
information technology. However, the rate of j ob loss slowed, and not as many contacts noted 
layoffs or reducing hours this reporting period. In addition, a large staffing firm indicated that 
billable hours had increased in recent weeks. In the auto industry, several contacts reported 
bringing back previously laid off workers as we ll as increasing hours or  the number of shifts. 
However, some contacts questioned the sustainability of this ramp-up. 
VII-2 
 
Construction/real estate .  Overall, construction activity in  the District remained weak in 
July and August. Residential construction increa sed from the previous reporting period, with 
builders indicating cancellations had declined and contract signings had increased. However, the 
level of activity remained low with housing inve ntories elevated (but coming down) and credit 
still tight for developers. Single- family home sales increased and prices stabilized. In contrast, 
significant reductions in condo prices were reporte d. The availability of financing continued to 
be a concern for potential condo buyers. Contac ts also noted that many unsold condos were 
being converted to apartments, putting downwar d pressure on residential rents. Private 
nonresidential development and construction were weak. Contact s were concerned about sharp 
declines in commercial real estate prices, elev ated vacancy rates, and the rising inventory of 
buildings for sale, all of which contributed to a decline in commercial rents. Commercial real 
estate developers also noted the limited availabil ity of credit. Contacts indicated that the fiscal 
stimulus program was having a limited impact on public construction with the exception of road 
building and repair. 
Manufacturing .  The decline in manufacturing activity in the District flattened out in 
July and August. Overall activity remained low, but  contacts noted an increase in orders. It was 
unclear, however, the degree to which orders were increasing due to a sustained increase in final 
demand or the need to replenish lean inventorie s. For instance, a chemical manufacturer reported 
that orders had been rising for several months and that this in crease was more indicative of a 
broad-based recovery in demand. On the other hand, a contact in the steel industry said that 
increased activity stemmed mostly from lean service center inventorie s, with final demand 
expected to increase only gradually through th e rest of 2009. More generally, other metals-
related manufacturers indicated weak, but firming activity. Automakers reported plans to 
increase production and automotive suppliers sa w this showing through in higher orders. Power 
generation, medical devices, and pharmaceuticals all remained bright spots for manufacturing. 
Furthermore, exports to Asia, Me xico, and Europe were reported to have increased. In contrast, 
heavy equipment manufacturers continued to struggle, as did manuf acturers with ties to 
residential housing. Demand for heavy and medium dut y trucks also remained low, with contacts 
noting that excess capacity combined with upcom ing EPA regulations had resulted in greater 
demand for used equipment.  
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions in the District improved from the previous reporting 
period. There was a general improvement in the cost  and availability of cr edit for businesses and 
consumers. Demand for auto loans increased considerably with the rise in sales. Consumer loan 
VII-3 
 
quality improved further, with the exception of home equity loans. A contact noted, however, 
that consumer bankruptcies conti nued to increase. Banking contacts indicated that the number of 
creditworthy borrowers had increased, and in re sponse they were making credit more available 
than in recent months. In addition, a contact noted that even though Treasury yields had risen, 
borrowing costs for a number of area corporatio ns had declined as cr edit spreads had narrowed 
considerably. Contacts in banking also reported less deterioration in loan quality. Commercial 
real estate was an exception and remained a so urce of concern with many loans coming due for 
refinancing in 2010. A contact noted that his bank had been aggr essively pursuing modifications 
of these loans to avoid potential problems in  the future. In additi on, credit conditions for 
agriculture deteriorated.  
Prices/costs .  Price pressures were not signifi cant on balance in July and August. 
Contacts reported increases in several metals pric es including steel, copper,  and nickel as well as 
higher rail freight shipping costs. In contrast, utility costs softened  a bit, and the price of natural 
gas remained very low. A contact indicated that  cooler weather in the Midwest, a surplus of 
stored gas, and a mild hurricane season all suggested th at natural gas prices would remain low. 
Contacts also noted continued declines in food and paper prices, and retailers reported that 
wholesale prices were still low. Wage pre ssures were not signif icant, although downward 
pressure on non-wage pay and benefits was subs iding. Pass-through of wage and price pressures 
to downstream prices was minimal as contacts  indicated pricing power remained limited.   
Agriculture .  The conditions of the District’s corn  and soybean crops were about the 
same as a year ago. Cool temperatures slowed maturation and both crops continued to trail the 
pace of normal development. However, in most of  the District there is adequate moisture to 
produce strong yields. However, contacts were  concerned about dise ased soybeans cutting 
yields. Corn and soybean prices decreased fu rther during the reporting period, although soybean 
prices recovered some in August. With the draw down of stocks before the upcoming harvest, the 
premium on old over new crop forward contracts increased. Hog prices declined, heightening 
pressure to renegotiate long-term contracts. Dairy prices received support from the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture. A source reported that with prices remaining insufficient to cover 
costs for many producers the livestock industry wa s getting “killed.” Margins moved up in the 
ethanol industry due to lower i nput costs. With agricultural income down a lot from last year, 
operating budgets were tighter.  
  
   VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Eighth District remain ed weak, but the pace of decline has moderated 
since our previous report.  Both manufacturing and services activity contracted at a slower pace.  Retail 
and auto sales in July and the first part of August were down from a year ago.  Residential and 
commercial real estate markets conditions continue to be weak.  Overall lending activity at a sample of 
large District banks decreased moderately in the three-month period ending in July. 
Consumer  Spending 
Contacts reported that retail sales in July and th e first part of August we re down, on average, over 
year-earlier levels.  About 58 percent of the retaile rs surveyed saw decrease s in sales, 33 percent saw 
increases, and 8 percent saw no change.  About 37 per cent of respondents reported that sales levels met 
their expectations, 42 percent reported that sales we re below expectations, a nd 21 percent reported that 
sales were above expectations.  Lawn and garden products and less-expensive items were strong sellers, 
while apparel and big-ticket items moved more slow ly.  About 46 percent of the contacts noted that 
inventories were at desired levels, 42 percent repor ted too-high inventories, and 12 percent reported too-
low inventories.  About 46 percent of the retailers expect sales for September and October to increase over 2008 levels, 46 percent expect sales to decrease,  and 8 percent expect sales to be unchanged. 
Car dealers in the District reported that, compared with last year, sal es in July and the first part of 
August were down slightly, on average.  One-third of the car dealers surveyed reported large decreases in 
sales, one-third reported increases in sales (mostly a ttributed to the cash-for-clunkers program), and the 
remaining one-third reported no change  in sales.  About 37 percent of the car dealers noted that new car 
sales had increased relative to used car sales, while 25 percent reported the opposite.  Also, 33 percent 
reported an increase in low-end vehicle sales relativ e to high-end vehicle sales, while 8 percent reported 
the opposite.  About 46 percent reported more rejecti ons of finance applications, but 12 percent reported 
more acceptances.  Two-thirds of the car dealers surv eyed reported that their inventories were too low, 
   VIII-2 
while 12 percent reported that their inventories were too high.  About 46 percent of the car dealers expect 
sales for September and October to increase over 2008 leve ls, 37 percent expect sales to decrease, and the 
remaining 17 percent expect sales to be unchanged. 
Manufacturing  and Other Business  Activity 
Manufacturing activity continued to decline since our previous survey, but at a slower pace.  
Some contacts in petroleum refine ries/coal manufacturing reported an  increase in production and opened 
new facilities.  One firm in chemical product manufacturing announced plans to upgrade existing 
facilities and hire new workers.  Some firms in furniture manufacturing and rubber tire manufacturing 
reported plans to hire additional workers.  In cont rast, contacts in the animal slaughtering/processing, 
tobacco, household appliance, rubber products, trans portation, and machinery manufacturing industries 
reported plans to lay off workers and decrease operati ons.  A firm in auto parts manufacturing announced 
that it will close a plant in the District, while another auto parts manufacturing firm announced plans to lay off employees. 
The District's service sector continue d to decline in most areas, but at a slower pace.  Contacts in 
business support services and social services reported plans to close facilities and lay off workers.  In contrast, government service jobs continued to be  added because of the fiscal stimulus plan.  
Real Estate and Construction  
Home sales continued to decline throughout the Ei ghth District.  Compared  with the same period 
in 2008, July 2009 year-to-date home sales were down 8 percent in St. Louis, 12 percent in Little Rock, 
13 percent in Louisville, and 15 percent in Memphis.  Residential construction also continued to decline 
throughout most of the District; 2009 year-to-date si ngle-family housing permits fell in most District 
metro areas compared with the same period in 2008.   Permits declined 19 percent in Little Rock, 28 
percent in St. Louis, 30 percent in Louisville, and 49 percent in Memphis.  
Conditions in the commercial a nd industrial real estate market s were mixed throughout the 
District.  Compared with the first quarter of 2009, second-quarter 2009 industrial vacancy rates increased 
   VIII-3 
in Little Rock, Louisville, and Memphis and decreased in St. Louis.  During the same period, suburban 
office vacancy rates increased in L ittle Rock and Louisville and decreased in Memphis and St. Louis.  
Downtown office vacancy rates remained fairly constant in St . Louis, increased in Louisville and 
Memphis, and decreased in Little Rock.  Commercial and industrial construction markets continued to 
decline.  One contact in Memphis reported that new commercial construction is minimal.  A contact in 
Louisville does not expect nonresidentia l construction to improve until 2011.  
Banking and Finance 
A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks show ed a moderate decrease 
in overall lending activity for the three-month period e nding in July.  Credit standards for commercial and 
industrial loans were somewhat tighter for both large and small firms, while demand for these loans was 
moderately weaker.  Credit standards for commercial real estate loans were also somewhat tighter, while 
demand for these loans was moderately weaker.  Meanwhile, credit standards for consumer loans were basically unchanged, while demand for these loans w as mixed, ranging from moderately weaker to 
moderately stronger.  Credit standards for prime residential mortgage loans remained basically unchanged, while credit standards for nontraditional residential loans tightened.  Demand for all types of 
residential loans ranged from about the same to stronger. 
Agriculture  and Natural Resources  
The overall condition of the corn, soybeans, rice, cotton, and sorghum crops in the District has 
improved slightly: No more than 10 percent of each  crop obtained a rating of poor.  As of August 1, 
yields for most of the major crops in each District state were expected to be at least 94 percent of last 
year’s yields, although sorghum yields and winter wh eat yields were expected to be 84 percent and 80 
percent of last year’s yields, respectively.  Since our previous report, soil moisture ratings and pasture 
conditions have improved in most District states. 
   IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
Overall economic activity in the Ninth District  was flat since the last report. Modest 
decreases in activity occurred in  consumer spending, agriculture, and commercial real estate and 
construction. Tourism was mixed, while activity in services and residentia l construction was flat. 
The manufacturing, energy, mining and residential r eal estate sectors saw moderate increases. 
Labor markets were mixed, and wage increases were  subdued. Prices remain ed relatively stable 
since the last report. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Overall retail spending remained soft, except fo r auto sales, which were boosted by the cash-for-
clunkers program. A major Minneapolis-based reta iler reported that same-store sales in July 
were down 7 percent compared with a year earlier.  Same-store sales at two Minneapolis area malls were down 4 percent and 8 percent, respec tively, compared with last year. A Minnesota-
based bed retailer reported that same store sales edged up in Ju ly, but the slight growth was 
supported by a number of closings of lower-perfo rming stores during the past year. In addition, 
contacts noted back-to-school shoppers were focusing on value.   
The cash-for-clunkers program jump-started  auto sales across the District. A 
representative of an auto dealers association in North Dakota reported that most recent activity at 
showrooms was associated with the program. Auto inventories were low in Minnesota as a result 
of rebate-driven sales, accordi ng to a representative  of an auto dealers association. Contacts 
noted some concern about the program’s impact on future sales—that the incentives drove sales 
that would have occurred in the fall  into a condensed period of time.  
Tourism was mixed, as visitor numbers were solid, but spending was soft in some areas. 
The number of visitors in July to Yellowstone National Park was up 11 percent compared with a 
year ago; however, spending at nearby restaurants and retail stores has been  slow. Visits to 
attractions and overall highway traffic were up about 10 percent compared with a year ago in 
western South Dakota, while bus iness at hotels was flat, accor ding to a tourism official.  
Services 
Overall activity was flat in the professional business services sector . Contacts who provide 
professional services to the commer cial real estate sector noted a downturn in business. Architects 
reported extremely low activity levels—the same as the last report. Contacts from the legal sector 
also reported that activity wa s the same, but many customers were asking for lower fees.  
Professional services firms that support the health  care and government sect ors noted an uptick in 
activity. 
   IX-2 
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction activity mostly decrea sed, with some bright spots noted in public 
construction projects. Few office, retail or indus trial projects were under way. However, road 
construction was strong throughout the District. Runway reconstr uction was in progress at the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul airport. Re sidential construction was stable at low levels. July building 
permits were about even with a year earlier in  Rochester, Minn., and Sioux Falls, S.D.; however, 
the value of permitted units fell 46 percent in Minneapolis-St. Paul.   Commercial real estate was weak. Accordi ng to a commercial real estate firm in 
Minneapolis-St. Paul, retail vacancy reached its highest level on record; industrial absorption 
was at record lows. A commercial broker in Fargo, N.D., said market activity there was stable 
though slightly lower than in recent years. Residential real estate showed continued 
improvement. July home sales in Minneapolis-St. Paul were up 16 percent from a year earlier, 
but median sale prices were down 18 percent. Home sales also increased in Duluth, Minn.; 
however, they decreased in Sioux Falls, S.D., and Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Meanwhile, 
sales of vacation properties were down signifi cantly from last year across the District, 
particularly in western Montana. 
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing activity was up slig htly. A July survey of purchasing managers by Creighton 
University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated that manuf acturing production was flat in Minnesota but 
increased in the Dakotas. A Minnesota plastic  injection company e xpanded production, and an 
auto assembly plant plans to expand output. In Montana, a bridge parts maker is building a 
factory. A seed oil processing plant is planne d in North Dakota.  A South Dakota generator 
component producer plans to open a new facility. 
 Energy and Mining 
Activity in the energy and mining sectors increase d slightly. Mid-August o il and gas exploration 
edged up from early July. An oil services compa ny is building a facility in North Dakota. Two 
large wind energy projects were approved in Nort h Dakota. Due to increased demand, an iron ore 
mine in northern Minnesota plans to start up three previously id led production lines.  
Agriculture 
Agricultural conditions declined since the last report. Results of the Minneapolis Fed’s second-
quarter (July) survey of agricultural credit c onditions indicated that lenders expect overall 
   IX-3 
agricultural income and spending to decrease in  the third quarter. Due to wet weather, the 
Montana wheat harvest is behind schedule. Farmer s are nervous about an early frost, as the 
progress for the District corn a nd soybean crops is behind its five -year average pace. The western 
part of the District experienced scattered gras shopper infestations, and parts of northwestern 
Wisconsin were in severe drought. 
Employment, Wages and Prices 
Overall labor markets were mixed. In Minnesota a defense contractor laid off over 300 workers, a 
boat manufacturing plant also cut over 300 workers, about half of its labor force, and a medical 
device manufacturer announced plan s to reduce staff by 200 companywide. A meatpacker in South 
Dakota laid off 30 workers. Competition for s easonal work was much greater this summer 
compared with a year ago in many areas of the District.  
In contrast, month-to-month gains in employment were reco rded in Minnesota, Montana 
and South Dakota during July. Federal economic stimulus funds have created a number of road construction jobs. For example, the state of Montana estimated that stimulus spending created 
140 jobs by the end of July, which does not includ e any indirect jobs at businesses that provide 
goods and services to construction projects a nd construction workers. In North Dakota, 120 
workers will be added to a coal-fired power pl ant construction project during late August and 
September. 
 Wage increases were subdued. For example, the state of Montana has frozen wages for 
two years. Several architectural firms reported decreased employee compensation. 
Prices remained relatively stable since the last report. Minnesota gasoline prices were 
only slightly higher at the end of August comp ared with early July, but were $1.15 per gallon 
lower than a year ago. Tuition will increase about 5 percent this fall at Minnesota state colleges 
and universities; federal stimulus  dollars will cover 2 percentage points of that increase. Metal 
prices increased a tad during July, but remained mostly level during the month of August; metal 
product prices were well below year-ago levels. 
X-1 
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy generally held steady in late July and August. Consumer 
spending was supported by seasonal and automotiv e incentives, while restaurant and hotel 
spending was subdued. The manufacturing sector held steady and plant managers expected a 
modest rise in production in coming months. Re sidential real estate activity softened and 
commercial real estate contact s indicated market conditions  remained fragile. Banking 
conditions remained tepid partly due to mode rately declining loan demand and a negative 
outlook for loan quality. Activity in the energy sector  stabilized with a sli ght rise in the number 
of active drilling rigs. Falling grain prices and weak livestock exports put downward pressure on 
agricultural profits. Even though in put prices were expected to rise, producers di d not anticipate 
passing additional costs through to retail prices . Wage pressures remained low and few firms 
planned to hire new workers.  
Consumer Spending.  Consumer activity since the la st survey period was generally 
stable. Retail sales were supported by consum er purchases of seasonal products, especially 
apparel, during the back-to-school season. Increased customer traffi c led some District retailers 
to expect a rise in sales. Au to dealers reported that the cash -for-clunkers program, along with 
other dealer incentives, stimulated  sales of new, fuel efficient car s, but hindered used car sales. 
Still, vehicle inventory levels declined. In addition, fewer dealers reported difficulty accessing 
credit. Restaurants reported weaker sales partly due to a decline in average check size. Tourism 
spending remained solid but was expected to wane as the vacation season ends. Even though 
hotel occupancy rates have fallen, aver age daily room rates rose slightly. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.  Since late July, activity in the 
manufacturing sector was mostly flat, while activ ity in the transportation and high-tech sectors 
strengthened. Durable goods production dropped while non-durable goods production held 
steady. After further inventory reductions, manufact urers expected production to strengthen in 
coming months. In addition, plant managers antic ipated current employment levels would hold 
and capital spending would remain stable. Se veral transportation contacts noted improved 
X-2 
activity partly from an uptick in raw material shipments. Technology-related firms reported 
stronger sales, supported by federal governme nt contracts and stimulus spending. Some 
manufacturing and transportation contacts felt input price increas es could trim profit margins 
because of limited opportunities to  pass through additional costs.  
Real Estate and Construction.  After strengthening in the last survey period, the 
residential real estate market softened, while co mmercial real estate conditions weakened further. 
While residential real estate agents noted in creased buyer traffic, building suppliers reported 
slower sales to builders for new home construction. Demand remained weak for high-end 
properties, although the first tim e homebuyer tax credit boosted sales of entry-level homes. 
Following seasonal trends, home in ventory levels were expected  to rise in coming months. 
Mortgage activity slowed, largely due to a dr op in refinancings. Comm ercial real estate 
conditions continued to erode, with reductions in completions  and construction underway.  
Vacancy rates were little change d since the last survey period, but remained well above year-ago 
levels. Absorption rates declined further, placi ng additional downward pre ssure on rents.  Access 
to credit remained tight. District contacts were concerned that lower commercial real estate 
values would hinder upcoming loan renewal and refinancing activity. 
Banking.  Bankers reported weaker loan demand,  increased deposits, and a continued 
negative outlook for loan quality. Overall loan dema nd declined at a slightly faster pace than in 
the previous survey. Demand fo r commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate 
loans fell moderately, while demand for consumer installment loans continued to edge 
downward. Bankers also reported lower demand for re sidential real estate loans for the first time 
since late last year. Some banks continued to tighten credit standards on commercial real estate 
loans, but credit standards for other loan categories were little changed. Loan quality remained 
substantially lower than a year  ago, and about half of respondents expected loan quality to 
decline further over the next six months. Deposits rose moderately after s howing little change in 
the previous survey.  
Energy.  Energy activity stabilized in late July  and August. After s ubstantial declines 
during the last year, the number of active drilling rigs in the Di strict rose slightly. Drilling 
X-3 
activity was expected to hold stea dy in coming months due to ample oil and natural gas supplies, 
subdued demand, and limited availability of fina ncing for exploration. Though some natural gas 
producers expected prices to rise as the winter heating season appr oached, others felt high 
inventory levels would restrain price increases.  Wyoming coal production rose during the survey 
period but remained below year-ago levels. Ethanol profit margins stabilized with higher crude 
oil prices and lower corn costs. 
Agriculture.  While agricultural growing conditions remained positive, income 
projections weakened slightly si nce the last survey period. Favor able growing conditions and an 
upward revision to crop estimates contributed to a decline in co rn and soybean prices, trimming 
expected profits for producers. Despite a slight  improvement in fed cattle prices, an extended 
period of negative profit margin s coupled with declining cattle  inventories prompted some 
feedlot consolidations. Income  losses steepened for hog producers amid sluggish domestic and 
foreign demand for pork products. Farmland values  stabilized at or above year-ago levels. 
Demand for non-real estate farm loans rose, and the rate of loan repayments declined. Fewer 
District contacts reported that co llateral requirements remained elev ated, and farm interest rates 
were little changed. 
Wages and Prices. Producer prices generally held steady while consumer prices eased, 
and soft labor markets kept wage pressures lo w. Though manufacturers repor ted that input prices 
leveled off since the last survey period, some plan t managers anticipated an increase in the cost 
of raw materials, especially fuel and steel. Stil l, most firms did not plan to raise prices on 
finished goods. Builders noted higher costs for petroleum-based materials such as roofing 
shingles, and transportation industry contacts also commented on rising oil prices. Retailers 
continued to discount prices and anticipated further price reducti ons, while restaurants held menu 
prices steady. Few contacts reporte d difficulty hiring workers, and the majority of firms did not 
plan to raise wages.  
   XI-1 
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS    
 Economic activity in the Eleventh District fi rmed somewhat over the past six weeks, with 
contacts in several industries suggesting a pic kup in demand.  Despite the slight improvement, 
several contacts expressed disappointment that conditions had not improved more. While 
outlooks are less gloomy than earlier in the year , most contacts are he sitant to predict a 
significant turnaround in the near term.   Prices   Excess capacity in many industries kept a lid on price pressure s. Most contacts 
said prices were holding steady although a fe w noted continued decl ines, as firms make 
concessions in order to get busin ess. Raw materials prices were mostly stable, but contacts noted 
higher fuel costs continue to squeeze margin s. There were reports by metals producers and 
construction industry contacts that prices for steel and aluminum were ticking up.   
 Crude oil prices strengthened in late July  and have remained near $70 per barrel since 
then. Gasoline prices rose by about 10 cents a gallon during the reporting period and diesel was 
up 15 cents per gallon. Natural gas prices moved up to over $4 per Mcf in early August but more 
recently fell under $3 per Mcf for the first time si nce 2002. Historically high inventory levels are 
putting downward pressure on natural gas prices.   Labor Market   Employment levels remained steady overall as most respondents have 
already right-sized their staff leve ls. Some said they prefer to work current employees overtime, 
rather than hire new workers, only to let them go if conditions worsen. Staffing firms noted a slight improvement in demand, and there were re ports from high-tech an d paper respondents that 
temporary hiring had edged up. In contrast, consolid ation in the airline, residential construction 
and energy industries led to furt her reductions in headcounts. Wa ges remain unchanged and there 
are no signs of upward pressure. Firms continue to  institute wage and hiring freezes, and there 
were additional reports of freezes on company 401(k) contributions.  
 Manufacturing   Construction-related manufacturer s said orders held steady at 
extremely low levels. A few respondents noted disappointment that pr ior expectations of 
recovery had not been met. There has been a sluggish start to the “shovel-ready” projects 
covered under the stimulus plan, and funding has been slow to material ize. Most contacts 
expressed uncertainty in their outlooks as both residential and commercial construction activity 
remain depressed, and there is little evidence th at conditions will improve in the near-term.   
 Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said orders increased modera tely since the last 
report.  One respondent noted orders were str onger than expected because customers were no 
   XI-2 
longer sharply paring back inventories. Another contact said demand for electronic components 
used in automobiles had increase d at a strong pace.  In genera l, respondents expect demand to 
continue to grow at a mild pace over the next three months, yet uncertainty remains prevalent. 
 Conditions in the paper industry were weak  but stable. Several large box manufacturers 
said orders held steady over the past six weeks and were above levels s een at the beginning of 
the year. The exception was for producers that se ll to the construction industry where demand 
remains quite poor. Food manufacturers noted a sli ght increase in the pace  of sales in recent 
weeks, although the level of demand remains moderate. Trans portation manufacturing contacts 
said weakness in the commercial airline industry kept demand for ai rcraft parts at low levels.  
 Petrochemical demand was mixed. Producers th at sell to domestic manufacturing or auto-
related markets cited an increase in demand, but manufactures of vinyl products such as PVC 
said domestic sales remained weak, despite so me improvement in the housing market. Some 
producers said export demand from Europe and Asia was strong due to the cost advantage of 
domestic natural gas-based produc ts over oil-based products. Refine rs said demand for oil-based 
products rose since the last repo rt but remains well below the p eak in early 2008. Inventories for 
most products are high and refiners cut productio n slightly due to poor margins. Demand for 
energy-related products such as bits and drill pipe was weak and manu factures continue to 
operate facilities at very low capacity. 
 Retail Sales    Retailers report that consumers rema in cautious, keeping overall sales flat 
at low levels. Value-based respondents noted sale s were not as robust as expected given the 
back-to-school season. Texas-base d department stores said A ugust sales trailed the national 
average but strengthened during the state’s “t ax-free” weekend. While contacts say “things are 
up off the bottom,” outlooks suggest it will be some time before we see a consumer-based 
rebound.    Auto dealers said demand was boosted by the cash-for-clunkers program, but they 
expect sales to drop back down to lower levels now that the program is over. The increase in 
sales drew down inventories, putt ing dealers in a better position. Several contacts noted a delay 
in receiving checks from the government and diffic ulty with the program’s  stringent paperwork.  
 Services   Staffing firms report a broad-based uptick in  contract activity but say that “it is 
nothing to get excited about,” and demand for direct  hires is still extremely slow. The pickup in 
orders for contract work has improved contac ts’ assessments of curre nt conditions, but the 
outlook continues to be cautious.  Demand for lega l services held relatively flat at depressed 
   XI-3 
levels with the exception of energy-related act ivity. Contacts in accountin g services say demand 
is “muddling along,” and apart from a seasonal uptick in early fall they do not expect 
improvement in the near term.  
 Demand for air travel remains weak but c onditions have stabilized  and the outlook is 
more optimistic than in previous reports. Sma ll parcel shipping firms said a pickup in demand 
from the transportation and non-durable retail se ctors led to positive growth in volumes, which 
they expect will continue through the third quart er. Container trade volumes rose in August, 
although the forecast is for a year-over-year decl ine in 2009. Railroads reported a modest, broad-
based increase in shipments, and a rise in contract prospects has improved company outlooks.   Construction and Real Estate   Sales of low-to moderately-priced homes continued to 
improve over the past six weeks as buyers took advantage of the first-time homebuyer tax 
incentive. Sales of higher priced homes and c ondos remained slow according contacts. New 
home construction ticked up, but some respondent s said it was more related to inventory 
replacement than sustainable improvement in de mand, as builders had depleted most of their 
standing inventory during the downtur n. Home values continue to hol d up better in Texas than in 
many other areas of the country, and respondents we re pleasantly surprised by recent figures that 
suggest prices may be firming. Despite some pos itive signs, contacts are hesitant to suggest a 
sustained recovery in the housing industry in the near term.   
 Commercial leasing activity remains sluggis h. Some contacts said owners were offering 
early renewal of office and warehouse space, but te nants were hesitant to  commit. Investment 
property sales are “dead in the water,” although there were still reports of increased investor 
interest. Contacts continue to express concern ab out the large share of commercial real estate 
loans up for renewal, but for now lenders appe ar to be extending the loans. Commercial 
construction activity is at histor ically low levels, and many contact s said the stimulus funds were 
not expected to help much. Most contacts don’ t expect conditions to improve until 2011.   
 Financial Services   There were scattered reports of improvement in loan demand over 
the past six weeks, although contacts remain cautious about the fu ture.  Most respondents noted 
an uptick in residential mortgage demand, largel y due to refinancing activity. Some contacts 
reported an increase in demand for auto loans, saying they were unsure how much of it was a 
result of the cash-for-clunkers program. Commercial real estate  loans were the exception and 
continue to be mostly nonexistent. Credit qua lity continues to deteriorate.  Mortgage 
bankruptcies remain high and consumer bankruptcies are rising.  Lenders also expect more write-
   XI-4 
downs related to commercial real estate. Many cont acts said they had seen a significant inflow in 
deposits over the past month.   
 Energy   Eleventh District drilling activity increa sed since the last report. Improvement 
in the rig count has been driven primarily by oil-directed drilling in  response to rising oil prices. 
The pickup in the rig count is not enough to change the weak position of the energy industry, 
according to contacts. Low demand and rising inventories are putting downward pressure on natural gas prices. Companies are realigning act ivities and employment in areas where they 
won’t need future capacity, including the Pe rmian Basin, south Texas and the more mature 
Barnett shale. Drilling has slowed  sharply in the Gulf  of Mexico, including deep water drilling. 
There is growing pessimism in the outlook for the natural gas industry.  
 Agriculture   Reports on agricultural conditions were mixed. The severe drought in 
central and south Texas has wiped out large por tions of dryland crops. Contacts say ranchers 
have liquidated as much of their cattle herds as  they can and are now looking for ways to save 
what they have left.  Milk prices remain be low production costs leading to financial losses for 
dairy farmers.  In contrast, favorable moisture  and growing conditions in northern parts of the 
state have resulted in excellent cr op yields. In particular, cotton yi elds are above year-ago levels.  
  
 
 
   XII-1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District s howed continued scattered signs of firming but 
appeared to be little changed on net during the reporting period of late July through the end of August.  
Upward price pressures remained quite modest overall,  and upward wage pressures were largely absent.  
Retail sales in general stayed anemic, while dema nd for services continued to erode.  District 
manufacturing activity remained stuck at very lo w levels, although conditions  improved further for 
manufacturers of information technology products.  Demand was solid for agricultural producers but 
remained weak for providers of natural resource product s.  Home sales strengthened further in most areas, 
but demand for commercial real estate continued to weaken.  Banking contacts reported that District 
lending activity eased on net and credit quality continued to deteriorate. 
Wages and Prices  Upward price pressures remained quite modest on net during the reporting period.  Commodity 
prices in general were stable, although the prices of oil and selected other commodities such as steel rose.  
Final prices for assorted retail goods continued to be held down by extensive discounting and promotional 
activity, and weak demand further reduced the prices of various categories of services.  About two-thirds of the contacts reported that they expect prices for the goods and services sold in their respective 
industries to remain largely unchanged through the remainder of 2009. 
 Little or no upward pressure on wages was reporte d.  Hiring remained quite restricted, and high 
levels of unemployment held down wage pressures thr oughout the District.  Contacts noted that, despite 
an anticipated improvement in economic conditions, they expect hiring to remain subdued for a prolonged period as companies focus on maintaining recent pr oductivity improvements ra ther than expanding 
employment; accordingly, they expect upward wa ge pressures to remain muted for some time.  
Retail Trade and Services 
  Retail sales overall remained v ery sluggish, although there wa s a substantial pickup in the 
sale of new autos resulting from  the cash‐for‐clunkers program.   Consumers continued to restrain 
   XII-2 
their spending on large discretionary purchases and luxuries, r esulting in weak demand at 
department stores and specialty  retail outlets.  Conversely, re tailers who focus more on necessities, 
such as discount chains and grocers, saw further sales gains.   In response to the implementation of 
the cash‐for‐clunkers program, s ales of new automobiles rose su bstantially compared with the 
prior survey period; however, contacts cautioned that sales are  likely to return to their earlier low 
levels at the conclusion of the p rogram.  Demand for used autom obiles stayed strong, although the 
limited supply of suitable inven tory continued to restrict sales. 
 Demand for services eased further since the last re porting period.  Contacts in the restaurant and 
food services industry noted weak demand and further d eclines in revenues.  Providers of health-care 
services reported a small drop in patient volumes, revers ing the slight uptick in the prior period.    
Demand weakened further for providers of profession al services such as business consulting and also for 
transportation services, although the pace of decline h as reportedly moderated.  Travel activity in the 
District was mixed:  it fell further at major destina tion markets in California and Nevada, but contacts in 
Hawaii reported a slight increase in visitor arrivals and hotel occupancy rates from prior low levels.   
Manufacturing  
  District manufacturing activity generally remain ed weak during the reporting period of late July 
through the end of August.  Demand weakened furthe r for metal fabricators, causing capacity utilization 
to fall from existing low levels and resulting in a dditional layoffs.  Activity at petroleum refineries 
continued to decline as a result of producers’ efforts to reduce excess inventories.  Makers of commercial 
aircraft and parts saw further significant declines in new and existing orders, and they reduced production 
activity accordingly.  By contrast, conditions continued to improve for manufacturers of semiconductors 
and other information technology pr oducts, as reflected in rising orde rs and capacity utilization.  Food 
manufacturers saw further sales gains. 
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand for agricultural products stayed solid , while demand remained  somewhat weak for 
extractors of natural resources used for energy production.  Sales for most types of agricultural products 
   XII-3 
continued to expand, and input costs, in particular transportation costs, stayed largely stable.  Weak 
demand caused inventories to rise further for oil extr actors, reaching levels close to earlier highs from a 
decade ago.  Similarly, weak demand for natural g as continued to constrain extraction activity and put 
downward pressure on prices. 
Real Estate and Construction 
  Housing market activity in the District remained weak but showed continued signs of 
improvement, while demand for commercial real estate eroded further.  The pace of home sales in many 
areas of the District, though still at relatively low levels, continued to edge up, spurred by price declines 
and low mortgage rates.  However, contacts in so me areas, including lower-cost areas such as Idaho and 
Utah, noted that steep rates on nonconforming “jumbo”  loans and a scarcity of lenders willing to offer 
them have restricted sales of higher-priced homes.  Moreover, new home construction remained at very 
low levels throughout the District.  Conditions cont inued to deteriorate in the commercial real estate 
market, with vacancy rates for office and industrial space increasing in many parts of the District and rent 
concessions rising in frequency.  Contacts reported that  limited availability of financing continued to 
sharply curtail construction activity and invest ment transactions for commercial properties. 
Financial Institutions 
 District banking contacts reported that loan dema nd softened further during the reporting period.  
Consumer loan demand stayed weak on net, and commercial and industrial loan volumes fell further as 
business owners remained very cautious about their capital spending.  Lending standards remained 
relatively restrictive for consumer and business le nding, and credit quality deteriorated further as 
corporate and household borrowers’ balance sheets continued to weaken.  Venture capital financing was 
one bright spot, with contacts noting increased inv estment amounts and declines in covenant violations 
for existing arrangements. 
 
 