               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T . 
               Wednesday  
               April  14, 2010 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   __________________ __ 
 
 
 
 
Current  
Economic  
Conditions  
 
 
By Federal Reserve District  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April  2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMAR Y OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS  
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS  
 
 
April  2010 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
 
SUMMARY  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  i 
 
First District —Boston  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... I-1 
 
Second District —New York  ................................ ................................ ............................ II-1 
 
Third District —Philadelphia  ................................ ................................ ..........................  III-1 
 
Fourth District —Cleveland  ................................ ................................ ............................  IV-1 
 
Fifth  District—Richmond  ................................ ................................ ...............................  V-1 
 
Sixth District —Atlanta  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. VI-1 
 
Seventh District —Chicago  ................................ ................................ ...........................  VII-1 
 
Eighth District —St. Louis  ................................ ................................ ..........................  VIII-1 
 
Ninth District —Minneapolis  ................................ ................................ .........................  IX-1 
 
Tenth District —Kansas City  ................................ ................................ ...........................  X-1 
 
Eleventh District —Dallas  ................................ ................................ ..............................  XI-1 
 
Twelfth District —San Francisco  ................................ ................................ ..................  XII-1 
 
 i 
Summary* 
Overall e conomic activity increased somewhat since the last report  across a ll Federal 
Reserve District s except St. Louis, which reported “softened” economic conditions.  
District s generally reported increases  in retail sales  and vehicle sales . Tour ism spending 
was up in a number of District s. Reports on  the service s sector  were generally mixed . 
Manufacturing activity increased  in all District s except St. Louis , and new orders were 
up. Many District s reported increased activity  in housing markets  from low levels. 
Commercial real estate market  activity remained very weak  in most  District s. Activity in 
the banking and finance sector was mixed  in a number of District s, as loan volumes and 
credit quality decreased . Agricultur al conditions were mixed as we ll, with positive 
conditions reported in District s from the central  and western p arts of the country, while 
negative conditions were reported in the mid and southern Atlantic District s. Mining and 
energy production and exploration increased for metals, oil and wind . 
While labor markets generally remained weak, some hiring activity was evident, 
particularly for temporary staff. Wage pressures were characterized as minimal or 
contained.  Retail prices generally remained level, but some input prices increased.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
District  reports indicated that consumer spending increased during the reporting period. 
New York and Cleveland reported  that recent sales strengthened, while sales rebounded 
in Richmond and Kansas City. Slight sales gains wer e reported in Philadelphia. Retail 
sales  in San Francisco continued to improve , but remained somewhat  sluggish on net . In 
St. Louis several new establishments opened, particularly  in the food industry. Several 
District s described consumers as somewhat more  confident . Businesses were cautiously 
optimistic regarding future sales : Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City and Dallas noted that 
retailers expect  sales to improve during the upcoming months. Sales of home furnishing s 
and electronic goods increased in a numb er of District s, while seasonal apparel  sales were 
up in New York, Philadelphia and Kansas City. New York and Minneapolis noted that 
shopping by Canadians was strong at businesses near the border. Atlanta reported that 
retailers continued to keep inventory  levels lower than normal , and retailers in New York 
reported that inventories are in very good shape .  
                                                           
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and based on information collected before April 5, 
2010.  This document summarizes comment s received from business and other contacts outside the Federal 
Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.  
 ii 
 Vehicle sales improved in a number of District s during March. New York, 
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas and San Francisc o noted 
that auto sales picked up in recent weeks. Cleveland described sales as decent, while sales 
were steady in Kansas City and mixed in Richmond. Several District s noted that 
favorable pricing and credit terms helped lure buyers into showrooms. Dealers  in 
Philadelphia indicated that they expect sales to increase during the next few months.  
Tourism conditions also improved during the reporting period. New York, 
Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco pointed to 
signs of incr eased tourism activity. Tourism was described as stable in most parts of the 
Atlanta District . Hotel occupancy rates were rising in New York, Chicago, Kansas City, 
and San Francisco. Reports on room rates were mixed : New York  and Kansas City noted 
increase s, while Chicago reported rate cuts, particularly at luxury hotels. Managers at 
mountain resorts in the Richmond District  reported that this winter was one of their best 
ski seasons ever. However, Atlanta noted that corporate bookings remained at very low 
levels at some high -end resorts.   
Nonfinancial Services  
Business services were mixed, with some signs of economic recovery. Boston and 
Minneapolis reported increased activity . Richmond and Dallas were mixed, while San 
Francisco said demand remained lacklu ster. St. Louis reported that the sector continued 
to decline. Advertising and consulting firms in Boston said demand is up substantially 
from the first quarter of 2009, while an advertising contact in Richmond and professional 
media services firms in San Francisco characterized sales as flat at low levels. Dallas 
reported sluggish demand for nontax -related accounting and legal services. Law firms in 
Minneapolis specializing in debt collections and bankruptcy saw strong demand, while a 
Richmond property man ager noted a large number of repossessions . 
Manufacturing  
Manufacturing activity increased  since the last report  across most of the country , with all 
Districts other than St. Louis  reporting increases in orders, shipments, or production . 
Boston, Cleveland,  Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco reported positive results in metals 
and fabrication. Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta  and Chicago reported increased auto or 
auto component production. Boston, Richmond, Dallas, and San Francisco saw increased 
production in e lectronic, computers or high -technology goods.  Chicago and Minneapolis 
 iii 
saw increased production of energy -related products. However, for construction -related 
goods, Chicago and Dallas reported mixed conditions, Boston reported flat activity and 
St. Louis reported  decreases. Overall, St. Louis saw more pl ant closures than plant 
openings . 
Banking and Finance  
Bank lending activity was mixed by category in most District s. Atlanta, St. Louis and 
Kansas City saw weaker loan demand across categories, while activi ty in San Francisco 
was flat at low levels and Dallas said that demand appears to be stabilizing.  Demand for 
consumer credit decreased in New York and increased slightly in Philadelphia. Most 
banks in Cleveland reported weak consumer loan demand, although  a few contacts saw a 
slight increase due to seasonal factors. Business and industrial loan volumes decreased in 
Philadelphia, Cleveland and Chicago and were flat in New York. San Francisco noted 
continued modest gains in venture capital funding.  
 Credit s tandards remained generally unchanged across the nation, while credit 
quality was mixed. New York, Cleveland and Kansas City reported tighter lending 
standards for commercial mortgages. In Atlanta several business contacts reported 
difficulty getting credi t. Dallas and San Francisco said standards continued to be tight. 
New York saw increased delinquency rates for all categories except consumer loans, 
which were flat. Philadelphia and Richmond saw little change in credit quality, while 
Cleveland was mixed. Dallas reported that credit quality was either stabilizing or 
improving, and appear ed to have turned a corner. Chicago noted an improvement in 
consumer and business loan quality, although credit quality for many small firms 
continued to decline.  
Real Estat e and Construction   
Residential real estate activity increased , albeit from low levels,  in most District s, with 
the exceptions of St. Louis, where it  was mixed, and San Francisco, where it  was flat. 
Contact s in Philadelphia, Cleveland and Kansas City expre ssed concern about whether 
sales would continue to grow after the expiration of the first -time home  buyer tax credit. 
New York, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco noted sluggish sales for high -end 
homes. Home prices were stable across most District s, bu t dec reased in parts of the New 
York and  Atlanta District s. Residential construction activity increased slightly in New 
 iv 
York, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Dallas, but remained weak in Cleveland, 
Chicago and San Francisco.  
 Commercial real estate act ivity was slow across the nation. Notable exceptions 
were Richmond, which saw an uptick in commercial leasing, and Dallas, where the sector 
was mixed and might be nearing bottom. In Boston , leasing activity consists largely of 
renewals, with many renewing tenants leasing less space. Manhattan Class A office rents 
were down 20 percent to 25 percent year over year. Contacts in Philadelphia, Richmond, 
Kansas City and Dallas expressed concern that lease concessions from landlords were 
putting downward pressure on rents. Commercial construction continued to be weak in 
most District s. Cleveland saw some development in the energy and industrial segments.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
District s reported mixed results in agriculture.  Atlanta reported that cold we ather 
negatively affect ed crop conditions . Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas noted that wet 
conditions delayed planting, though Dallas also commented that current soil moisture 
levels will be beneficial for the growing season. Chicago expect ed a normal pla nting 
schedule. Minneapolis and San Francisco indicated favorable weather conditions. The 
calving season is doing well in the Minneapolis District , but Chicago and Minneapolis 
noted softening dairy output prices.    
Activity in the energy and mining sector s increased  since the last report. 
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco saw increases 
in oil exploration. Coal production was mixed in the Philadelphia District  and increased 
in the Kansas City District . In the Minneapol is District , more wind energy projects are 
planned , and mining activity  increased .  
Employment, Wages, and Prices  
While overall labor markets remained weak, some hiring activity was evident, 
particularly for temporary staff. Employment in the manufacturing  and services sectors in 
Boston remained relatively unchanged, while very little hiring occurred at major legal 
and financial firms in New York. In the Richmond District , job cuts subsided at retail 
businesses , and employment was stable at most other servi ces firms. In Kansas City 
overall employment levels held steady, but more manufacturers and several energy -
related firms planned to increase payrolls. Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, and Chicago 
reported strong demand for temporary workers. A pickup in emplo yment was noted in the 
 v 
manufacturing sector by Cleveland, with little change in staffing for retail, energy, 
transportation and banking. Atlanta noted that many businesses continued to increase 
hours worked for existing staff. Minneapolis reported that whi le labor markets remained 
weak, some signs of hiring were noted.  
Wage pressures were characterized as minimal or contained. In Boston, most 
firms reported instituting or planning to institute modest wage increases of 2 percent to 3 
percent in 2010, while performance bonuses in the service s sector were generally down. 
Richmond reported that average wages edged higher in March in the services sector, but 
declined slightly in manufacturing. Most companies hiring new workers in the Kansas 
City District  were no t offering higher salaries to attract qualified applicants. Dallas 
reported that just a handful of firms were planning on partially reinstating employer 
matches to retirement plans or giving small pay increases. In Chicago wage pressures 
were minimal; howe ver, an increase in health -care costs was noted. San Francisco also 
reported  significant increases in the costs of employee benefits, such as health insurance 
and pensions.  
Retail prices generally remained level, but some input prices increased. Where 
producers faced cost pressures on inputs, they were largely unable to pass those prices 
downstream to selling prices, although in Kansas City some manufacturers were 
considering raising selling prices due to higher raw materials costs. In Boston retail 
vendor  and selling prices were stable. Philadelphia reported that prices of most goods and 
services have been steady, although there were increased reports of rising prices for basic 
materials and construction -related products. Apart from rising prices for steel  and 
petroleum -based products in Cleveland, raw materials and product pricing were generally 
stable. Richmond noted moderate price increases in the manufacturing and service s 
sectors. Chicago reported upward pressure on prices for plywood, industrial me tals and 
petroleum -based fuels. In the Dallas District  prices of chemicals and related products rose 
sharply, primarily due to plant outages. Natural gas prices slipped during the reporting 
period because of  continued high levels of production, low indu strial  demand  and the end 
of the winter season. Richmond and San Francisco reported increased overseas shipping 
costs.  
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON  
Business conditions continue to improve in the First District. Contacted retailers cite sales 
increases, manufacturers say demand continues to grow, and advertising and consulting firms report 
modest revenue increases. Home prices appear to be improving alo ng with sales in most of the region’s 
residential markets, while commercial real estate appears to be stabilizing although potential defaults 
remain a concern. Most New England employers are no longer shedding workers, and many are restoring 
recession -induced cuts in wages and benefits. Both input and selling prices are mostly said to be stable.  
Retail  
Contacted retailers in the First District report positive sales results for the early months of 2010 ; 
year-over-year same -store sales vary from flat to increases of about 20 percent , with “improved sales 
tone” across the board . Contacts attribute the uptick in sales to strengthening consumer confidence, strong 
marketing, and having “the right product and the right price.” All respondents are cautiously optimi stic in 
their outlook.  
Inventory levels are primarily on target, although one contact notes a decrease because of 
unexpectedly strong sales . Capital spending is more robust than in previous reports, with contacts 
spending on new store openings, store remo dels, IT systems and other technology . Several respondents 
report slight increases in headcount and the reinstatement of prior wage cuts. Vendor and selling prices 
are said to be stable, although one contact notes an increase in food-related commodity pric es.  
Manufacturing and Related Services  
Most man ufactur ing and related services contacts headquartered in the First District continue to 
report improving demand for their products in the first quarter of 2010. A furniture maker cites sales 
increases of mor e than 20 percent in the first quarter of 2010 relative to a year ago, a metals fabrication 
business reports similarly robust revenue growth, and business is also strong at a local semi -conductor 
firm. Overall , the manufacturers serving IT, electronics, an d business services industries report the 
greatest increases in demand. By contrast, firms selling machinery and equipment to industrial customers  
and those supplying real estate -related sectors, especially commercial real estate development,  say that 
business has stabilized or is improving somewhat, but they expect underlying demand to remain relatively 
sluggish for the rest of the year. In addition, some firms caution that growth in the first half of 2010 
appears strong simply because demand in the first half of 2009 was so weak. There has also been a 
bounce in growth at some firms from one -time inventory corrections.  
Input costs for manufacturers are gener ally un changed, with the exception of most  metals , for 
which prices are rising . Many companies report  that they are holding selling prices steady, although a few 
have managed (or plan) to implement modest increases this year; they face limited pressure to reduce 
their selling prices.  
The employment situation in the manufacturing sector remains relatively  unchanged. Two notable 
 
I - 2 
exceptions are a metals fabrication firm that has increased its workforce about 15 percent relative to a 
year ago and a large diversified equipment and technology manufacturer that expects to continue layoffs 
through this year. At m ost of the remaining firms, hiring in the U.S. is expected to remain relatively flat 
or increase only slightly for 2010. Manufacture rs continue to try to restore wage cuts and/or unfreeze 
wages. Most firms report instituting or planning to institute modest  wage increases of 2 percent to 3 
percent this year. Virtually all contacts continue to express concerns regarding rising health care costs.  
Most manufacturing respondents report that their planned capital expenditures for 2010 are level 
with or slightly greater than their expenditures in 2009. Most of the firms’ domestic capital expenditures 
will go toward expanding IT investment and/or their research and development functions . Respondents 
commenting on financing conditions say they have improved.  
Virtua lly all the contacted manufacturing firms remain cautiously optimistic that business 
conditions will continue to improve as the year progresses. The consensus, however, is that it may take a 
while for underlying demand to pick up substantially, and 2010 ma y turn out to be a transition year.  
Selected Business Services  
Most First District advertising and consulting contacts report modest quarter -over-quarter 
increases in revenue in the first quarter of 2010, although  some report flat to slightly negative gr owth. 
Nonetheless , all agree that demand  is up  substantially from  the first quarter of 2009 , with one firm’s 
growth exceeding  30 percent. As some uncertainties about healthcare reform were lifted, for example, 
consulting demand from the healthcare sector showed a rapid increase, and this strong growth is expected 
to continue throughout the year. Consulting d emand from private equity firms increased slightly as well.  
Most respondents made l arge price cuts  in 2009, in the r ange of 10 percent to 20 percent , with 
only a few holding the ir price s steady. Now  prices are being  raised, but they remain below  their pre-
recession level s. Regarding  compensation ; some contacts have kept and plan to keep base salar ies steady, 
while other s have raised salaries from 2 percent to 10 percent . Performance bonuses are general ly down . 
Most respondents intend to maintain current staff size s, with only replacement hiring, but  a few firms 
expect to increase headcounts  by 2 percent to 15 percent by the end of the year, and one firm plan s to 
further downsize by 5 percent.  
Advertising and consulting  contacts generally say they are cautiously optimistic about  the rest of 
the year , as some uncertainties remain. Most respondents forecast a slow recovery for their industry and 
project  annual revenue growth for their firms between 5 percent and 10 percent, although some expect flat 
growth. They express concern about  the availability of credit  and the possibility of a double dip.  
Commercial Real Estate  
Comm ercial real estate fundamentals in New England have been roughly stable since  the last 
report . In Rhode Island, the uptick in leasing activity seen in January has not been sustained and sales 
volume remained weak in recent weeks . Nonetheless, our contact notes that vacancy and rental rates in 
downtown Providence have stabilized . In Boston, leasing activity consists  largely of renewals , and 
 
I - 3 
renewing tenants continue to give back significant blocks of space . Boston contacts have not seen sizable  
rent declines in recent weeks , but downward pressure on rents remains significant and tenants are 
reportedly bargain ing hard for improvements and other concessions . However,  owners with weak equity 
positions cannot secure financing for improve ments  and therefore cannot effectively compete for tenants . 
Vacancy rates in greater Boston are roughly flat or up slightly since  the last report ; apartment vacancy 
rates in Boston have increased less in the current downturn than have vacancy rates for off ice and 
industrial properties . In Hartford, the industrial market is currently  the weakest sector, with 1.2 million  
square feet of vacant space added in the first quarter of 2010 ; fundamentals for office and retail properties 
were little changed over the s ame period . While Hartford’s commercial real estate market was described 
as “stagnant” overall, consumer sentiment in Connecticut was perceived as improving .  
In the investment sales market, contacts report growing demand for commercial properties by 
institutional investors and life insurance companies searching for higher yields . In line with this trend, a 
commercial real estate lender in Boston has seen significant sales activity for fully -leased, low -risk 
properties, and his bank has lost bids to other, more aggressive lenders . A local  asset  management firm 
recently purchased a prime, mixed -use property in Boston among competition from multiple bidders . At 
the same time, investor sentiment is reportedly mixed as to whether prices have hit bottom, and 
significant gaps remain between bidding and asking prices in the riskier segments of the market .  
Looking forward, a few contacts express renewed concern about looming commercial mortgage 
defaults, as operating incomes and debt -service reserves continue to fal l and equity in many properties 
remains weak . Defaults are expected to rise over the next 12 months and possibly beyond . While most 
contacts expect leasing volume to rise in the later part of 2010, none expect rent s to increase significantly  
in the near te rm and one sees little upside risk to rents for at least five years , in Boston at least . 
Residential Real Estate  
Residential real estate markets in New England continue d to show mostly positive signs in 
February . Home sales increased year -over-year in most  parts of the region, with 14 percent increases in 
Maine and Massachusetts . Rhode Island home sales, by contrast,  declined  slight ly year -over-year. Condo 
sales also increased significantly in Massachusetts and New Hampshire compared to February 200 9. 
Price s also showed signs of stabilization as the median price of homes in February increased modestly 
year-over-year in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island , and held steady in Maine . The 
median condo price in Massachusetts  increased 13 percent year -over-year in February.  
While Massachusetts contacts are still concerned about low inventory, the 3 percent year -over-
year dec line in home listings was actually the smallest decrease in 23 months . These contacts hope that 
sellers will come back to the market  as prices rise . Furthermore, the average number of days on market 
fell sharply across the region . Real estate brokers  have been kept busy by the strong demand from buyers  
encouraged by the tax credit and low prices . Unfortunately, recent flooding in sever al areas has been a 
problem for some deals.  
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT --NEW YORK  
The Second District’s economy has strengthe ned noticeably since the last report , though hiring 
remains sluggish ; price pressures have increased moderately but prices at the consumer level remain 
stable .  Manu facturing -sector contacts report improve d activity.  Auto dealers note some pickup in sales 
in March, following a lull in February, while general merchandise retailers report improving sales in both 
months.  Tourism activity in New York City has strengthen ed further since the last report.  Commercial 
real estate markets  have been steady to slacker .  Residential real estate markets , though still sluggish, have 
shown scattered signs of improvement, especially at the lower end of the market .  Bankers report  steady 
to weaker loan demand , higher  delinquency rates  (except on consumer loans), and tighter credit  standards .  
Consumer Spending  
Retail ers report further strengthening in sales since the last report.  Contacts report that general 
merchandise sales were on  or ahead of plan in February and March, with year -over year gains in 
comparable -store  sales running as high as 10 to 13 percent in March.  While part of this strength was 
attributed to the earlier occurrence of Easter this year, most of it was ascribed to  underlying strength in 
demand and rising consumer confidence.  One large mall in the Buffalo area also notes strong spending 
by Canadian shoppers.  While the strength in sales is reported to be fairly broad -based, a major retail 
chain notes particular str ength in sales of seasonal apparel and big -ticket goods for the home.  Inventories 
are reported to be in very good shape, and a number of retailers say they are discounting less heavily .  
Auto dealers report that sales remained sluggish in February but pic ked up noticeably in March.  Credit 
conditions for car buyers  have continued to improve, though floor -plan credit (for dealers) remains tight.  
Revenues from dealers’ service departments are said to be doing relatively well.  Contacts are generally 
optimis tic about the outlook for the rest of 2010 .  
Tourism activity in New York Ci ty has continued to strengthen  since the last report.   Manhattan 
hotels report that business was relatively brisk in February and that preliminary indications for March 
 
 II-2 
show even m ore strength: occupancy rates have risen steadily and are estimated to be up 8 percentage 
points from a year earlier in March, despite an increase in the overall number of hotel rooms.  Total 
revenue per room, which had been down more than 10 percent from a year earlier in late 2009, was 
estimated to be up 6 percent in March.  Similarly, Broadway theaters report a noticeable pickup in 
business since the last report, following a weather -related lull in early February: March revenues were up 
16 percent  from a  year earlier, while attendance rose 9  percent .  Separately , The Conference Board reports 
that consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) slipped in February 
but rebounded in March, to just below a two year high .  
Constr uction and Real Estate  
Housing markets , though still weak,  have shown some signs of improvement since the last 
report —especially at the lower end of the market .  A contact that monitors New Jersey’s housing industry 
notes that single -family building permit s, though still sluggish,  have picked up in early 2010 .  New home 
sales are steady at a depressed level , but resale activity has picked up somewhat .  Another real estate 
contact in northern New Jersey notes that, while sales of homes in the $500K and up ra nge remain 
sluggish, more moderately priced homes are selling fairly well, sometimes with multiple offers .  There are 
reported to be r elatively few distress sales of late.  While p rices have stopped declining  across much of 
New Jersey , areas near New York City have seen the pace of decline accelerate somewhat.  Realtors 
across New York State report a pickup in both sales and prices in early 2010 , though most of the price 
increases were upstate.  B uffalo -area h ome sales reportedly picked up in February and M arch, particularly 
at the lower  end of the price  spectrum —partly attributed to the extended homebuyer tax credit.  Home 
prices in the Buffalo area we re reported to be up more than 10 percent from a year earlier.  
Manhattan ’s housing market remains sluggish,  though there are signs of stabilization, especially in 
the rental market.  Co -op and condo s ales transactions were reported to have doubled in the first quarter 
from the depressed levels of a year earlier but were still down modestly from the 4th quarter of 2009.  
 
 II-3 
Prices were also down modestly  for the quarter and continued to run roughly 20 percent below a year 
earlier, with milder declines on studio and 1 -bedroom apartments but steeper price drops on larger units.  
Manhattan’s apartment rental market sho wed further signs of stabilizing in March: rents edged up and 
were down just 1½ percent from a year earlier, though vacancy rates rose modestly.   
Commercial real estate markets were steady to softer s ince the last report .  Manhattan’s office 
vacancy rate continued to climb in the first quarter , though at a more subdued pace than in 2009; asking 
rents for Class A properties continued to run 20 -25 percent lower than a year earlier.  Still, a contact at a 
major brokerage  firm notes a pickup in leasing activit y and sees signs of stabilization in Midtown, though 
not in Downtown.  Looking at the surrounding areas, office vacancy rates continued to drift down in Long 
Island, were steady in northern New Jersey, but continued to rise in Westchester and Fairfield Cou nties.  
Asking rents were down moderately (3 to 6 percent) in these markets.  Office vacancy rates in most of 
upstate New York remain relatively stable —up a bit in the Buffalo and Rochester areas but down 
modestly in the Albany area.  Asking rents are rela tively steady in the Buffalo and Albany areas but down 
3-8 percent from a year ago in metropolitan Rochester and down more steeply in the Syracuse area.  
Industrial (factory and warehouse) markets slackened throughout most of the District, with vacancy rat es 
rising and rents falling.  A real estate developer in the Buffalo area notes that commercial development 
and construction are increasingly sparse and that credit remains exceptionally tight.  
Other B usiness Activity  
A major N ew York City employment agenc y reports that activity picked up slightly in March but 
remains weak —in part, reflecting the holidays in the final week of the month .  There continues to be very 
little hiring activity from major legal and financial firms .  Still, a contact in the securiti es industry notes 
that layoffs have largely wound down and that some firms are looking to increase staff  in regulatory 
compliance .  Cash bonuses have been slashed for highly compensated employees, but some banks have 
reportedly raised salaries to offset pa rt of the bonus cuts.  More generally, the securities industry is 
 
 II-4 
reported to be faring relatively well, though there is some concern about the outlook: M&A and IPO 
activity remain dormant, profits generated by the secondary market are not seen continuing this year, and 
there remains concern about proposed tax and regulatory issues.   
Looking at business conditions more generally, contacts outside the manufacturing sector 
continue to describe conditions as stable or rising modestly .  However, m anufacturing contacts  in the 
District note improved conditions since the last report .  A trucking -industry contact reports some pickup 
in business in recent months, though conditions remain weak.  There are  scattered reports of shortages of 
truck drivers —partly due to more stringent requirements for commercial drivers’ licenses.  
Financial Developments  
Reports on loan demand were mixed  across the consumer and commercial loan groups.  Bankers 
indicate  decreased demand in the consumer loan and residential mortgage categor ies, but little change in 
demand for commercial mortgages and loans.  Bankers also reported decreased demand for refinancing .  
Respondents indicate a tightening of credit standards in all categories , most notably  in the commercial 
mortgage category.   Banke rs report no change in the spreads of loan rates over costs of funds , except in 
the commercial mortgage category, where they report  an increase.  Respondents indicate  widespread 
decreases in average deposit rate s.  Finally, r espondents note increase d delin quency rates for all categories 
except consumer loan s, where they reported no change .  
III - 1 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA  
 
 Economic activity moved up some what  in the Third District since the last Beige Book , on 
balance, although the advance did not include all sectors . Manufacturers, on balance, reported 
increase s in shipments and new orders. Retailers generally posted gains from February to March.  
Motor vehicle dealers indicated that sales increased. Third District banks report ed steady to 
slightly decreased loan volume outstanding . Residential real estate agents and homebuilders said 
home sales increased from February to March.  Nonresidential real estate leasing  and 
construction activity continued to be weak , but contacts reported some increase in purchase and 
investment activity . Business firms in the region indicated that prices of most goods and services 
have been steady, although there were increas ed reports of rising prices for basic materials and 
construction -related products.  
The outlook among Third District business co ntacts is that business activity will continue 
to move up slowly in most sectors in the months ahead . Manufacturers forecast a rise in 
shipments and orders during the next six months, on balance. Retailers expect sales to expand 
modestly as consumer confidence is slowly restored . Auto dealers e xpect the sales rate to remain 
above last year’s pace . Bankers expect slight increases in lending.  Residential real estate contacts 
expect home sales to rise somewhat during the balance of the year, but they are unsure of the 
immediate trend after the expi ration of the federal tax credit for homebuyers.  Contacts in 
nonresidential real estate expect leasing to advance slightly as tenants take advantage of 
concessions and lower rents , but they do not expect much growth in demand for commercial 
space until firms begin to add workers in substantial numbers.  
 
Manufacturing  
Third District manufacturers  reported increas es in shipments and new orders  in March , 
on balance, although the number of firms recording gains was not as large as it was in February.  
However , most of the major manufacturing industries in the region posted net increases.  In 
general, manufacturers indicated that demand for their products was picking up slowly. One said , 
“Business is better than a year ago, but not exciting,” and another said , “There is a slow, steady 
gain.”   
III - 2 
Third District manufactur ers who were queried in March expect business conditions to 
improve during the next six months, on balance , and the level of optimism has been practically 
unchanged from last month . Among the firms surveyed in March , about half expect increases in 
new orders and shipments; about one-tenth expect decreases. Capital spending plans among area 
manufacturers remain positive, on balance, but have weakened since the last Beige Book. About 
one-fifth of the fi rms polled in March plan to increase expenditures for new plant and equipment, 
although two-thirds plan to maintain level spending.  
 
Retail  
Third District r etailers reported slight gains in sales in March compared with February  
and with March of last year. They generally indicated that spring apparel sales were moving up 
in line with expectations. Some retailers also noted that sales of housewares and home 
furnishings had risen recently, and one store executive said this increas e “shows consumers are 
more willing to spend, although they are still being cautious.” Looking ahead, Third District 
retailers expect modest year -over-year increases in sales for the spring season, although they 
point out that the gain will be from a low s ales level a year ago.  
Third District auto dealers reported an improve d pace of sales in March compared with 
February. They said inventories remained well under control.  Dealers expect sales to continue to 
move up through the spring, and they also anticipa te that some domestic franchises that had been 
discontinued will be restored in the months ahead. In general, dealers are maintaining their 
expect ations that total sales for this year will be slightly ahead of last year.  
 
Finance  
Total outstanding loan vol ume at most of the Third District banks contacted for this 
report has been level or ha s declined slightly since the last Beige Book . On balance, commercial 
bank lending officers said there has been a small increase  in consumer lending, although some 
banker s noted an increase in paydowns and payoffs. Bankers generally reported declines in most 
other credit categories.  Most of the surveyed b anks indicated that credit quality measures showed 
little change since the last Beige Book.  
Looking ahead, Third District bankers expect some growth in lending. They expect gains 
in consumer lending and lending to businesses. Several bankers indicated they plan to step up 
III - 3 
business lending, but only to borrowers “with a sound income stream,” as one contact said.  Some 
bankers also said they expected commercial real estate lending and lending for construction to 
begin to rise. Banker s noted that commercial real estate funding by both banks and nonbank 
financial institutions was starting to become more available.   
 
Real Estate and Construction  
Sales of new and existing homes picked up some what in March after falling in February . 
Sales continued to be str onger in the lower - and moderate -price segments of the market  for both 
new and existing homes . Real estate agents s aid the inventory of homes listed for sale remained 
elevated , and sales prices have been steady  or declining across the region . Local real estate 
agents and homebuilders said it was difficult to determine whether the recent increase in sales 
was the result  of buyers signing contracts to take advantage of the federal tax credit before its 
April expiration or whether the upturn reflected a more fundamental seasonal increase. However, 
the general view among Third District real estate contacts is that any impro vement in home sales 
during the rest of the year will be modest. A s one contact  comment ed, “We have hit the bottom, 
but now people are only going to buy if they need to .” 
Nonresidential real estate firms indicated that leasing  and construction activity remained 
slow . Contacts reported that vacancy rates have been about steady for most types of commercial 
property since the last Beige Book, although vacancy rates for some retail centers have risen. 
Effective rents continued to be under downward pressure a s landlords make concessions to keep 
existing tenants and attract new ones.  Contacts expect nonresidential real estate markets to 
remain weak as long as tenants are unwilling to expand. One contact said , “The office market 
will suffer until employment retu rns to more normal levels.” However, some contacts said they 
believe investor interest in purchasing or financing commercial property was beginning to 
increase because expected returns to real estate investment appeared to be rising relative to other 
inves tment classes.  Additionally, some contacts noted that the decline in property values in the 
past year has prompted some tenants to purchase the buildings they occupy.  
 
Prices  
Reports on input costs and output prices have been mixed since the last Beige Book. 
Around one -third of the manufacturing firms polled in March noted increases in the costs of the 
III - 4 
commodities they use , and around two -thirds reported steady input costs . Most continued to 
report that they have not raised the prices of the products they make , although some producers of 
food products and metals have raised prices . Construction firms noted recent increases in the 
costs of lumber , drywall, metal products, oil -based products, and some glass products. Retailers 
reported mostly flat selling prices . 
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND  
The economy in the Fourth District  show ed further signs of strengthening since our last 
report.   Manufacturers  told us  that the rise in production  which began  late last year  continued, 
although orders remain below pre -recession levels .  Contacts in non -residential construction  
noted some signs of renewed growth, but they  are concerned about its sustainability .  Financing  
remains a major  issue for residential and commercial  contractors .  Sales figures from District 
retailers  and auto dealers  showed  a moderate  improvement .  Energy production  was mixed  and 
report s indicate  a continuing  upturn in freight transport volum e.  Demand by b usiness es and 
consumer s for new loans remains weak , although some bankers noted that the lending 
environment is  starting to grow  more competitive.     
A pickup in employment  was notable in  the manufacturing sector , where business es are 
recalling  some  workers and  increasing  produ ction hours .  A majority of s taffing -firm 
representatives  indicated  that new job openings  increased, primarily in  healthcare . Wage 
pressures  continue to be  conta ined.  Apart from rising  prices for  steel and petroleum -based 
products , raw material s and product pri cing was  generally  stable .     
Manufacturing.   Reports from  District factories  show ed that production  was largely 
stable  or rose slightly  during the past six weeks, with  a few  of our contacts citing an increase in  
their backlog s.  Most manufacturers  told us that production  levels have  increased  on a year -over-
year basis, though  by varying amounts .  In general, o ur respondents  are cautiou sly optimistic  and 
expect  their sales to increase at a modest rate going into sum mer, but they are not expecting a 
return to pre-recession levels through the end of the year .  Steel shipments  were  better than 
anticipated , with  rising  volume  being driven primarily by autos, energy, and heavy equipment.   
Looking forward , many of  our steel contacts  said that they are uncertain if the rise in  volume is 
sustainable in the long -term.   Nonetheless,  they expect shipping volume during the next few 
months to  at least  approach levels seen in the first quarter.   District auto production  was stable in 
February  on a month -over-month  basis , and showed  a substantial rise when comparing year-
over-year data for both domestic and foreign nameplates.  
  Reports on inventories were mixed.  H alf of our contacts said that product supplies are 
low relative to demand , while others reported that  their inventories  remain well balanced.  
Capacity  utilization continued  a slow upward trend .  Capital o utlays  are on target , with monies  
being allocated  primarily  for maintenance proj ects, new equipment,  or IT upgrades .  
Manufa cturers said that outlays will  remain  below pre -recession levels until a robust recovery is 
underway.   We heard many  reports  of increasing  steel prices , which were attributed  primarily  to 
rising raw mater ials (iron ore, scrap, and alloys) costs .  There was little response on the p art of 
IV - 2  
manufacturers to raise  their own prices because of relatively weak market conditions.  However, 
some of our respond ents are beginning to initiate material s surcharge s.  We hear d numerous 
reports of recalling laid -off w orkers and increased  work h ours, while new hiring was  limited to 
temporaries.   Wage pressures are contained .  
Real Estate .  In general, new home sales improved slightly  during the past six weeks  and 
on a year -over-year basis .  Nonetheless, some builders  are struggling  to close  sales.  Purchases of 
entry -level homes continue to do  well, and several  contacts  told us  that the move -up category  is 
gaining momentum .  Builders expressed concern about th e potential effect  on home sales when 
the first-time home buyers ’ tax credit  expires  and the downward pressure on home prices , which 
they attributed to unreliable appraisals.   They also  reported  that banks  remain unwilling to lend 
money for constructing spec houses  or buying land .  Home builders  are not anticipating a big 
turnaround  in the housing market , and they  expect  total sales  volume in 2010 will equal or be 
slightly greater than last year’s volume .  Little change was noted in the list prices of new homes , 
construction material costs , and subcontractor pricing.   General contractors  and subcontractors  
continue to operate  with skeleton crews . 
Activity in non -residential construction  showed early  signs of  a pickup.  Inquiries  have 
improve d, and many  contractors said  that they are beginning to rebuild their backlogs.  Most 
project s currently  under -way fall within  the industrial and energy categories .  Half of our 
contacts  are uncertain about the level of construction  activity  for the remainder of 2010 , while 
others see  a small improvement when compared to 2009.   We continue  to hea r accounts  of 
difficulties in obtaining  project  financing, even for credit -worthy borrowers.   Increased costs for 
construction mat erials were limited to steel  and petroleum -based products .  General contractors 
reported that other than seasonal hiring, their employment levels have been flat.  Subcontractors 
are still struggling , with many  of them  taking on projects at cost.     
Consumer Spending .  For the period from mid -February through mid -March, retail sales 
were generally stronger when compared to the previous 30 -day period and were up on a year -
over-year basis.  Althoug h consumers continue to fo cus on  buying necessities  over discretionary 
items, retailers no ted that they see a pick up in the sales of home furnishings .  Looking forward, 
retailers are cautiously optimistic , and most expect sales to improve somewhat  during the second 
quarter .  Vendor  and store  pricing has  been  relatively  stable .  Retailers commen ted that they are 
placing less empha sis on promotions and markdowns , and store  inventories  continue d on the lean 
side.  Auto dealers  characterized new vehicle sales from mid -February through mid -March as 
decent , with little change when compared to year -ago sales.   Used -vehicle pur chases are  holding 
steady .  Overall , sales  are expected  to show  a modest improvement  at best during the second 
quarter .  Dealer inventory positions have improved since our last report, t hough a few dealers 
IV - 3  
still characterize it as light.   Several  contacts told us  that buyer  credit  is beginning to loosen , as 
community banks  and credit unio ns are becoming more aggressive .  Reports show  little change 
in sta ffing levels  at retailers or auto dealers.   
Banking.   Demand for  new business  loans  remains weak , although a few  bankers noted 
that they are beginning to see  their pipelines become  more active .  Interest rat es were steady.   
Some of our  respondents  also commented that the lending environment is growing more 
competitive .  On the consumer side,  loan demand  was mixed.  While several bankers said that 
demand was very weak, others are seeing a slight increase, which  they attributed to seasonal 
factors and draw -downs on HELOC s.  The residential mortgage market  is stable, with most 
activity  dominated by refinancings.   Core deposits  continue d to show strong  grow th at most  
banks .  Interest spreads are wid ening due primarily to term deposit  repricing.   Credit standards  
have not changed  appreciably  in the past six weeks, though commercial real estate lending is 
receiving closer scrutiny .  Reports on the credit quality of loan applicants were mixed.   Almost 
all of our respondents told us that delinquencies have stabilized  or declined.   Employment 
growth  at banks  was limited to some strategi c hires .   
Energy.   Little change in  oil and  natural  gas output  was reported  during the past six 
weeks , with  only a slight incr ease expected during  the second quarter.   Spot prices for  natural  gas 
are on the decline, while oil prices are fluctuating  within a narrow range.   We heard mixed 
reports on coal production.   One producer noted that demand from off-shore customers  for 
metallurgical coal  has increased significantly and that his c ompany is reopening one of its  idled 
mines.  Prices for coal were mixed  but tended to the upside.   In general, capital expenditures  
showed a modest improvement .  Production equipment and material s costs were flat, although 
we heard some reports that the ri se in steel prices is making its way down the supply chain .  
Employment was  steady , and little hiring  is expected in the near future.  Wage pressures are 
contained.   
Transportation.   Freight tr ansport  executives reported  that shipping volume  continue s to 
show a  gradual  improve ment , and they expect this trend to persist for the remainder of the year.   
However, profit marg ins remain constrained  due primarily to over capacity  and rising fuel costs , 
which have to be  absorbed into the current rate structure .  Apart from  fuel prices , operating cost s 
have been relatively stable, although there is some concern about rising  costs associated with 
regulatory compliance.   Equipment purchases remain at low levels, with little change expected 
until there is  a substantial  pickup in shipping  volume.   Hiring was limited to replacement only.    
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT –RICHMOND  
 Overview. Economic activity improved across the Fifth District since our last 
assessment. R etail sales improved, despite weak sales of big -ticket  items . Manufacturing activity 
continued to advance, as evidenced by further increases in  shipments and orders. Ho use sales 
showed some improvement, although prices continue d to edge downward, and commercial 
leasing also experienced a slight uptick over the last six weeks. Tourist activity improved, with 
bookings showing moderate s trength at both mountain and coastal r esorts. While activity in both 
the service and banking sectors remained mixed, positive reports were more prevalent than in our 
last assessment. Labor markets were  weak throughout the District, with steady employment i n 
manufacturing and falling employment on the retail side of the service  sector . Moderate price 
increases were reported in both manufacturing and service sectors. Finally, excessive dampness 
delayed the planting of crops in most areas of the District.  
Retail.  Retail sales rebounded since our last report, owing in part to a slower decline in 
big-ticket sales. The store manager at a central North Carolina chain department store said sales 
were ―coming out of the doldrums,‖ and Easter sales were especially s trong this year. Weakness 
in big-ticket sales w as mitigated by early tax refunds , as consumers bought furniture  and flat 
screen televisions . Also , as the unusually snowy winter ended, sales of seasonal outdoor items 
such as lawn mowers , improved . A contact  at a Washington, D.C. , beltway department store 
reported that sales were 6% above a year ago and that his counterparts at local mall stores also 
saw improved sales growth in recent weeks. The pace of District grocery sales rose in recent 
weeks, although a  Virginia food distributor noted rapid increases in input prices for many 
product categories. Sales of automobiles and light trucks were mixed; in the Carolinas and West 
Virginia, dealers reported stronger business, while sales remained tepid elsewhere in the District.  
In contrast, a few contacts were less confident  – a retailer in West Virginia told us that customers 
remained cautious about spending. Retail prices edged up slightly since our last report.  
  Services.   Reports from  non-retail services firms were mixed. A contact at an advertising 
business reported, ―We expect to bounce along the bottom for some time,‖ and an executive at a 
North Carolina property management business said, ―The repo man is busy.‖  While a hospital in 
the Piedmont area cut empl oyees, blaming the weak economy, another North Carolina hospital 
executive said previously planned capit al projects were going forward.  In addition, professional, 
scientific, and technical firms across the District indicated that business  had picked up in recent 
weeks. Price change at services -providing firms was virtually  flat.  
 V-2  
Manufacturing: District manufacturing advanced somewhat faster since our last report. 
A majority of the contacts reported that shipments posted gains and new order s continued to 
increase , while  employment stabilized. A producer of electronic components reported that his 
company had seen a nice order ―bump‖ in March, providing a strong order backlog going into 
April. Moreover, a manufacturer of door components noted an unusual conflu ence of events 
currently driving his business . ―The earthquake in Chile and subsequent halt on shipment of 
products from that country ha s resulted in a sharp run -up of demand for domestically produced 
wood products, with pricing escalating dramatically as well.‖ Similarly, a ball bearings 
manufacturer indicated that demand from the automotive industry continued to be very strong, 
but noted that steel pricing was growing at an alarming rate and freight costs , particularly on 
ocean freight, w ere up dramatical ly. Accordingly, most contacts reported that both raw materials 
and finished goods prices increased at a quicker pace since our last report.  
Port activity over the last few months was up slightly. Both imports and exports posted 
moderate gains, although ex ports tended to outperform import gains. While the dollar was seen 
as a contributing factor, most contacts attributed gains in exports primarily to improvements in 
overseas markets. One contact stated that export s would have been even stronger  if the right mix 
of containers had been available. However, s hipping cost s increased in recent months, which 
discouraged some companies from exporting. One contact also reported that total tonnage so far 
this year was down from the fourth quarter of last year, partly due to adverse weather that 
prevented producers  from getting their goods to the docks.   
Finance.  Banking activity was generally mixed, but with more signs of improvements 
than in our last assessment. On the commercial and industrial side, wea k loan demand preva iled 
in most local markets, although several bankers reported modest improvements. U ptick s in loans 
for new equipment, especially upgrades by professional services , were also noted , and one 
banker c ited an increase in SBA loans. Auto dea lers, however, continued to struggle to get floor -
plan financing, and construction loans were down. On the mortgage side, reports of loan demand 
varied between no change and modest increases. Refinancing activity was important in some 
markets, but rising m ortgage rates were curtailing refinancing in others. First -time buyers 
continued to dominate loan applications. One banker reported an increase in lending on 
foreclosed homes, and added that very few home loan applications were for upgrades. Credit 
quality  was little changed in recent months, and banks were about evenly split between reporting 
increases and decreases in delinquent payments.   
 V-3  
Real Estate:  Residential Realtors in the District gave generally upbeat reports on house 
sales . While the tax credit  program  remained the single most important motivating factor, one 
Realtor told us that sales over the past three months had outweighed all of his 2009 sales and that 
only 18 -20 percent of the buyers had taken advantage of the tax credit. Hous e prices were  mixed 
across the District. For example, prices rose in Fairfax and Greensboro, held steady in 
Greenville, and were relatively flat in Richmond. Notable decreases in prices were reported in 
Washington, D.C., where a significant increase in sales of lowe r-priced properties were reported, 
and in Fredericksburg, where a Realtor sta ted that , ―banks  seem to be willing  to take anything 
within reason  to reduce their holdings  of foreclosed properties .‖ 
Commercial real estate activity picked up slightly  since our la st report. Most contacts 
generally reported a n uptick in leasing activity , particularly in the office and industrial sectors, 
while  activity in the retail sector remained sluggish. Effective r ental rates decreased somewhat as 
landlords became more aggressive in offering concessions. Vacancy rate s were generally high, 
although  vacancy rates in some local markets did improve. Sales activity continued to be 
hampered by stringent bank requirements and a scarcity of creditworthy buyers.  However, one 
contact reported that p roperty sales increased somewhat due to foreclosed properties being 
purchased at very low prices. While contacts reported very little new construction over the past 
few weeks, some activity was reported on the industrial side for some bu ild-to-suit projects and 
some bidders continued to submit proposals at low or no profit just to keep their doors open.   
Tourism:  Assessments of tourist activity improved somewhat since our last report.  
Along the coast, contacts noted somewhat stronger b ookings, compared to o ur last survey . An 
analyst on the Outer Banks of North Carolina said that bookings for the Easter weekend were 
looking good with advanced rentals up 10 percent over last year. A manager from Myrtle Beach 
indicated that last -minute boo kings had picked up, which he attributed to the recent warm 
weather and steep discounts on special packages at most hotels. Managers at mountain resorts 
throughout the District reported one of their best ski seasons ever —both in terms of business 
activity  and revenues —and mentioned that vacationers were booking early and staying close to 
home. Finally, the 98th annual National Cherry Blossom Festival in Washington, D.C. , is off to a 
good start and is expected to attract record crowds.  
Labor Market.  Fifth Di strict labor markets remained soft over the past several weeks, 
but declines in some sectors eased. Job cuts subsided at retail businesses, and employment was 
unchanged at most oth er services firms as well as in manufacturing. A West Virginia automobile 
 V-4  
dealer increased hiring, and a retailer reported that he was only replacing workers , but continued 
to give raises. Average wages edged higher in March in the service sector, but declined slightly 
in manufacturing. Contacts at temporary employment agencies re ported generally stronger 
demand for temporary help since our last report. Reports from some agency clients indicated 
that, while they saw an increase in business, they remained unsure how long it would last and 
opted to continue using contingent labor. However, o ne temp orary  agency reported that clients 
were now filling positions that had been eliminated at the depth of the economic downturn.   
Agriculture . Although dr ier weather prevailed in recent weeks, wet fields continued to 
hinder plantings and field preparation in many areas of the District. Indications of delayed 
fertilization of winter grains and forage seeding were evident in some areas . In Virginia, grain 
farm ers attempted to fertilize their wheat and barley fields, but were forced to wait for dr ier 
weather. In addition, hay was still being fed to livestock in many areas of the state. Nevertheless, 
winter wheat was reported to  be in mostly fair -to-good conditio n in South Carolina and West 
Virginia. In addition, drier weather during the first week of April allowed farmers in South 
Carolina to plant corn at a rapid pace. Finally, r esults of our recent survey of agricultural credit 
conditions indicated that farmlan d values were above the previous quarter and year -ago levels.  
 
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA  
Summary .  Business contacts around the District described eco nomic activity as 
improving in March and early April .  Retailers saw an increase in traffic and sales and 
their outlook improved .  Auto sales increased on a year-over-year basis , while revenues 
in the District’s  tourism segment were described as stable .  Residential real estate 
contacts indicated that both new and existing home sales improved  and were  above weak 
levels from a year earlier .  Commercial contract ors, on the other hand,  continued to cite 
weakness in nonresidential construction activity .  District manufacturers noted  further 
improvement in new orders  and production .  The flow of bank credit to businesses 
remained subdued .  Permanent hiring remained weak .  However, temporary help agencies 
noted a n increase in job orders .  Manufactur ers and homebuild ers reported increase s in 
input prices  but indicated that they were not able to p ass them through to consumers.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism .  District merchants indicated  an 
improvement  in traffic and sales in March .  Retailers reported that despite the uptick in 
sales, they continued to keep inventory levels low er than normal ; several merchants 
related that they preferred risking lost sales to having exce ss inventories .  The outlook 
among retail  contacts also improved  with the majority expecting sales to increase  over 
the next couple of months .  District vehicle sales increased from a year  ago, largely 
driven by an expansion in fleet sales  deferred from last year .   
Tourism -related spending was described as stable in most parts of the District .  
Contacts in Atlanta, Miami, Nashville, New Orleans, Orlando, and Tampa all reported 
hotel occupancy rates above the national average from February to March .  Cruise lines 
noted increased demand  and have unwound some earlier price discounting .  The 
near-term outlook among hospitality contacts remain ed generally upbeat .  However, 
corporate bookings remained at very low levels at some high -end resorts.  
Real Estate and Construction .  Homebuilders  reported improved new home 
sales  across the region , and that construction activity increased modestly from very low 
levels .  Several homebuilders noted that difficult y in obtaining mortgage financing  and 
lower property appraisals were impeding sales .  New home inventories remained down , 
sharply from a year earlier , and the majority of homebuilders continued to cite year-over-
VI-2 
year price declines .  Overall , the outlook for home sales and construction improved 
modest ly from the previous report . 
Realtors indicated a slight improvement in existing home sales  with nearly half of 
those contacted reporting modest  increases .  Sales at the low -end of the market continued 
to outpace those at higher price points.  However, sales growth at the low -end moderated 
from late -2009 levels, while mid - to high -end home sales stabilized.   Similar to 
comments  from homebuilders, m any Realtors also noted that difficulty in obtaining 
financing was impeding home sales .  Most continued  to cite downward pressure on home 
prices .  The outlook for sales  over the next several months continu ed to be modestly 
positive.  
Low levels of commercial  construction continued across much of the District .  
Most contractors described  activity as relatively fla t compared with previous report s, and 
a few cited additional weakness .  The volume of backlogs was little changed but 
remained lower than a year  ago.  Most indicated  that the demand for new construction 
continued to be soft .  Looking ahead, the majority of  contacts anticipate d commercial 
construction will continue to be  weak  for the remainder of the year . 
 Manufacturing and Transportation .  The majority of  District manufacturers 
reported that new orders increased and production levels improve d.  Contacts noted 
increased hours worked and many anticipated employment gains in the s hort-term.  A 
few auto assembly plants recalled some workers .  Freight demand continued to  improv e 
from low levels .  Regional r ail shipments through mid -March were up notab ly for 
automotive, chemical, and other raw industrial  material s. 
Banking and Finance .  The flow of bank credit to businesses remained subdued .  
District bankers continue d to indicate  that ample credit was available to qualified 
borrowers , and many  noted th at the volume of loan applications was low for households 
and small business es.  In contrast, several firms noted  that tighter credit standards  were 
making it difficult for them to obtain loans .  Some contacts suggested that t rade credit 
terms also tighten ed with some suppliers having modif ied terms or reduced credit without 
regard to payment history .   
Employment and Prices .  Unemployment remained high across the District in 
February and March .  Some employers indicated that public policy uncertainty had 
VI-3 
contributed to some  reticence to hire permanent workers .  However, many businesses 
continued to increase hours worked for existing staff, and some increased the number of 
temporary staff, particularly in Florida .   
District manufacturing and homebuilder con tacts reported increases in 
commodity -related material prices compared with a year ago, though prices softened 
somewhat on a monthly basis .  Several businesses  expressed concern that supply chain 
capacity reductions in some industries could lead to further input price increases if 
product demand increased rapidly .   
Natural Resources and Agriculture .  Crude oil production in the District edged 
up in late February and March .  The increase in output , combined with soft energy 
consumption , pushed crude inventories in the Gulf of Mexico close to t he top of their 
seasonal average for this time of year .  Recent wet weather and cold er-than-usual 
temperatures have negatively affected some  crops in Alabama  and Florid a and limit ed 
farm  work in some  areas .   
 
 
 VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT —CHICAGO   
Summary .  Economic a ctivity in the Seventh District  improved in M arch, and contacts 
indicated that  consum er and business confidence were on the rise . Manufacturing  continued to lead 
the way , while  consumer and business spending also increased and c redit conditi ons improved . 
Construction , however,  remained weak . Price pressure s were small on balance . The s pring weather 
resulted in good  progress toward normal planting conditions.  
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending increased in March. Retail sales  continued to 
improve, with t he rate of  increase accelerating some in  late March. As in the previous reporting 
period, the strongest performance was for sales of nondurab les and necessities with some 
improvement  in sales of  durable and l uxury goods. Auto sales increased  substantially  in recent 
weeks . Dealers  noted an increase i n showroom traffic as  more  serious buyers were being lured in by 
favorable pricing and credit terms . Furthermore, d ealers also reported that new incentives from 
Toyota were helping to offset some of the decline in their sales in February . The pace of t ourism 
activity increased slightly with hotel occupancy rates rising due in part to cuts in daily rates, 
especially at luxury hotels.  
Business spending.   Business spending also increased from the previou s reporting peri od. 
Contacts indicated that  with overall inventory levels still relatively low , some inventory rebuilding 
was occurring in retail  trade  as well as manufacturing . In a further sign of rising bu siness 
confidence, ca pital expenditures on equipment and merger and acquisition  activity were also noted 
to have increased. Labor mar ket conditions improved slightly  from the previous reporting period . 
Several manufa cturing contacts added  overtime or  additional shifts, and were beginning to consider 
adding more empl oyees with business conditions continuing to improve . Demand also continued to 
be strong for temporary workers  with a  large staffing firm r eporting  that billable hours  had 
increased  substan tially . Some permanent hiring was noted in m anufacturing and retail trade; 
however,  in general , hiring remained limited  with many  firms still wary of adding employees . 
Construction/real estate .  Construction activity remained  weak in March. Residential 
construction  was limited , and contacts noted  downward pricing pressure as builders continued to try 
to compete against short sales and foreclosures in the resale market.   Credit was still tight for 
developers ; but a few smaller builders  reported  that they had  been able to sec ure financing for 
homes that were  expected  to be occupied immediately . Demand  for single -family homes  increased  
some in recent weeks with more purchase contracts being signed  before  the expected  expiration of  
 
 VII-2 
the homebuyer tax credit in April . Demand remained weak for nonresidential constr uction. The 
overhang of vacant  facilities and excess retail space dampened demand for new commercial and 
industrial constr uction, and  contacts reported continued downward pre ssure o n commercial rent s. 
Credit conditions were also still tight for commercial real estate, alt hough a contact cited  very slight 
improvement in credit availability in recent weeks for higher quality properties.  
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing picked  up in March , and contacts indicated business 
confidence was on the rise . Orders  increased , particularly in recent weeks, stemming in part from 
the restock ing of  inventories.  Contacts also reported  that production schedules were beginning to 
firm into the second half of 2010 and viewed this as a sign that some pent -up demand was being 
released now that the economic outlook was improving and less uncertain.  The auto industry 
remained a strong source of growth, as did the pharmaceutical, mining , and energy sectors . Activity 
in the steel industry conti nued to improve , and a contact noted that they were having a hard time 
meeting  demand with the capacity currently on -line. Export activity also remained  strong  with 
developing countries providing  a boost to demand . In contrast, business conditions for 
manufac turers with stro ng ties to construction were  weaker, although  a contact did not e a small 
increase  in the demand for construction equipment.  Credit availability for suppliers and distributors 
remain ed a concern  for manufacturers , with contacts noting  an increase in requests to extend 
payment periods beyond the customary 30 days . Several contacts did indicate , however, that bank 
credit seemed to be more available now than in the recent past.  
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions  improved from the previous reporting period . Banking 
contacts again reported improvement in consumer and business loan qualit y, although credit quality 
for many smaller firms continued to decline.  The pipeline for new loans was still relatively weak . 
Many upper middle market firms were said to be making due with cash reserves, holdin g back on 
borrowing . However, contacts indicated that this may change going into the second half of 2010  as 
some  higher  quality borrowers were  already  beginning to make inquiries now that economic 
conditions were improving.  Credit spreads narrowed for a number of District firms, and volatility 
declined across financial markets. In addition, c ontacts reported that liqu idity continued to improve. 
An exception was the repo mark et where volume  was still very low and bid -ask spre ads wide by 
historical comparis ons. 
Prices/costs .  Price pressure s were small  on balance  in March . Contacts indicated upward 
pressure on  prices for  plywood,  industrial metals,  and petroleum -based fuels , although natural gas 
prices remained at historically low levels . In contrast, r etailers reported no signifi cant change in 
 
 VII-3 
wholesale prices. W age pres sures were minimal . However, an increase in  healthc are costs was 
noted . Pass -through of cost pressures to downstream prices was  limited . 
Agriculture .  The District should have normal planting progress this year, as field 
conditions were better in March than contacts had anticipated previously. Snow cover melted 
gradually enough and rains were spaced out enough to avoid major flooding in the District. Farmers 
in most areas started catching up on field work that was  left undone last fall, especially fertilizer 
applications. There was also harvesting of field s left standing over the winter. Blending together 
poor and better quality corn minimized problems with  the feeding and storing of corn , but some 
farmers were  still stuck wi th lower quality corn. More acres of corn and soybean s were expected to 
be planted than a year ago, as fewer acres  of wheat  were planted. Corn and soybean prices were up 
slightly during the reporting period, while wheat prices declined. Hog and cattle prices increased, 
but milk prices decreased.   
 
 
 
 VIII -1 
Eighth District - St. Louis  
Summary  
Economic conditions in the Eighth District softened in most sectors since our previous 
report.  Manufacturing activity declined on balance , as did activity in the services sector.  
Although residential real estate markets remained weak, home sales and issuance of construction 
permits increased in some metropolitan areas of the District.  Activity in the c ommercial and 
industrial real estate m arkets, construction in particular, remained weak throughout the District.  
Overall lending activity at a sample of small and mid -sized District banks decreased slightly in 
the first quarter of 2010 compared with the fourth quarter of 2009.  
Manufacturing a nd Other Business Activity  
Manufacturing activity declined since our previous report.  Contacts reported more plant 
closures and job layoffs than plant openings and new hires.  Several manufacturers reported 
plans to consolidate operations and lay  off empl oyees, including firms in the appliance; heating, 
ventilation , and air conditioning; steel; and machinery manufacturing  industries .  Furthermore, 
firms in the construction materials , auto parts , and food and beverage manufacturing industries 
announced plan s to close a plant in the District.  In contrast, a major firm in defense goods 
manufacturing announced plans to add new jobs and expand production.  Several small firms in 
food and beverage manufacturing  and metal products manufacturing announced plans to  expand 
operations and hire new workers.  
The District's services sector also continued to decline despite the increase in temporary 
employment from  the 2010 Census.  Several  regional government agencies and education 
services providers announced job cuts i n response to declining budgets.  A major firm in print 
and publishing services announced it will close a facility in the District.  A large medical 
 VIII -2 
services provider also announced significant job cuts  to achieve operational efficiencies.  In 
contrast, a large regional transportation authority was awarded a major contract from the 
Department of Transportation, and a firm in business support services announced plans to hire 
new workers.  Contacts in the retail sector noted the opening of several new establi shments, 
particularly in the food industry.  A major trade show also signed a long -term lease with a 
metropolitan area in the District.  A n auto dealer  noted stronger than expected demand, 
particularly for light sport utility vehicles . 
Real Estate and Cons truction  
Home sales were mixed  in the Eighth District.  Compared with the same period in 2009, 
February 2010 year -to-date home sales were down 5 percent in Little Rock and 9 percent in 
Memphis and St. Louis .  Year -to-date home sales in Louisville, however, were up 16 percent for 
the same period.  Residential construction, on the other hand, is improving throughout most of 
the District.  February 2010 year -to-date single -family housing permits increased in most District 
metro areas compared with the same period in 2009.  Permits increased 17 percent in Louisville, 
30 percent in Memphis, 41 percent in Little Rock, and 60 percent in St. Louis . 
Commercial real estate and construction markets continued to struggle th roughout the 
District.  A contact in St. Louis  expects commercial property foreclosures to rise.  A contact in 
Evansville, I ndiana , reported that major construction is still slow.  A contact in northeast 
Arkansas noted that the only major construction proj ects are related to a local university and 
medical center.  Industrial real estate and construction contacts throughout most of the District 
also continued to report a sluggish environment.  A contact in Louisville described the first -
quarter industrial re al estate market as dismal.  A contact in Memphis, however, indicated that 
 VIII -3 
industrial real estate may be showing signs of improvement.  A contact in St. Louis  expects little 
to no speculative industrial construction to take place in 2010.  
Banking and Finan ce 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid -sized District banks decreased 2.7 
percent in the first quarter of 2010  relative to the fourth quarter of 2009 .  Lending activity in 
various sectors was mixed, however.  Real estate lending, which acc ounts for 73.6 percent of 
total loans, decreased 2.3 percent.  Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 16.1 percent 
of total loans, decreased 4.9 percent.  Loans to individuals, accounting for 5.6 percent of loans, 
increased 3.3 percent.  All other  loans decreased 8.3 percent.  Over this period, total deposits 
increased 0.6 percent.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
Total winter wheat acreage in the District states in 2010 decreased by 41 percent from 
2009 levels, and most of each state’s crop was r eported to be in fair or good condition.  Farmers 
in the District reported that they expect to plant 5 percent more acres of corn and 10 percent 
more acres of both cotton and rice in 2010 than in 2009.   In contrast, they anticipate planting 6 
percent fewer  acres of sorghum and 4 percent fewer acres of tobacco than last year.  They expect 
to plant the same number of ac res of soybeans as last year.  
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT --MINNEAPOLIS  
The Ninth District economy grew moderately since  the last report . Consumer spending, 
tourism, residential real estate and construction, services, manufacturing, energy, mining  
and agriculture saw increases. Commercial real estate was flat at low levels , and 
construction  activity was slow . Labor markets remained weak, but some signs of hiring 
were noted. Overall compensation levels were flat , and price increases were moderate.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism  
Consumer spending increased mode stly. A Minneapolis -St. Paul area mall noted that 
February same -store sales were up 7 percent compared with a year ago; traffic levels 
were up even more. A major Minneapolis -based retailer reported that same -store sales in 
February were up about 2 percent compared with a year earlier. Recent retail activity in 
Great Falls, Mont., has picked up modestly; Canadian traffic was solid. A Minnesota -
based restaurant and bar chain noted that March sales and guest counts were up over 5 
percent compared with a year ago, while another Minnesota -based restaurant chain 
reported that March sales  were  down 2 percent.  
Vehicle sales picked up in March compared with a year ago when sales were 
substantially down. A number of dealerships in the Minneapolis -St. Paul area reported 
that sales were up over 40 percent in March compared with a year ago; strong incentives 
by automakers helped boost sales. Recent vehicle sales have been steady in North 
Dakota, according to a representative of an auto dea lers association.   
Overall travel and tourism activity was up slightly. A ski resort in northern 
Minnesota  noted that February and March ski lift sales and lodging were higher than a 
year ago. A Minnesota -based travel agency noted that corporate travel during February 
and March was up slightly from a year ago. Winter tourism activity was about even with a 
year ago in Montana, but tourism -based businesses noted an uptick in February a nd 
March, according to an official. In northwestern Wisconsin , excellent snow conditions  
boosted snowmobiling and cross -country skiing in February; warm weather in March 
brought an early end to snow sports, but tourism businesses are optimistic for the sum mer 
season.  
Construction and Real Estate  
Commercial construction was weak. February nonresidential permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., 
were substantially lower than a year earlier. A producer of commercial construction 
IX-2 
materials said demand has been slackening. However, sever al hotel and medical 
developments are in progress in Great Falls, Mont.  
Meanwhile, residential construction showed signs of strengthening. March home  
building permits for the Minneapolis -St. Paul area more than doubled in value from  the 
same  month a year earlier —their highest level since 2007 —primarily due to gains in the 
multifamily sector. In contrast, February  residential permits in Sioux Falls decreased 21 
percent from a year earlier. Construction activity in western Montana continues to be 
very slow, according to developers there.  
 Commercial real estate was flat at low levels. A commercial real estate broker in 
Fargo, N.D. , said vacancy rates were down slightly for office properties, but the industrial 
segment was weaker. A Minnesota co mmercial broker said rents there were at their 
lowest levels since 1990.  
Residential real estate continued to rebound. Closed sales in late March were 11 
percent higher than a year earlier in Minneapolis -St. Paul , and sales prices increased. 
Sales also pi cked up in w estern Montana, due in part to big reductions in asking prices . 
Services  
Overall activity increased  slightly in the professional business services  sector  since the last 
report . Contacts from information technology and Web development firms noted solid 
orders. A law firm that specializes in debt collections and another that specializes in 
bankruptcies were expanding due to strong demand.  However, contacts from  other law 
firms indicated that new business  was unchanged . Architects indicate d flat activity at low 
levels.  
Manufacturing  
Manufacturing output  was up since the last report . A March  survey of purchasing 
managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed  that manufacturing activity  
increased significantly in Minnesota and South Dakota and was flat in North Dakota . A 
small Minnesota transmitter maker plans to expand into a larger facility.  In North Dakota, 
a wind energy component manufacturer plans to build a plant.  
Energy and Mining  
Activity  in the energy and mining sectors increased since the last report . Late-March  oil 
exploration increased significantly from early February . A major electrical utility recently 
announced plans for a large-scale wind energy farm in western  Minnesota . Several sources 
IX-3 
noted s olid prices and demand for iron ore , as production in February  increased slightly 
from January  levels.  
Agriculture  
Agricultur al activity increased . The calving season was progressing very well due to the 
mild end to winter across most of the District. Cattle producers were optimistic , as they 
expect ed a continued  uptick in output prices. District farmers plan ned to plant 3 percent 
more soybean  acres, 4 percent fewer  wheat acres and about the same number of corn acres 
as last  year, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Meanwhile, producers of 
organic agricultural products noted a decrease in demand , and dairy producers were 
concerned about softening in output prices.  
Employment, Wages and Prices  
Labor markets remained weak, but some signs of hi ring were noted. A tractor supply 
store in eastern Montana reported receiving more than 30 applications for every job 
opening. Employers in the Sioux Falls area noted a relatively large number of 
applications for seasonal jobs. Also in South Dakota, 35 wor kers were laid off at a 
technology firm, and about 25 workers were laid off at a business outsourcing company. 
A North Dakota manufacturer announced plans to lay off 60 workers.  
In contrast, t wo employment placement firms in Minnesota reported an increase 
in hiring for some entry level positions and an increased interest in executive placement 
services. Also in Minnesota, a bank announced intentions to hire more wealth 
management advisors, a wi nd energy project just under  way will create 150 jobs and an 
auto dea ler will hire 15 salespeople.  
Overall wages were flat , as a number of contacts noted that wages and salaries at 
their companies were level with a year earlier. The University of Minnesota ’s faculty 
senate recently approved a measure to cut pay temporarily for most University employees 
by about 1 percent.  
Price increases were moderate. Minnesota gasoline prices at the end of March 
were up slightly from the end of February. However, copper a nd nickel prices increased 
since the last report, as well as some prices for lumber and steel products.  
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT  - KANSAS CITY  
 
The Tenth District economy expanded moderately  during March , and District contacts 
expected economic conditions to improve further in coming months. Warmer weather conditions 
led to increased retail traffic and supported a modest rebound in consumer spending, generating 
some optimism among District contacts. Manufacturin g and transportation activity continued 
their steady rebound, resulting in a few new hires. District housing activity r ose and contacts 
anticipated further improvements in coming months. In contrast, commercial construction 
activity continued to wane. Ener gy activity expanded further, but natural gas production was 
expected to ease with slower summer demand. Agricultural conditions remained solid as 
livestock profits improved and strong crop profitability boosted planting expectations this spring. 
Wage pres sures remained muted and retail prices held steady, but some manufacturers were 
considering raising selling prices due to higher raw material costs . 
Consumer Spending.   Consumer spending rebounded in March as customer traffic 
improved with warmer weather. Retailers reported higher than expected sales and were 
optimistic that business activity would continue to recover. Apparel items sold well , and demand 
for lower -priced durable goods rose. After months of declines, auto dealers reported steady sales 
in Mar ch and were hopeful that increased showroom traffic would spur purchases. Mid -size cars 
and SUVs were in greatest  demand. Restaurants reported more diners but less spending per 
check, resulting in flat sales. Travel and tourism activity edged up and was ex pected to 
strengthen further approaching vacation season. District hotel owners reported higher average 
room rates and increased occupancy.    
Manufacturing  and Other Business Activity .  Manufacturing and transportation 
activity expanded solid ly since the l ast survey period.  Manufacturing production improved to  
near year -ago levels as slightly slower growth  at non -durable goods plants was offset by stronger  
durable goods production. A mode rate rise in shipments and exports reduced inventories and the 
backlog of orders increased slightly . Producer expectations for future factory activity improved 
with sustained growth in new order volumes. Employment levels held steady during the survey 
period, but more manufacturers planned to increase payrolls over th e next six months. Capital 
spending plans, however, remained largely on hold. After rebounding in the last survey period, 
sales activity in the transportation sector rose further, but firms were concerned about rising fuel 
 
 X-2  
costs. Some trucking companies we re hiring qualified drivers. The high -tech industry reported a 
decline in demand for commercial consulting services as clients cut costs. However, an increase 
in projects  to retro -fit existing facilities to maximize efficiency  was noted . 
Real Estate and Co nstruction .  Residential real estate activity strengthened in March, 
while commercial real estate activity weakened further. Residential builders reported a n upswing 
in building starts after the harsh winter. Home sales and buyer traffic moved higher, thou gh sales 
prices fell slightly with a rise in existing home inventories. The home buyer’s tax credit 
continued to support the starter home market, but District contacts expected slower sales after the 
incentive program expires. Sales of higher priced homes remained sluggish. Mortgage lenders 
reported an increase in home purchase loans while loan refinancing volumes declined. 
Construction supply firms anticipated stronger sales for new construction materials as well as 
higher consumer demand for home improvem ent supplies. In contrast, commercial real estate 
activity remained well below year -ago levels. Contacts also noted that few new construction 
projects had qualified for financing due to continued tight credit conditions. Vacancy rates edged 
higher, rents f ell further, and sales were expected to remain sluggish. Leasing concessions were 
common as landlords tried to retain current tenants and attract new ones. Some distressed 
commercial properties were being put on the market and more were expected to follow.  
Banking.  Bankers reported lower loan demand, stable deposits, and an unchanged 
outlook for loan quality.  Overall loan demand declined at a slightly faster pace than in the 
previous survey.  Demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans 
fell moderately.  Demand also declined somewhat for residential real estate loans and consumer 
installment loans.  A few banks tightened credit standards on commercial real estate loans, but 
credit standards for other loan categories were gene rally unchanged.  Somewhat fewer banks 
than in the previous survey reported lower quality than a year ago.  As in the previous survey, 
however, about a third of respondents expected loan quality to decline over the next six months.  
Deposits continued to s how little change overall.  Several respondents said that some of their 
depositors were shifting funds to alternative investments such as stocks and bonds in search of 
higher yields.  
Energy.  Energy activity expanded during the survey period , and additiona l modest gains 
were expected in the coming months. After rising in March, the number of active rigs in the 
District approached year -ago levels. Several firms planned to hire additional staff, primarily 
 
 X-3  
engineers and skilled labor. Crude oil prices were exp ected to rise due to a seasonal uptick in 
demand and improv ement in the world econom y.  Natural gas prices, however, were expected to 
decline with excess supply and lower summer demand.  Some contacts noted that the expansion 
in drilling activity could be constrained by the availability of labor, equipment, supplies, and 
financing. A Wyoming producer also noted difficulty obtaining drilling permits and a decline in 
land lease sales which could also hinder future development. District coal production increas ed 
in March, but remained below year -ago levels. Ethanol profit margins have fallen below capital 
costs and biodiesel production remains stalled after the loss of a federal tax credit eliminated 
profits.  
Agriculture .  Agricultural conditions improved since the last survey period. Livestock 
prices strengthened in March boosting profitability, especially for cattle producers, and prices 
were  expected to rise further with smaller supplies.  Crop prices edged down in March with the 
prospects of increased plantings and bumper crops. The winter wheat crop was reported in 
generally good condition. District plantings of corn and soybeans were  expected to increase this 
year, most notably in Kansas where winter wheat plantings dec lined. Soil moisture levels were 
more than adequate and contacts were concerned that excessively wet fields could delay spring 
planting again this year. Lenders reported ample funds were available to satisfy rising demand 
for farm operating loans in prepar ation for spring planting. Cropland values remained solid with 
limited sales activity.  
Wages and Prices .   Wages held steady since the last survey period , and some factories 
considered raising selling prices in coming months as raw materials prices rose fu rther . Contacts 
reported little wage pressure in District labor markets, and most companies hiring new workers 
were not offering higher salaries to attract qualified applicants. Input prices rose in March and 
were expected to rise further in coming months.  District manufacturers reported additional 
increases in prices paid for raw materials . Builders and construction supply companies stated that 
prices for construction materials increased , especially for roofing shingles and asphalt . 
Transportation companie s paid higher prices for fuel, and restaurant owners noted  higher food 
costs. Some manufacturers planned to raise selling prices in the months ahead. Most retailers, 
however, did not anticipate raising prices , and restaurants expected menu prices to remain  flat.   
XI-1 
 
 ELEVENTH DISTRICT —DALLAS   
 
Economic activity in the Eleventh District firmed up further over the past six weeks . Respondents 
in high -tech manufacturing, retail, residential real estate, energy  and staffing and  transportation services  
cited continued improvement in demand . Conditions  in the commercial  real estate, financial services and 
construction -related manufacturing  sectors  also showed  signs of nearing  bottom . Although respondents 
continued to express caution  in their outlooks , overall expectations were slightly more optimistic than the 
last report . 
 Prices    Weak demand, excess capacity and c ompetition continued to put downward pressure on 
selling prices  or fees across several industries , and some contact s noted lowering prices to keep the 
business . There were reports of an uptick in ra w materials prices for steel, fuel, cotton and  sugar . Rising 
raw material costs are squeezing margins as many contacts are unable to pass  on these increase s to clients.     
 Crude oil prices rose from $ 75 in mid -February to over $80 per barrel  in late March . On-highway 
prices  for diesel and gasoline  followed suit, rising nearly 20 cents per gallon . Prices of chemicals and 
related products also rose sharply largely due to plant outages.  In contrast, n atural gas prices slipped from 
$5.50 per Mcf to near $4 during the reporting period due to continued high levels of production, low 
industrial demand and the end of the winter  season .  
Labor Market    Employment levels held steady at most respondent firms . Layoffs have subsided 
but most firms are hesitant to hire new employees. On a more positive note , staffing firms continued to 
cite increased hiring activity, and there were reports from a few high-tech manufacturing , paper  and 
lumber industry respondents that temporary hiring had edged up . A high -tech manufacturer noted opening 
a new plant , while a large discount chain operator said they were opening new stores and expand ing 
headcount  albeit at a much slower pace than before the recession . Additionally, some energy  service and 
transportation manufacturing firms  noted an uptick in hiring . Wage pressures were nonexistent , and a 
handful of f irms reported they planned on partially reinst ating  employer matches to employee 401 (k) 
plans or on giving small pay increases.  
 Manufacturing    Reports from c onstruction -related manufacturers were mixed , but overall they 
suggest that activity has bottomed out . Some firms noted that favorable weather in March led to an uptick 
in orders, while others reported continued weakness. Contacts say that w hile the “worst may be over” , 
they expect a slow  recovery in business . Fabricated metals producers cited  a sharp rise in orders, and 
reported a positive sales outlook for the next three months.  
 Producers  of trailers reported a large increase in orders  over the past month , and added that they 
were building up inventories to better meet customers’ needs. Manu facturers of emergency vehicle s said 
growth in orders decelerated  over the past six weeks  as customers, particularly municipalities, are 
XI-2 
 
 experiencing a decline in tax revenues . An aircraft components manufacturer  reported  an uptick in 
demand  but said that orders remained significantly below year-ago levels.  
 Paper manufacturing firms cited flat to rising demand . Respondents say conditions have 
improved relative to last year , but the picture is far from rosy and expectations are for a slow and  gradual 
recovery . Food producers said  demand held steady over the past month , and noted a positive sales outlook 
for the year . 
 Respondents in high -tech manufacturing reported that orders continue d to accelerate and the 
book -to-bill ratio was well above one. Contacts say inventories have increased slightly bu t still remain 
below desired levels. In an industry where prices typically fall, strong deman d has helped stabilize prices. 
Most respondents are cautiously optimistic that demand will remai n solid over the next three to six 
months.  
 Petrochemical producers report  that ethylene plant outages have led to large increases in prices 
for ethylene and other related products such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride , which has dampened 
export dema nd for these products . Refinery margins remain very weak, and capacity utilization rates are 
below 80 percent .  
  Retail    Retail sales  rose further during the reporting per iod. Large discount store chains noted  an 
increase in demand especially for electronics and household items , and d epartment store sales were also 
better than expected. Contacts say although consumers remain cautious, they are regaining confidence 
and are more willing to spend . Outlooks remain  guarded  but contacts expect continued  improvement in 
sales  throughout the  year.  
Automobile sales rose  over the past six weeks , which c ontacts attributed to improving consumer 
confidence. Inventories remain lean. Prices are flat but rebates recently introduced by Toyota, have led 
other automotive manufacturers to follow suit.  
 Services    Staffing firms say orders are streaming in at a solid pace and are well ahead of last 
year. Demand is s till largely for contract work, but direct hire placements are picking up  pace. Sustained 
growth in orders has boosted contacts' assessments of current conditions as well as the ir near -term 
outlook . Accou nting firms note that demand outside of tax related services remains sluggish . Demand for 
legal services held relatively flat at low levels , with the exception of a slight  uptick in energy -related 
activity . 
 Reports from transportation service firms were generally positive . Strong overseas demand 
pushed up intermodal cargo volumes over the past month . Small parcel shipping firms said a pickup in 
demand from the professional and business service s, manufacturing and non durable retail sectors led to 
positive growth in  volumes . Railroads reported a modest  but broad -based increase in shipments, and 
noted that the outlook is more upbeat  than last time. Airline demand appears to be slowly improving , with 
XI-3 
 
 leisure travel seei ng continued growth and business travel stabilizing.  Contacts expect demand for air 
travel to be steady  this year . 
Construction an d Real Estate   Housing contacts noted more favorable conditions. Builders said 
sales in the first three months of the year were relatively strong, especially at the low end. Sales of higher 
priced homes are happening but they are not as widespread. Given the severe cutback in construction in 
the first quarter of 2009, builders have been pro -active in adding spec homes in hopes of sales and 
closings before the expirat ion of the current tax credit. Realtors were encourag ed that prices were up 
slightly and noted the housing market was in the beginnings of a modest rebound. Overall, housing 
contacts were mo re positive in their outlooks.  
Apartment demand in most Texas markets was “meaningfully positive,” according to contact s. 
New product was leasing well and there were fewer move -outs in older units, consistent with an 
improving job market. Lower rents were “doing their job” and generating positive demand. The exception 
was Houston, where overall leasing was weaker.  
 Report s from commercial real estate contacts were mixed, but overall they suggest the sector may 
be nearing bottom. Declining rental rates have spurred leasing activity in the office and industrial 
markets. One industrial contact noted that landlords have “taken  a realistic look” at conditions and are 
offering drastic reduction in rental rates on renewals. Respondents noted that while absorption had 
improved, there would be no construction any time soon. Commercial property sales activity picked up 
from very low levels. Contacts said while the good deals being offered were minimal; there were many 
interested buyers and lenders. Outlooks for the commercial real estate sector were mixed, with some 
contacts expecting continued improvement and others anticipating a lo nger, rocky road ahead.   
 Financial Services    Loan demand remains soft  but appears to be stabilizing. Contacts are seeing 
more commercial and industrial loan activity in the pipeline as well as some improvement in credit card 
volumes and consumer loan demand, albeit with more aggressive pricing. Real estate lending is still 
restricted . Deposit growth has been relatively flat, and lending standards remain tight . Credit quality 
appears to have turne d a corner, and is either stabiliz ing or improving. Despite a shift towards 
stabilization and slight optimism, much uncertainty remains around impending regulatory changes , 
particularly for community banks . Overall, most contacts expect  growth in revenues and loan demand to 
be slightly pos itive this year. 
Energy    The rig count rose further over the past six weeks . Oil-directed drilling continued to be 
boosted by rising oil prices. Contacts say the increase in gas-directed drilling is not justifiable at current 
low prices, but firms are drilling based on futures prices locked in earlier, to hold leases and to learn the 
shale  technology. There is concern that gas -directed drilling will decline  in the second half of the year. 
Demand for oil and gas services and equipment continues to g row with the rig count.   
XI-4 
 
  Agriculture   Wet weather continues to boost pasture growth . It has, however, delayed spring 
planting in some areas , which may lead producers to shift away from corn in favor of crops with shorter 
planting seasons  such as cotton and grain sorghum . Net farm income is expected to be higher in 2010 
compared with last year but below the ten -year average.  
 
 
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT –SAN FRANCISCO  
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District  continued to improve modestly  during the reporting 
period of  late February into early April .  Upward  price pressures were quite limited , and upward wage 
pressures were largely absent.   Sales of r etail items  and services remained somewhat sluggish, but both 
continued to show signs of improved  demand.   District manufacturing activity firmed a bit further, with 
improvement noted even in the sectors that have been among the  most troubled , such as  metal fabrication 
and wood products.   Sales continued to expand  for agricultural produc ts, while demand for energy 
resources was mixed .  Housing demand appeared to be little changed from the previous period, but 
conditions in commer cial real estate  erode d a bit further  on net .  Contacts from financial institutions  
reported largely  stable  lending activity and further declines in credit quality.  
Wages and Prices  
 Upward price pressures  were limited  on net  during  the reporting period.  The prices of oil and 
selected industrial  commodities such as steel rose.   Contacts  also reported price increases for 
transportation services, notably for transpacific shipping.  More generally, however, contacts in various  
sectors noted that final prices for a wide variety of retail items and services continued to be held down by 
weak demand.  
 Upward wage pressures remained largely nonexistent , although  businesses continued to report 
significant  increases in the costs of employee benefits , such as health insurance and pensions.  High levels 
of unemployment throughout the District kept wage pressures  to a minimum , and contacts  noted 
continuing  work  furloughs and hiring freezes  in some sectors .  Rising reliance on temporary workers in 
some s ectors put additional downward pressure on wages  for permanent employees . 
Retail Trade and Services  
  Sales of retail items continued to improve but remained somewhat sluggish  on net.   Discount 
chains and traditional department stores reported further sales gains , and  although  consumers continued to 
focus their purchases on necessities, a few contacts pointed to increase s in discretionary spending.   
XII - 2 
Retailers of furniture, appliance s, and electronic items  noted improved sales .  Demand  remained strong 
for grocers, although contacts reported  disruption s in supplies of fresh produce caused by the earthquake 
in Chile .  Sales of n ew automobiles  firmed  somewhat  as dealers stepped up their  promotional activit ies.  
Sales of u sed automobiles  rose strong ly, but contacts noted that  limited supply and rising prices may 
restrain sales going forward.  Contacts  in general  expect consumer spending  to strengthen further  in the 
second quarter of 2010.  
 Demand for services remained lackluster overall but showed further signs of improvement  on 
balance .  Contacts in the restaurant and food services industry noted modest increases in demand.  For 
providers of professional and media services , sales were largely stable at low levels, although they rose 
slightly  for some catego ries.  Energy  utilities reported increased demand from households and from 
businesses in selected industries , notably  large retail establishments and firms in  the technology , health 
services, and lodging  sectors .  Conditions improved a bit further in the tourism and leisure sector :  
contacts in the Southern California and Seattle  markets  noted recent increases in  hotel occupancy rates , 
while contacts in Hawaii and Las Vegas saw additional  increases  in visitor volumes.    
Manufacturing  
  District manufacturi ng activity  continued to improve during the reporting period of late February 
into early April.   Demand strengthened further for m anufacturers of semiconductors and other technology 
products, with reports pointing to rising sales and high levels of capacity utilization.   New orders 
remained limited for m akers of commercial aircraft and parts, but existing order backlog s generally  held 
production  rates  at or near capacity.  Demand improved modestly for  struggling companies in the  metal 
fabricat ion and wood products  sectors , although capacity  utilization  remained at  extremely low  levels .  
Activity at  petroleum refiner ies remained well below the  five-year average  levels , as producers work ed 
down excess inventories  arising from weak demand for gasoline .   
Agriculture and Resource -related Industries  
 Demand remained strong  for agricultural producers  but was mixed for providers of natural 
resources used for energy production.  Sales rose further for assorted crops and livestock products .  
XII - 3 
Agricultural contac ts indicated no changes in the availability  of key inputs , and  favorable weather in 
many parts of the District continued to enhance production  conditions  for a range of agricultural products.   
Oil extraction activity remained at relatively low levels  but rose somewhat during the reporting period in 
response to modest increases in global demand , while demand for natural gas fell as a result of warmer 
weather but otherwise showed scattered signs of firming.   
Real Estate an d Construction  
 
 Housing d emand in the District appeared to be largely stable on net, while demand for 
commercial real estate continued to sli de.  The pace of home sa les remained mixed across areas  but 
appeared  largely stable  overall, while home prices edge d up further  in some parts  of the District.  
However, contacts  noted that continued limitation s on the availability of nonconforming “jumbo” loans  
have restrain ed sales of higher -priced homes  in some areas .  Conditions deteriorated further in 
commercial real estate market s, as vacancy rates  for office and industrial space rose in many parts of the 
District.   However, one contact reported  continued improvements in leasing activity for some market 
segments  in parts  of the District, along with increased availability of financing  for co mmercial real estate 
transactions .  Regarding near -term expectations, contacts  in general  anticipate that demand for housing in 
the District will improve modestly in the second quarter of 2010 , while a majority expects  no 
improvement in demand for  commercial real estate  in the second quarter .  
Financial Institutions  
 District banking contacts reported that loan demand was largely stable or up  slightly  compared 
with previous reporting periods.  Consumer loan demand remained weak overall, and commercial and 
industrial loan volumes continued to be restrained by businesses’ cautious attitude s towards capital 
spending.  However, scattered reports indicated a small pickup in commercial and industrial loan demand 
stemming from  selected  businesses  that are planning to replace worn equipment and rebuild  inventor ies.  
Lending standards continued to be relatively restrictive for consumer and business lending , and banks 
reported additional loan losses.  Further  modest  gains  in levels of  venture capital  funding were noted .  