The Beige Book
Summar y of Commentar y on
Current Economic Conditions b y
Federal Reser ve District
April 2025
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
Contents
About This Publication ................................................................................................... .ii
National Summar y.......................................................................................................... .1
Federal Reser ve Bank of Boston ................................................................................. .5
Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York............................................................................. .9
Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia ...................................................................... .13
Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland ........................................................................... .17
Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond .......................................................................... .21
Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta ............................................................................... .25
Federal Reser ve Bank of Chicago ............................................................................. .29
Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis ............................................................................ .32
Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis ...................................................................... .36
Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas City ....................................................................... .40
Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas ................................................................................. .44
Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco ................................................................... .48i
About This Publication
What is the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is a F ederal Reser ve System publication about cur rent economic conditions
across the 12 F ederal Reser ve Districts. It characterizes regional economic conditions and pros-
pects based on a variet y of mostl y qualitati ve infor mation, gathered directl y from each District’ s
sources. Repor ts are published eight times per year .
What is the pur pose of the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is intended to characterize the change in economic conditions since the last
repor t. Outreach for the Beige Book is one of man y ways the F ederal Reser ve System engages
with businesses and other organizations about economic de velopments in their communities.
Because this infor mation is collected from a wide range of contacts through a variet y of for mal
and infor mal methods, the Beige Book can complement other for ms of regional infor mation gath-
ering. The Beige Book is not a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.
How is the infor mation collected?
Each F ederal Reser ve Bank gather s infor mation on cur rent economic conditions in its District
through repor ts from Bank and Branch director s, plus inter views and online questionnaires com-
pleted b y businesses, communit y organizations, economists, mar ket experts, and other sources.
Contacts are not selected at random; rather , Banks stri ve to curate a di verse set of sources that
can pro vide accurate and objecti ve infor mation about a broad range of economic acti vities. The
Beige Book ser ves as a regular summar y of this infor mation for the public.
How is the infor mation used?
The infor mation from contacts supplements the data and anal ysis used b y Federal Reser ve econo -
mists and staff to assess economic conditions in the F ederal Reser ve Districts. The qualitati ve
nature of the Beige Book creates an o pportunity to characterize dynamics and identify emerging
trends in the econom y that ma y not be readil y app arent in the a vailable economic data. This infor-
Note: The F ederal Reser ve officiall y identifies Districts b y number and Reser ve Bank cit y. In the 12th District, the Seattle
Branch ser ves Alaska, and the San F rancisco Bank ser ves Haw aii. The System ser ves commonw ealths and ter ritories as
follows: the Ne w York Bank ser ves the Commonw ealth of Puer to Rico and the U.S. V irgin Islands; the San F rancisco Bank
serves American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonw ealth of the Nor thern Mariana Islands. The Board of Go vernors revised
the branch boundaries of the System in F ebruary 1996.ii
mation enables comp arison of economic conditions in different p arts of the countr y, which can be
helpful for assessing the outlook for the national econom y.
The Beige Book does not ha ve the type of infor mation I’m looking
for. What other infor mation is a vailable?
The F ederal Reser ve System conducts a wide ar ray of recur ring sur veys of businesses, house-
holds, and communit y organizations. A list of statistical releases compiled b y the F ederal Reser ve
Board is a vailable here, links to each of the F ederal Reser ve Banks are a vailable here, and a sum-
mary of the System’ s communit y outreach is a vailable here. In addition, Fed Listens  events ha ve
been held around the countr y to hear about how monetar y polic y affects peo ples’ daily lives and
livelihoods. The System also relies on a variet y of advisor y councils —whose member s are draw n
from a wide ar ray of businesses, non-profit organizations, and communit y groups—to hear di verse
perspecti ves on the econom y in car rying out its responsibilities.iii The Beige Book
National Summar y
Overall Economic Activity
Economic acti vity was little changed since the pre vious repor t, but uncer tainty around inter national
trade polic y was per vasive across repor ts. Just fi ve Districts saw slight growth, three Districts
noted acti vity was relati vely unchanged, and the remaining four Districts repor ted slight to modest
declines. Non-auto consumer spending w as low er overall; how ever, most Districts saw moderate to
robust sales of vehicles and of some nondurables, generall y attributed to a r ush to purchase
ahead of tariff-related price increases. Both leisure and business tra vel were dow n, on balance,
and se veral Districts noted a decline in inter national visitor s. Home sales rose some what, and
many Districts continued to note low in ventor y levels. Commercial real estate (CRE) acti vity
expanded slightl y as multifamil y propped up the industrial and office sector s. Loan demand w as
flat to modestl y higher , on net. Se veral Districts saw a deterioration in demand for non-financial
services. T ranspor tation acti vity expanded modestl y, on balance. Manufacturing w as mixed, but
two-thirds of Districts said acti vity was little changed or had declined. The energ y sector e xperi-
enced modest growth. Agricultural conditions w ere fair ly stable across multiple Districts. Cuts to
federal grants and subsidies along with declines in philanthro pic donations caused gaps in ser-
vices pro vided b y man y communit y organizations. The outlook in se veral Districts wor sened consid-
erably as economic uncer tainty, particular ly surrounding tariffs, rose.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as little changed to up slightl y in most Districts, with one District repor ting a modest
increase, four repor ting a slight increase, four repor ting no change, and three repor ting a slight decline.
This is a slight deterioration from the pre vious repor t with a fe w more Districts repor ting declines. Hiring
was generall y slow er for consumer-facing fir ms than for business-to -business fir ms. The most notable
declines in headcount w ere in go vernment roles or roles at organizations recei ving go vernment funding .
Several Districts repor ted that fir ms were taking a w ait-and-see approach to emplo yment, p ausing or
slowing hiring until there is more clarit y on economic conditions. In addition, there w ere scattered
reports of fir ms prep aring for la yoffs. Most Districts and mar kets repor ted an impro vement in o verall
labor a vailabilit y, although there w ere some repor ts of constraints on labor suppl y resulting from shifting
immigration policies in cer tain sector s and regions. W ages generall y grew at a modest p ace, as w age
growth slow ed from the pre vious repor t in multiple Districts.
Note: This repor t was prep ared at the F ederal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta based on infor mation collected on or before
April 14, 2025. This document summarizes comments recei ved from contacts outside the F ederal Reser ve System and is
not a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.1
Prices
Prices increased across Districts, with six characterizing price growth as modest and six characterizing
it as moderate, similar to the pre vious repor t. Most Districts noted that fir ms expected ele vated input
cost growth resulting from tariffs. Man y firms ha ve already recei ved notices from supplier s that costs
would be increasing . Firms repor ted adding tariff surcharges or shor tening pricing horizons to account
for uncer tain trade polic y. Most businesses e xpected to p ass through additional costs to customer s.
However, there w ere repor ts about margin compression amid increased costs, as demand remained
tepid in some sector s, especiall y for consumer-facing fir ms.
Highlights b y Federal Reser ve District
Boston
Economic acti vity increased slightl y, as the outlook became more pessimistic on tariff-related con-
cerns. Prices rose modestl y, but contacts percei ved ne w upside risks to inflation. Emplo yment
edged up, although hiring plans became more cautious in response to increased uncer tainty. IT
services contacts e xperienced strong re venue growth and w ere expected to be relati vely unaf-
fected b y tariffs. 
New York
Economic acti vity contracted modestl y as heightened uncer tainty weighed on businesses and con-
sumer s. Emplo yment w as steady to up slightl y. Price increases pick ed up to the higher end of the
moderate range. Businesses e xpressed significant concer n about tariffs. Outlooks dar kened, with
many businesses anticip ating declining acti vity and rising prices.
Philadelphia
Business acti vity declined modestl y during the cur rent Beige Book period after a slight decrease in
the last period. Nonmanufacturing acti vity fell moderatel y. Emplo yment declined slightl y; wages
and prices again gre w modestl y. Generall y, sentiment fell, and fir ms gre w less o ptimistic about
future growth amid rising economic uncer tainty.
Cleveland
Repor ts sug gested that F ourth District business acti vity continued to be flat in recent w eeks, and
contacts e xpected acti vity to remain flat in the months ahead. Consumer spending declined,
though some auto dealer s noted customer s pulling forw ard purchases ahead of potential tariffs.
Emplo yment le vels increased slightl y, and w age pressures remained moderate.2 The Beige Book
Richmond
The regional econom y grew slightl y in recent w eeks despite some pock ets of w eakness tied to fed-
eral staffing and contract spending . Consumer spending w as flat. Residential and commercial real
estate acti vity pick ed up slightl y. Non-financial ser vice pro viders repor ted a modest decline in
demand and hesitation from customer s to mak e investment decisions. Emplo yment w as little
changed and price growth remained moderate amid upw ard price pressures from tariffs.
Atlanta
The Sixth District econom y grew slightl y. Emplo yment w as flat. W ages, nonlabor costs, and fir ms’
prices increased modestl y. Retail sales fell slightl y, and tra vel and tourism declined modestl y.
Home sales rose modestl y. Commercial real estate conditions softened. T ranspor tation acti vity
grew slowl y. Loan growth w as moderate. Manufacturing declined. Energ y acti vity rose slowl y.
Chicago
Economic acti vity was little changed. Consumer spending increased modestl y; emplo yment and
constr uction and real estate acti vity were up slightl y; manufacturing w as flat; business spending
declined slightl y; and nonbusiness contacts saw a slight decline in acti vity. Prices increased mod-
estly, wages rose slightl y, and financial conditions tightened. Prospects for 2025 far m income
were unchanged.
St. Louis
Economic acti vity has remained unchanged, but the outlook has slightl y deteriorated. Hea vy rains
negati vely imp acted neighborhoods, far ms, and businesses. Contacts e xpressed a lot of uncer-
tainty and an ele vated effor t in estimating the imp act of tariffs and w ays to reduce cost increases
and suppl y disr uptions.
Minneapolis
District economic acti vity was low er. Emplo yment declined and labor demand continued to soften.
Wage growth w as modest, and price increases w ere moderate. Consumer spending w as low er with
some e xceptions. Manufacturing e xperienced modest impro vements. Constr uction acti vity fell
overall. Commercial real estate w as mostl y unchanged, and home sales declined. Agricultural con-
ditions remained w eak.
Kansas City
Economic acti vity in the T enth District gre w slightl y, but e xpectations about business acti vity and
consumer spending w eakened considerabl y. Amid shifting conditions, businesses indicated the y
were most lik ely to adjust pricing to adapt. Ex pectations of price growth rose at a robust rate,
most pronounced in goods sector s. Emplo yment le vels w ere stable but hiring stalled.National Summar y 3
Dallas
Growth in the Ele venth District econom y slow ed to a slight p ace. Nonfinancial ser vices acti vity
stalled. Retail sales dipped while manufacturing and oil field acti vity rose modestl y. Lending
growth moderated. Commercial real estate acti vity was steady , while housing demand remained
tepid. Emplo yment increased, and input cost pressures accelerated. Outlooks deteriorated as
heightened uncer tainty surrounding domestic and trade polic y hindered fir ms’ abilit y to plan.
San F rancisco
Economic acti vity slow ed slightl y. Emplo yment fell slightl y. Wages gre w slightl y, and prices rose
modestl y. Demand for business and consumer ser vices and for retail goods w eakened. Acti vity in
manufacturing and residential and commercial real estate mar kets softened slightl y. Lending
activity and conditions in agriculture w ere stable. The economic outlook wor sened materiall y.4 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Boston
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity increased slightl y, about the same as in the pre vious repor t. Concer ns over the
impact of tariffs intensified but mainl y affected the outlook. Prices rose modestl y in recent w eeks
on average, despite larger increases in selected input prices. Emplo yment edged up, but man y
firms planned to p ause or limit hiring going forw ard because of polic y uncer tainty. IT ser vices fir ms
repor ted strong re venue growth. Re venues, led b y moderate growth in auto sales, increased
slightl y for retailer s but w ere flat for manufacturer s. In the tourism sector , overall re venues rose
slightl y, but tourism from Canada slow ed considerabl y. Commercial real estate acti vity pick ed up
slightl y in recent w eeks. Home sales softened a bit from one year ear lier, partly reflecting bad
weather . The outlook became considerabl y more uncer tain and more pessimistic, as contacts
emphasized risks of rising inflation and w eakening demand link ed to tariffs and other federal
policies.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment increased slightl y, and w ages rose at a modest p ace. Headcounts increased mod-
estly for IT ser vices fir ms, which mostl y sought to fill technical suppor t and soft ware de velopment
roles. Among manufacturer s, hiring acti vity was mixed, and emplo yment increased slightl y on
average. Retail and tourism emplo yment w as roughl y unchanged, although contacts repor ted
increased ease of hiring and slow er attrition. In contrast, immigrant labor suppl y, specificall y of
health care wor kers, declined noticeabl y on Cape Cod. W ages increased modestl y on a verage.
Concer ning the outlook, a fe w firms expected to engage in moderate hiring acti vity in the coming
months but most planned to limit or e ven p ause hiring because of ele vated uncer tainty and/ or
weak demand. No significant la yoffs w ere planned.
Prices
Prices rose modestl y on a verage, but contacts said that prices could star t to rise more rapidl y in
the coming months. IT ser vices prices rose at a slight p ace o ver the quar ter, and hotel room rates
in the Greater Boston area increased modestl y on a year-o ver-year basis. Retail prices w ere
roughl y flat in recent months, including those of autos. On a year-o ver-year basis, wholesale sea-
food prices declined moderatel y, while prices of cer tain metals impor ted from China increased
5
sharply. Prices for energ y and production tools increased moderatel y over the quar ter. Manufac-
turers posted onl y slight output price increases in the most recent quar ter. Looking ahead, retail
and manufacturing contacts alik e cautioned that cost increases link ed to tariffs, although still to
be deter mined, could result in significant p assthrough to their output prices. Ex pected p ass-
through rates w ere substantial, with half of manufacturer s projecting a complete p assthrough,
mostl y without lags. One manufacturer shor tened the duration of its price quotes to 30 da ys in
anticip ation of the need to adjust prices rapidl y.
Retail and T ourism
First District retail and tourism contacts repor ted mixed results in recent months, with re venues
increasing slightl y on balance. Excluding automobiles, retail sales w eakened moderatel y in the
first quar ter of 2025 comp ared with the four th quar ter of 2024, falling shor t of e xpectations. Auto
dealer s in Ne w Hampshire repor ted moderate sales increases throughout March and ear ly April,
and winter sales of snowmobiles and plows in the state w ere quite strong . Cape Cod restaurant
owners experienced a fir st-quar ter slowdow n, and hotel bookings on the Cape for summer w ere
running some what below recent year s. Air line p assenger traffic through Boston increased moder-
ately year-o ver-year . Hotel occup ancy in greater Boston increased modestl y, boosted b y two inter-
national spor ting e vents. How ever, travel from Canada declined noticeabl y, and contacts feared
that summer tra vel from Euro pe and China could suffer as w ell because of negati ve reactions to
U.S. tariff policies. More broadl y, tourism contacts e xpressed concer ns that declining consumer
confidence could hur t leisure spending . The retail outlook also tur ned decidedl y more pessimistic,
though the outlook for con vention acti vity remained solid.
Manufacturing and Related Ser vices
Relati ve to the pre vious quar ter, manufacturing sales w ere flat on a verage, although repor ts varied
across contacts and e ven within fir ms across business lines. A frozen food manufacturer e xperi-
enced health y growth in retail sales despite the growing w eakness in food ser vices demand. A
materials producer repor ted a pronounced dro p in sales o ver the quar ter to automoti ve industr y
clients but said that demand from other sources increased modestl y from a year ear lier. Capital
spending sta yed within fir ms’ forecasts, increasing modestl y from a year ear lier. Projects included
a new production facilit y and upgrades to automation and producti vity. Several contacts e xpressed
concer ns that tariffs might require them to raise output prices and/ or absorb cost increases. Con-
sequentl y, the outlook tur ned more pessimistic and uncer tain, with some fir ms mar king dow n their
revenue growth forecasts and other s percei ving greater dow nside risks for the econom y in general.6 The Beige Book
IT and Softw are Ser vices
IT contacts in the F irst District repor ted strong re venue growth, dri ven in p art by acquisition
activity, although one fir m said that real transactions volume w as about le vel with a year ear lier. IT
contacts e xpected no direct imp acts from tariffs and cautioned that it w as too ear ly to tell how tar-
iffs would affect their clients. Capital spending continued to drift dow nward. Contacts e xpected
demand for their ser vices to sta y strong or impro ve fur ther in the second quar ter, based on the
strength of recent bookings and confidence in their business models. One fir m forecasted growing
demand for its automation products. How ever, one contact e xpressed increased pessimism for the
econom y as a whole, and another pointed to dow nside risks to client demand associated with
cuts to federal research funding .
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate acti vity in the F irst District pick ed up slightl y on balance, but contacts
emphasized that uncer tainty had put a damper on decision-making . Vacanc y rates and rents w ere
largel y unchanged, and office leasing acti vity increased a bit. Life sciences buildings in greater
Boston, already facing high vacanc y rates, saw demand slow fur ther from e xpected cuts to
research funding and an ongoing pullback of pri vate equit y. Several office buildings in Boston and
Providence w ere repor tedly headed for auctions as their debt matured. At the same time, financing
flowed more freel y to cer tain (non-office) pro perties, owing to an increased interest from pri vate
debt funds. The outlook w as mar ked by uncer tainty, stemming mostl y from tariffs, and became
slightl y more pessimistic. Contacts w ere concer ned that tariffs could blunt constr uction acti vity,
raise energ y costs, and dampen demand for w arehouse sp ace, adding that just the uncer tainty
surrounding tariffs w as ha ving a chilling effect on economic acti vity. One contact noted, how ever,
that the onshoring of manufacturing could yield offsetting benefits. Most respondents e xpected
demand for multifamil y housing and grocer y-anchored retail to remain strong but held mixed o pin-
ions regarding the outlook for office and industrial pro perties.
Residential Real Estate
Across the F irst District, home sales declined slightl y in F ebruary and March comp ared with t welve
months ear lier. Those results contrasted with strong year-o ver-year sales increases recorded for
Januar y, as se veral contacts percei ved that inclement w eather held back acti vity relati ve to sea-
sonal nor ms. On the brighter side, pending sales rose b y moderate to large margins from one year
earlier in Massachusetts, Ne w Hampshire, and Maine, and in ventories increased considerabl y in
most repor ting states, e xcept for Massachusetts where in ventories declined moderatel y. Home
prices increased at a moderate p ace from one year ear lier, less rapidl y than in the pre vious repor t,
with Massachusetts ’ home prices declining slightl y in recent months. Contacts w ere ho peful thatFederal Reser ve Bank of Boston 7
spring would bring a robust seasonal upswing in sales but cautioned that in ventories remained a
limiting factor .
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .bostonfed.org/in-the-
region.aspx .8 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
New York
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Second District contracted modestl y as heightened uncer tainty weighed
on businesses and consumer s. Still, emplo yment in the region w as steady to up slightl y and
wages gre w moderatel y. Price increases pick ed up to the higher end of the moderate range. Manu-
facturing acti vity declined modestl y. Consumer spending w as up modestl y in March, though there
were signs of a pullback in ear ly April. Housing mar kets pick ed up slightl y. Man y businesses
expressed significant concer ns that tariffs would reduce suppl y availabilit y, push up input prices,
decrease demand, squeeze profit margins, and hold back in vestment. Outlooks dar kened, with
many businesses anticip ating declining acti vity and rising prices in the months ahead.
Labor Mar kets
On balance, emplo yment in the region w as steady to up slightl y. Businesses in per sonal ser vices,
information, transpor tation, and wholesale saw an increase in headcounts, while retailer s, leisure
and hospitalit y establishments, and business ser vices fir ms repor ted declines.
Demand for wor kers held steady , though some emplo yers repor ted pausing hiring amid heightened
uncer tainty. A Ne w York City area recr uiter noted that despite some hesitation, demand for
workers in the financial ser vices industr y was steady . Contacts at emplo yment agencies in the
region repor ted that labor demand and labor suppl y remained roughl y in balance, though it has
generall y become easier to find wor kers. Still, some businesses with more specialized needs con-
tinued to str uggle to find wor kers with the right skills. Though there w ere no mentions of major la y-
offs, there w ere scattered signs of headcount reductions at smaller comp anies.
Wage growth remained moderate. A Ne w Jersey salon repor ted that training costs w ere high
because wor kers did not ha ve the pro per vocational training , while a Ne w York contact indicated
minimum w age increases w ere hindering hiring of ne w wor kers.
Prices
Both selling price and input price increases pick ed up to the higher end of the moderate range.
Food and insurance costs rose noticeabl y, and price increases for some wholesale and constr uc-
9
tion materials—such as steel, aluminum, and impor ted door s—accelerated. Some manufacturer s
and distributor s have begun adding surcharges to account for tariffs on shipments already en
route. Still, a regional coffee roaster noted some easing in the price of commodit y coffee. F irms
dependent on impor ts expressed concer ns about compressed margins and their abilit y to p ass on
cost increases to consumer s. Contacts anticip ated strong increases in input prices in the coming
months and e xpected selling price increases to remain moderate.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending w as up modestl y in March, though there w ere signs of a pullback in ear ly
April. Dep artment store contacts repor ted a small pickup in March on the heels of w eak sales
amid poor w eather in the pre vious repor ting period, but saw signs of w eakening consumption in
April. A variet y of smaller retailer s in all cor ners of District—including food stores, restaurants,
and home fur nishings stores—repor ted recent declines in sales, and a diner in upstate Ne w York
noted customer s were spending less on higher-priced menu items. By contrast, auto dealer s in
upstate Ne w York repor ted strong sales in March as customer s look ed to purchase vehicles
before tariffs pushed prices up fur ther. Used car sales w ere steady , though dealer s anticip ated a
pickup in demand as tariffs raise the prices of ne w car s.
Manufacturing and Distribution
Manufacturing acti vity declined modestl y, with ne w order s and shipments edging low er. A regional
furniture manufacturer repor ted a significant reduction in order s, in p art due to federal go vernment
spending freezes, and a handful of manufacturer s repor ted shar p declines in sales to Canada. By
contrast, acti vity among wholesale and distribution-related fir ms increased slightl y. A shipping
industr y contact indicated that there w as strong demand since the last repor t, with a significant
pulling forw ard of impor ts in anticip ation of tariffs and other polic y changes. Deli very times w ere
unchanged, and suppl y availabilit y declined slightl y but it is e xpected to wor sen considerabl y in the
coming months. Some manufacturer s paused capital equipment purchases amid economic uncer-
tainty. Manufacturer s turned pessimistic about the outlook.
Services
Activity in the ser vice sector declined moderatel y. There w ere particular ly shar p declines repor ted
by firms in the leisure and hospitalit y, business ser vices, and infor mation sector s, while contacts
from the education and health and per sonal ser vices sector s repor ted more modest declines. A
mid-sized IT ser vice fir m noted the loss of se veral contracts with Canadian comp anies. The out-
look for ser vice sector fir ms wor sened noticeabl y, with contacts anticip ating a shar p decline in
activity in the coming months. Ser vice sector fir ms repor ted a major pullback in planned
investment.10 The Beige Book
Tourism acti vity in Ne w York City was steady , with solid tick et sales at Broad way theatres. Hotel
rates and occup ancy rose slightl y comp ared to the same time last year . How ever, a Ne w York City
hotel ow ner repor ted a falloff in inter national reser vations, and contacts in upstate Ne w York near
the border saw declining visits from Canadians. Looking ahead, a tourism industr y expert antici-
pated fur ther declines in inter national visitor s.
Real Estate and Constr uction
The housing mar ket pick ed up slightl y as the spring selling season got underw ay. Suppl y remained
the limiting factor , with ongoing e xceptionall y low in ventor y in upstate Ne w York and the Ne w York
City suburbs, p articular ly Long Island. There w as a small increase in ne w listings in recent
months, and some ne w constr uction added to in ventor y in upstate Ne w York. Demand remained
solid and pick ed up for the spring selling season, pushing prices higher , and bidding w ars con-
tinued. Ne w York City’s housing mar ket remained solid, despite some pullback from high-income
buyer s rattled b y financial mar ket volatilit y. Yet, a Ne w York City real estate contact e xpressed con-
cern that with mor tgage rates rising in recent w eeks, buyer s and seller s may retreat to the
sidelines.
Rents ha ve stabilized at a high le vel in upstate Ne w York, while rents in Ne w York City continued to
rise. With mor tgage rates edging higher and heightened uncer tainty, potential buyer s have pushed
up demand for rentals.
Commercial real estate mar kets held steady . Vacanc y rates in Manhattan ’s office mar ket have
declined, and leasing acti vity was stronger in March. Still, asking rents continued to decline, as
the ongoing preference for ne wer, higher-qualit y property has shifted the balance of sp ace on the
market. Midtow n Manhattan has fared better than other business districts, as proximit y to transit
remained attracti ve. Nor thern New Jersey’s industrial mar ket softened, as some acti vity stalled
due to the uncer tainty about tariffs and consumer demand. Constr uction acti vity declined, amid
rising material prices and heightened uncer tainty.
Banking and F inance
Activity in the broad finance sector continued to w eaken modestl y this repor ting period. Small-to -
medium-sized banks repor ted that demand edged dow n for business loans and commercial mor t-
gages, but declined more shar ply for consumer loans and residential mor tgages, as w ell as refi-
nances. A senior loan officer at a regional bank in Ne w York noted that uncer tainty was tempering
loan demand. Most contacts repor ted that credit standards had eased, while delinquenc y rates
impro ved. Deposit rates continued to decline.Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York11
Community P erspectives
Reductions in federal grants and subsidies ha ve led to gaps in ser vices and financial assistance
to communit y member s, with organizations ha ving difficult y obtaining financing to help fill these
gaps. Local food banks that rel y on federal funding ha ve repor ted reductions in per sonnel and pro -
grams. Contacts at non-profits and other communit y-based organizations e xpressed significant
concer n about the future of federal funding and ser vices suppor t, creating challenges in staffing ,
strateg y, and planning .
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .newyorkfed.org/
regional-econom y.12 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Philadelphia
Summar y of Economic Activity
Business acti vity in the Third District declined modestl y after falling slightl y in the prior period.
Nonmanufacturing acti vity decreased moderatel y after a slight decline last period. Nonauto
retailer s repor ted little change to a slight decline, with discounts helping to k eep customer traffic
steady . Auto dealer s repor ted a strong increase in sales thanks to a pulling forw ard of demand to
beat tariff-related price increases. Emplo yment declined slightl y, with demand for wor kers below
year-ago le vels. Manufacturing acti vity continued to grow modestl y. Wages and prices also con-
tinued to rise modestl y, albeit at slightl y lower rates. F irms continued to note that changes in trade
policies pose upside risks to general inflation. F irms expect a modest decline in business acti vity
over the ne xt six months, with rising economic uncer tainty weighing on prospects. Nonmanufac-
turers expected a moderate decline in acti vity over the ne xt six months, and manufacturer s
expected slight growth—both low er than last period’ s expectations.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment appeared to decline slightl y, following a slight increase in the prior period. Based on
our March sur vey, full-time emplo yment fell modestl y for nonmanufacturing fir ms, the fir st decline
since August. The inde x for p art-time emplo yment also fell. How ever, the inde x for total manufac-
turing emplo yment mo ved higher in March. The a verage wor kweek inde x rose for all fir ms. More
than t wo-thirds of all fir ms repor ted no changes in full-time emplo yment in March, roughl y in line
with the prior period.
Overall, our staffing contacts repor ted demand for wor kers was mostl y flat from the prior period
but w as below year-ago le vels. One staffing contact highlighted a recent decline in o vertime being
offered as w ell as instances of emplo yers telling temporar y wor kers not to come in for a fe w days
because of a lack of wor k, something the contact had not heard since before the p andemic. Con-
tacts repor ted a slight increase in labor suppl y but noted a decline in already emplo yed per sons
looking for a ne w job.
Business contacts continued to repor t low emplo yee tur nover and little issue hiring wor kers. One
contact remar ked the fir m had recentl y recei ved applications from se veral o verqualified candi-
dates. Another contact repor ted that clients w ere vie wing federal go vernment la yoffs as an o ppor-
13
tunity to hire highl y qualified wor kers who would not otherwise be a vailable. How ever, repor ts of
fewer hour s, hiring freezes, and la yoffs w ere more common than in recent periods.
Wage inflation continued to ease fur ther on balance, but fir ms still repor ted modest increases.
Across industries, contacts repor ted little upw ard w age pressure, with w age increases t ypical of
their long-r un average.
Prices
On balance, fir ms’ prices again rose modestl y during the period. In our monthl y surveys, the diffu-
sion inde x for prices p aid rose and w as abo ve its nonrecession a verage for both nonmanufacturer s
and manufacturer s. The diffusion inde x for prices recei ved rose for nonmanufacturing fir ms, while
the inde x tick ed dow n for manufacturing fir ms but remained ele vated.
One contact repor ted canceling upcoming price increases, fearing a dro p in customer demand.
Meanwhile, another contact repor ted that a significant number of restaurants chose not to p artici-
pate in an annual local restaurant w eek promotion because the y couldn ’t afford to discount their
menu items.
Most contacts e xpected tariffs to increase costs and prices mo ving forw ard, and onl y a fe w
repor ted an imp act this period. The inde xes for future prices p aid and future prices recei ved con-
tinued to sug gest that manufacturing fir ms expect price increases o ver the ne xt six months. Both
indexes mo ved low er but remained abo ve their historical nonrecession a verages.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity continued to grow modestl y during the period. How ever, the inde xes for ne w
order s and shipments sug gested less widespread growth comp ared with the prior period.
Manufacturer s expected slight growth in acti vity over the ne xt six months, a slowdow n from the
prior period. The inde xes for future general acti vity, new order s, shipments, and emplo yment all
suggested less o ptimism than in the prior period. In March, the share of fir ms expecting higher
capital e xpenditures in 2025 comp ared with 2024 slightl y exceeded the share of fir ms expecting
lower capital e xpenditures. How ever, the share of fir ms expecting higher capital e xpenditures in
2025 w as dow n significantl y from when the identical question w as ask ed in October .
Trade and Ser vices
On balance, fir ms across a broad spectr um of nonmanufacturing industries repor ted a moderate
decrease in acti vity following a slight decline last period. The inde x for general acti vity, which14 The Beige Book
turned negati ve in F ebruary, weakened fur ther in March. The inde xes for ne w order s and sales/
revenues also remained negati ve, with the ne w order s inde x falling shar ply in March.
Retailer s (nonauto) repor ted little change to a slight decline in sales during the period, following
little to no change last period. One contact indicated more ag gressi ve price promotions contrib-
uted to an uptick in store visits, but customer s mostl y limited their purchases to discounted
items. Contacts described consumer s as pinched and noted less frequent visits to businesses
such as coffee sho ps, bre weries, and restaurants.
Auto dealer s repor ted a strong increase in sales after a slight increase last period. Multiple con-
tacts highlighted that sales hit record highs in March. How ever, all our auto industr y contacts
attributed this boost to a pulling forw ard of vehicle purchases to get ahead of potential tariffs and
do not e xpect the strength in demand to continue.
Tourism acti vity rose slightl y after increasing moderatel y last period. Contacts repor ted a signifi-
cant dro p in visits and future bookings from inter national tourists but noted that domestic tra vel
remained strong during the period. Contacts also highlighted a drag in acti vity stemming from can-
cellations for go vernment-related tra vel and conferences.
The share of nonmanufacturer s expecting growth o ver the ne xt six months fell shar ply and tur ned
negati ve, with the inde x falling to its low est le vel since April 2020.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Brokers again repor ted a slight decline in e xisting home sales. Contacts continued to stress that
the lack of housing in ventor y was the big gest constraint on sales growth and that a lack of afford-
ability dampened acti vity further.
Homebuilder s repor ted a moderate decline in acti vity during the period, slowing from a slight
decline last period. In addition to an o verall slowing in sales and prospecti ve buyer traffic, con-
tacts repor ted a dro p in a verage sales prices, with customer s opting for smaller homes or less
expensi ve tow nhomes. One contact noted a backlog of sales will put a floor on acti vity this year ,
but multiple contacts cited the stock mar ket volatilit y in ear ly April and recent dro ps in consumer
confidence as head winds for future sales. 
In nonresidential mar kets, leasing acti vity and transaction volumes appeared to hold steady in the
retail, commercial, and industrial segments. How ever, demand for logistics-related industrial sp ace
is showing signs of slowing slightl y, according to contacts.Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia 15
Commercial real estate contacts continued to repor t a slight decrease in constr uction acti vity this
period. A fe w contacts noted projects in ear ly development phases ha ve been p aused to wor k out
possible tariff-related cost changes. Another contact repor ted a dela y in federal funding impeded
previousl y planned municip al projects.
Credit Conditions
The volume of bank lending (e xcluding credit cards) held steady during the cur rent period (not sea-
sonall y adjusted)—an impro vement o ver last period’ s slight decline but w eaker than the slight
growth in the same period a year ago.
District banks repor ted a moderate decline in commercial and industrial loans and modest dro ps
in auto loans and other consumer loans. Meanwhile, mor tgage lending gre w moderatel y, home
equity lines gre w modestl y, and commercial real estate loans tick ed up. Credit card volumes
declined moderatel y, in line with the decline in the same period a year ago.
Banking contacts repor ted little change in o verall asset qualit y despite a slight increase in p ast
due p ayments and delinquenc y rates. Multiple contacts also noted a slow er loan pipeline due to
potential polic y and price variabilit y that has caused businesses to dela y investment decisions.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .philadelphiafed.org/
regional-econom y.16 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Cleveland
Summar y of Economic Activity
On balance, contact repor ts were consistent with flat business acti vity in the F ourth District in
recent w eeks, sug gesting a w eaker-than-usual spring . Contacts generall y expected acti vity to
remain flat in the months ahead. Consumer spending w as dow n; how ever, some auto dealer s
repor ted an increase in sales as customer s sought to purchase car s ahead of potential tariffs.
Demand for manufactured goods continued to soften, a situation which contacts attributed to
uncer tainty regarding tariffs. Constr uction contacts noted an uptick in demand but e xpected
demand to diminish in the coming months gi ven potential materials cost increases due to tariffs.
On balance, emplo yment le vels increased slightl y, and w age pressures remained moderate.
Although contact repor ts sug gested moderate growth in nonlabor input costs, repor ted price
increases continued to be modest.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels generall y increased slightl y in recent w eeks, according to contact repor ts. Con-
tacts in the manufacturing , constr uction, and retail sector s repor ted hiring additional staff to
accommodate business e xpansion and increased demand. A fe w contacts noted that their fir ms
took advantage of the cooler labor mar ket to hire for roles in which candidates w ere pre viousl y
scarce. By contrast, se veral contacts repor ted that softer demand caused them to reduce head-
counts, while other s put hiring effor ts on p ause because of an uncer tain mar ket outlook. On bal-
ance, fir ms expected emplo yment to continue to see slight growth.
Contacts repor ted that w age pressures w ere moderate o ver the last t wo months. Across indus-
tries, fir ms continued to implement cost-of-li ving and merit-based w age increases for e xisting
emplo yees. Ne w emplo yees in some k ey positions ear ned higher star ting salaries, though contact
accounts sug gested that labor mar ket pressures w ere broadl y softening , allowing fir ms to main-
tain flat star ting w ages for man y roles.
Prices
On balance, contacts indicated that nonlabor input costs rose at a moderate p ace in recent
weeks. Contacts from multiple sector s noted that some of their supplier s increased prices in
17
anticip ation of impor t tariffs, and man y firms whose supplier s had yet to raise prices said that
they expected increases in the near ter m. Manufacturer s and constr uction contacts repor ted
higher costs for steel and other materials, while multiple retailer s repor ted higher costs to impor t
both inter mediate and finished goods. Contacts generall y expected costs to grow at a strong p ace
in the coming months.
Contacts sug gested that selling prices again gre w at a modest p ace on balance, though most con-
tinued to repor t holding prices steady in recent w eeks. Man y firms that raised prices repor ted
doing so to k eep p ace with rising emplo yee compensation or materials costs, while a smaller
share mentioned nor mal annual increases. O verall, retail contacts indicated that the y were
increasing prices moderatel y, and one retailer added that its fir m was testing the effects of price
increases to offset anticip ated impor t tariffs.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending declined moderatel y, and contacts e xpected this decline to continue—albeit
at a slow p ace—o ver the coming months. Se veral food and hospitalit y contacts tied decreased
foot traffic to economic and political uncer tainty, and the y expected consumer s to pull back on
spending or trade dow n to more affordable o ptions. Con versely, some auto dealer s repor ted that
the threat of tariffs dro ve customer s to purchase automobiles prior to potential price increases.
Several retailer s had difficult y forecasting the imp acts of polic y and economic uncer tainty on con-
sumer demand, and the y wor ried that consumer spending would pull back fur ther.
Manufacturing
Contact repor ts sug gested a moderate decline in demand for manufactured goods, and the largest
share of fir ms expected demand to be stable at the cur rent low le vel in the coming months. Con-
tacts across industr y segments cited uncer tainty about impor t tariffs and other go vernment poli-
cies as the primar y reasons for softer order s, and some producer s were concer ned that their
firms’ exports could be subject to reciprocal tariffs; one contact added that some foreign cus-
tomer s had already begun to cancel e xisting order s. Still, a small number of manufacturer s
expected demand for their products to increase if fir ms seek domestic sources of inputs pre vi-
ously sourced from abroad or as trade polic y comes into better focus.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Demand for homes increased moderatel y in recent w eeks as the spring selling season began to
heat up. One homebuilder saw some what low er mor tgage rates attracting buyer s to the mar ket,
and another attributed higher contract volume to ne w-home buyer s getting ahead of potential
materials cost increases related to tariffs. One industr y contact saw falling demand for ne w builds18 The Beige Book
but rising demand for remodels and additions. Contacts e xpected a slowdow n in demand o ver the
coming months due to increasing constr uction costs associated with tariffs and uncer tainty in the
broader econom y.
On the nonresidential side, contacts repor ted that demand for ne w projects declined slightl y. Sev-
eral commercial builder s said that tariff policies and an uncer tain economic en vironment w ere
keeping fir ms from mo ving forw ard with projects. On balance, contacts e xpected acti vity to slow
further in the coming months. Man y anticip ated that polic y uncer tainty would continue to dampen
demand for commercial buildings.
Financial Ser vices
Overall, bank ers repor ted that loan demand increased slightl y over the last se veral w eeks. A
couple of bank ers attributed this increase to impro ved o ptimism among some of their clients
related to a more “pro -business” administration. Another bank er said that loan demand w as
stronger for commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans than in pre vious year s.
However, several other bank ers noted that clients held off on large purchases due to increased
economic uncer tainty. Looking ahead, some bank ers anticip ated a decline in loan demand due to
uncer tainty surrounding interest rates, go vernment spending , and trade polic y. Bank ers predomi-
nantly repor ted that core deposits increased at their institutions, a situation which one attributed
to clients withdrawing mone y from the stock mar ket.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Demand for professional and business ser vices w as robust on balance in recent w eeks, according
to contact repor ts. One law fir m saw increased demand from go vernment and nonprofit clients
driven b y questions on polic y changes. Meanwhile, another law fir m specializing in merger s and
acquisitions repor ted stable demand as its clients aw aited polic y clarit y, but it e xpected demand
to rise as tariff policies become clearer . Contacts generall y expected professional and business
services demand to grow slightl y in the coming months. By contrast, freight contacts repor ted a
slight decline in demand, a circumstance which se veral contacts attributed to economic polic y
uncer tainty. Freight contacts e xpected modest growth in the coming months.
Community Conditions
In a semiannual sur vey of nonprofit organizations, respondents who assist jobseek ers repor ted a
decline in job a vailabilit y over the p ast six months. Some respondents indicated that emplo yers
were less willing to train indi viduals and w ere conducting more inter views before hiring . A majorit y
of respondents said that price increases continued to imp act the financial w ell-being of low- and
moderate-income households, leading more households to rel y on credit cards to purchase basicFederal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland 19
necessities. Se veral contacts e xpressed concer n about their organizations ’ funding due to a
decline in indi vidual donations and uncer tainty regarding federal funding .
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .clevelandfed.org/en/
region/regional-anal ysis.20 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Richmond
Summar y of Economic Activity
On balance, the F ifth District econom y grew mildl y in recent w eeks. Repor ts on consumer
spending w ere mixed with some businesses seeing sales pick up as w eather impro ved but other s
seeing sales decline due to declining consumer confidence and job securit y fear s from federal
workers. Residential and commercial real estate acti vity increased slightl y this c ycle. Manufac-
turers and financial ser vices pro viders repor ted steady demand. Nonfinancial ser vices, on the
other hand, repor ted a modest decline in demand due to heightened uncer tainty imp acting their
clients ’ abilit y to mak e decisions. Emplo yment le vels w ere little changed, o verall. Price growth
picked up slightl y as some fir ms increased prices due to tariffs, but year-o ver-year price growth
remained within a moderate range.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment in the F ifth District, on net, w as unchanged in the most recent period. How ever, man y
federal go vernment wor kers were laid off or put on administrati ve lea ve in recent w eeks. These
cuts to the federal wor kforce ha ve imp acted businesses throughout the entire district. In addition,
federal contractor s have laid off wor kers in response to spending cuts. F or example, a research
organization headquar tered outside the DC-region laid off wor kers due to contracts being can-
celled. Similar ly, a Nor thern Virginia consultanc y reduced headcount b y 25 percent due to losing
half their contracts. Non-go vernment emplo yers generall y repor ted a slight impro vement in labor
availabilit y and moderating w age pressure, though fir ms in manufacturing and skilled trades con-
tinue to repor t that the a vailabilit y of wor kers with the right skills constrains growth, p articular ly in
smaller tow ns.
Prices
Price growth edged slightl y higher in recent w eeks but on a year-o ver-year basis growth remained
moderate. Se veral fir ms said that the y recentl y raised their prices because their costs had
increased as a result of tariffs. Man y firms said that the y were recei ving letter s from supplier s and
sending letter s to their customer s warning that prices could increase in the near future due to tar-
iffs. Se veral businesses said that until the y had a better idea of how tariffs might imp act them,
they were minimizing ne w investments and planning for various cost scenarios.
21
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity in the F ifth District w as unchanged in the recent repor ting period. Se veral
contacts had a positi ve first quar ter but e xpected acti vity to be negati vely imp acted in coming
months due to increased uncer tainty and tariffs. A sheet metal fabricator w asn’t sure about future
order s due to steel tariffs leading to price increases. Se veral contacts put in vestments on hold
due to increased uncer tainty. A militar y equipment manufacturer repor ted conditions being “too
chaotic” to mak e any decisions on future in vestments. A w all panel manufacturer has no long-ter m
investment plans due to increased mar ket uncer tainty. A coffee roaster , whose beans can onl y be
sourced inter nationall y, repor ted historic cost increases which resulted in historic price increases
for their customer s.
Ports and T ranspor tation
Overall cargo volumes in the F ifth District decreased modestl y since the last repor ting period, with
some variance bet ween por ts. Cargo volumes briefl y retur ned to nor mal in F ebruary as labor
agreements w ere resolved but ha ve been more volatile in recent w eeks due to tariff announce-
ments and enactments. F or example, steep declines w ere repor ted for far m and constr uction
equipment after steel and aluminum tariffs set in. In contrast, impor ts for autos and some retail
goods increased as order s were placed to get ahead of potential tariffs. Loaded e xports were
down significantl y with one por t noting an “une xpected and disappointing” 25 percent decline
month o ver month. P ort contacts w ere particular ly concer ned about the pro posed por t call tax on
Chinese vessels which, b y their estimates, could quadr uple cargo handling costs. Some por ts
received multi-million-dollar tariff bills on Chinese cranes that w ere already ordered and enroute as
tariffs w ere enacted and are now subject to the tariff. Rail saw record volumes this period with
high storage le vels; contacts attributed the e xtra cargo to tariff front-loading and e xtended gate
hours to accommodate the e xtra freight. T rucking volumes w ere relati vely flat but respondents
expected o verall freight volumes from China specificall y to dip in the coming months.
Retail, Travel, and T ourism
Consumer spending w as flat, on balance, but indi vidual repor ts were mixed. Some retail busi-
nesses said that sales w ere up comp ared to Januar y and F ebruary, but both of those months w ere
soft due to adver se weather conditions. Other retailer s and restaurants in V irginia and Mar yland
said that sales w ere dow n and attributed some of the decline to consumer sentiment and the fact
that their client base included federal wor kers and contractor s who w ere pulling back on discre-
tionar y spending in case the y lose their job. T ravel and tourism contacts also ga ve mixed repor ts
with some seeing a bounce back in March as w eather w as more fa vorable and other s repor ting
declines in both leisure and business tra vel.22 The Beige Book
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity had a slight uptick from last c ycle. Home in ventor y levels ha ve
begun to increase, and buyer traffic declined. Homebuilder s across the district are wor ried about
the imp acts that tariffs will ha ve on raw material pricing . A Virginia builder noted concer ns that an
increase in building suppl y costs will create greater housing affordabilit y problems. This w as
echoed b y a brok er who stated, “It seems lik e there is no longer a fir st-time homebuyer mar ket
while million-dollar homes continue to sell. ” Simultaneousl y, buyer s were still obtaining mor tgages
and recei ving incenti ves in ne w constr uction close-outs.
Commercial real estate had a slight increase despite some uncer tainty and hesitation. A
North Carolina brok er stated, “w e are in a time of price disco very.” Multifamil y constr uction con-
tinued where projects had already star ted but fe w new projects w ere being green lit. Demand for
retail and restaurant sp ace remained strong despite some major retailer s closing locations. Office
space saw a slight decrease in vacancies as comp anies brought more wor kers back into the
office. Another brok er in V irginia noted that as federal la yoffs continue in D .C., go vernment con-
tractor s are mo ving from sp ace in nor thern Virginia to occup y the o pen sp ace in federall y owned
buildings. Constr uction continued to slow , in conjunction with fear s that public sector projects will
not ha ve federal funds as e xpected.
Banking and F inance
Financial institutions repor ted loan demand to be steady , but commercial real estate loan demand
continued to dro p slightl y. One lender attributed this slowing of demand to long-ter m higher
interest rates, a tightening of credit standards, and economic uncer tainty. A fe w institutions
obser ved that consumer auto and mor tgage loan bor rowing continued to soften. Se veral institu-
tions also noted that the y were seeing a modest increase in delinquencies in both their commer-
cial and consumer loan por tfolios. Deposit le vels continued to remain stable, but one institution
noted the y were seeing both businesses and consumer s withdrawing more funds to manage their
rising costs.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Nonfinancial ser vice pro viders repor ted modest decreases in demand for their ser vices and
expected this trend to continue throughout the year . An architectural fir m noted that the year w as
off to a strong star t, but the threat of tariffs and uncer tain economic conditions ha ve imp acted
their clients ’ abilit y to mak e business decisions. A variet y of fir ms, all with ties to some for m of
federal go vernment funding , indicated that the uncer tainty of these p ayments caused them toFederal Reser ve Bank of Richmond 23
change their outlook for the year . The reactions to this change included the possibilit y of reducing
their wor kforces and/ or looking for other re venue streams.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .richmondfed.org/
research/data_anal ysis.24 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Atlanta
Summar y of Economic Activity
The Sixth District econom y grew slightl y, on balance, o ver the repor ting period. Labor mar kets w ere
little changed, but some fir ms noted plans for slight reductions in headcount amid softening
demand or rising cost pressures. W ages, nonlabor costs, and fir ms’ prices rose modestl y. Con-
sumer spending fell slightl y, and tra vel and tourism acti vity declined at a modest p ace. Home
sales rose modestl y, home in ventories increased, and affordabilit y declined fur ther. Commercial
real estate conditions w eakened. T ranspor tation acti vity rose slowl y, and manufacturing deceler-
ated. Loan growth w as flat. Energ y acti vity grew at a slow p ace, and agricultural demand declined
some what.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as little changed from the pre vious repor t. Man y firms repor ted fair ly stable demand
for wor kers and roughl y flat headcounts. How ever, a small but increasing share of contacts noted
plans for slight reductions in force as a result of softening demand or mounting cost pressures.
Some contacts mentioned concer ns about uncer tain inter national trade polic y further moderating
demand, which could trig ger additional dow nsizing . While not a majorit y, several fir ms ha ve seen a
drop in labor suppl y amid tightening immigration polic y. Concer ns about future labor constraints
have grow n in se veral sector s but w ere especiall y pronounced in constr uction and agriculture.
Wages gre w modestl y since the F ebruary repor t. Most contacts e xpected 2025 w age increases to
be similar to those seen in 2024. Some pointed to the rising cost of li ving as putting upw ard pres-
sure on w ages, but the bargaining pow er continued to shift from emplo yees to emplo yers.
Prices
Prices and nonlabor costs increased modestl y. Price increases, both realized and e xpected, w ere
largel y attributed to the direct and indirect imp acts of trade polic y. Man y firms raised prices amid
higher costs resulting from tariffed inputs, and e ven some fir ms not directl y imp acted cited tariffs
and less foreign competition as a trig ger for price increases. Most contacts e xpect to p ass
through the cost of tariffs, e ven if it means a dro p in sales; how ever, some consumer-facing fir ms
noted increased price sensiti vity among customer s has led them to be strategic with targeted
25
pricing . Inflationar y trends pre vailed across sector s, signaling that the effects of trade polic y are
spreading and are no longer limited to the goods sp ace.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending declined modestl y. Some retailer s noted a decrease in foot traffic, and con-
sumer s increasingl y opted to eat at home instead of at restaurants. App arel retailer s repor ted
softer demand and e xpressed concer ns about sales falling fur ther amid the added cost of tariffs,
since most app arel is impor ted. Demand for fur niture, which w as already w eak, continued to fall.
There w ere also ongoing repor ts of consumer s trading dow n to value products or bulk purchases.
Travel and tourism acti vity declined modestl y. Hotelier s noted slight decreases in occup ancies,
and guests shor tened sta ys and reduced discretionar y spending on pro perty. Business tra vel fell.
Live enter tainment venues saw declining tick et sales. Large attractions that nor mally draw inter na-
tional visitor s saw a dro p in tra velers from abroad, p articular ly Canada, and air ports and air lines
repor ted a notable decline in foreign p assenger s to the U.S.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Home sales impro ved modestl y since the pre vious repor t, in line with seasonal trends. Existing
home in ventories gre w moderatel y, with some mar kets, lik e southw est Florida, rising more shar ply.
However, most mar kets continued to see in ventor y shor tages, causing steady upw ard pressure on
housing prices. This, combined with ele vated mor tgage rates, has dri ven home ow nership afford-
ability to historic lows. Demand for ne w homes tick ed up though w as below e xpectations, and
homebuilder s continued to offer incenti ves to promote sales. Homebuilder s’ optimism w aned amid
rising costs, labor and lot shor tages, and a shrinking pool of buyer s.
Commercial real estate acti vity weakened. Challenges remained in the multifamil y segment,
though demand accelerated some what through e xpanded concessions amid ele vated vacanc y
rates. Office acti vity was bifurcated, as ne wer buildings e xperienced stronger leasing and sales
rates than older pro perties requiring upgrades or offering fe wer amenities. Demand for industrial
space w as slug gish, and w arehousing cap acity rose as ne w pro perties came online. Widespread
uncer tainty along with tightened lending standards slow ed investment decisions.
Transpor tation
Transpor tation acti vity rose modestl y, on balance, o ver the repor ting period. Some por ts experi-
enced significant year-o ver-year increases in container volumes and a rebound in roll-on roll-off
shipments following a decline in F ebruary. Inter modal rail shipments increased, and total traffic
impro ved from year-ear lier le vels. Demand w as mixed for inland barge car riers, with one repor ting26 The Beige Book
steep declines in coal e xports and other commodities, and another noting stable freight volumes
but an e xpectation for w eakening acti vity amid growing concer ns by exporters over reciprocal tar-
iffs. F reight brok ers saw a shar p drop in a verage loads per da y after months of strong demand as
impor ters pulled in ventories forw ard ahead of ne w tariffs. Lack of clarit y around inter national trade
policies w as noted as the big gest risk to the outlook.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity declined slightl y since the pre vious repor t. A be verage producer noted softer
sales. Contacts in lumber and wood products manufacturing e xperienced slowing demand amid
ambiguit y surrounding tariffs—one fir m noted ha ving “zero faith in e ven a 6-month forecast, ” and
that the big gest hurdle to e xpansion and merger s and acquisitions w as not knowing how trade
policy will settle out. Con versely, a steel fabricator repor ted record backlogs with the most
strength coming from federall y funded projects. Se veral manufacturer s repor ted slowing or
pausing capital e xpenditures because of economic uncer tainty.
Banking and F inance
Loan growth at Sixth District financial institutions w as flat, on net, o ver the repor ting period. While
there w as robust growth in the multifamil y lending categor y, consumer loans, e xcluding autos and
credit cards, contracted shar ply. Cash-to -assets ratios saw a moderate decline as cash balances
fell and assets held steady . Deposit balances and bor rowings declined pro portionatel y, leaving
loan-to -deposit ratios unchanged. Banks repor ted no significant increases in delinquencies.
Energ y
Energ y acti vity grew slowl y. Liquefied natural gas production remained an area of strength in the oil
and gas sector , both domesticall y to fuel data center e xpansions and for e xports abroad. Utilit y
comp any contacts repor ted growth in the commercial and residential segments but noted that
industrial acti vity had slow ed. Energ y contacts e xpressed concer n over tariffs on impor ted cr ude
oil and refined petroleum products, as w ell as equipment and p arts used for chemical plant con-
struction. Some fir ms described uncer tainty about economic conditions in the shor t term, but
most remained upbeat about the long ter m, given strength in energ y and pow er demand.
Agriculture
Agricultural acti vity declined slightl y. Dair y farmers saw demand soften, p artially attributed to
decreased e xports of cheese to Me xico. Cattle rancher s continued to note strong beef sales and
higher prices amid limited suppl y. Demand for chick en was strong . Egg supplies continued to be
limited b y cases of A vian Flu. Demand for timber remained low . Contacts repor ted moderatingFederal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta 27
demand for fr uits and vegetables. Cotton, grain, and other row cro p grow ers continued to str uggle.
Farmers were concer ned about increasing costs of fer tilizer impor ts given trade polic y changes.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .atlantafed.org/
econom y-matter s/regional-economics .28 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Chicago
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Se venth District w as little changed on balance o ver the repor ting period
and contacts e xpected a slight decrease o ver the ne xt year . Man y contacts noted heightened
uncer tainty in their outlooks due to uncer tainty over the direction of federal trade polic y. Consumer
spending increased modestl y; emplo yment and constr uction and real estate acti vity were up
slightl y; manufacturing w as flat; business spending declined slightl y; and nonbusiness contacts
saw a slight decline in acti vity. Prices increased modestl y, wages rose slightl y, and financial condi-
tions tightened. Prospects for 2025 far m income w ere unchanged.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment increased slightl y over the repor ting period and contacts e xpected a similar p ace of
growth o ver the ne xt 12 months. Contacts largel y repor ted either stable or easing hiring condi-
tions, though a fe w, primaril y in manufacturing , continued to ha ve difficult y hiring . Several contacts
across a variet y of industries said the y were full y staffed or hiring onl y for replacement, with onl y a
few expecting to increase staffing o ver the ne xt year . Wages and benefits costs w ere up slightl y
overall. Se veral contacts noted that following a fe w year s of ver y large gains, annual w age
increases for the coming year w ere close to historical a verages.
Prices
Prices rose modestl y since the last repor t, though contacts e xpected the p ace of growth to pick up
over the ne xt 12 months. Producer prices increased slightl y. Nonlabor input costs rose, with
repor ts of higher prices for raw materials and equipment. Numerous manufacturing contacts said
they were facing heightened uncer tainty about both input costs and selling prices, and man y attrib-
uted the uncer tainty to changing tariff policies. One machiner y manufacturer repor ted that vendor s
were changing prices on a dail y basis. Consumer prices rose modestl y overall. One retail industr y
analyst expected the price imp acts of higher tariffs to largel y be felt in the second half of the year
and said retailer s were expecting to p ass about one-third of higher tariff costs on to consumer s.
29
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending increased modestl y over the repor ting period. Nonauto retail sales w ere up,
led by spending on big-tick et items such as appliances, computer s, and other electronics. Con-
tacts attributed the growth to consumer s pulling ahead spending in anticip ation of higher tariffs
later in the year . Leisure and hospitalit y spending softened o verall, with restaurants posting higher
sales but spending on hotels, air tra vel, and tourist attractions w eakening . Some contacts noted
that visits from Canadians w ere dow n moderatel y year-to -date. Light vehicle sales increased mod-
eratel y, with sales accelerating near the end of March as consumer s pulled ahead purchases to
avoid higher tariffs. Dealer s expected strong demand to continue until e xisting in ventories r un
down and tariffs star t to affect pricing .
Business Spending
Business spending declined slightl y since last repor t. Capital e xpenditures fell slightl y and e xpec-
tations for spending o ver the coming year also declined. Multiple contacts repor ted hesitanc y to
make capital purchases due to uncer tainty over the economic outlook. Demand for tr uck transpor-
tation w as flat, though freight rates decreased slightl y. Retail in ventories tick ed up from a high
level. In ventories of ne w vehicles w ere ele vated as dealer s repor ted adding to their stocks ahead
of potential tariff increases. Manufacturing in ventories w ere comfor table o verall, and repor ts of
materials shor tages remained low .
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction and real estate acti vity increased slightl y over the repor ting period. Residential con-
struction w as flat. Residential real estate acti vity moved up slightl y, led b y greater demand for
townhomes and star ter homes. Prices increased slightl y as w ell, but rents w ere unchanged. Non-
residential constr uction w as up a little, though contacts e xpressed concer n that tariff-induced
price increases on items such as large appliances, glass, and windows would slow acti vity. Com-
mercial real estate demand w as unchanged.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity was flat on balance in the District. Steel order s increased slightl y, with one
contact repor ting an increase in demand from the energ y sector . Fabricated metals sales rose
modestl y, in part due to more order s from the defense industr y. A couple of contacts in fabricated
metals e xpressed concer n that prices for nick el would spik e because a large share is impor ted
from Canada. Machiner y sales declined moderatel y, with higher demand from the aerosp ace
industr y more than offset b y lower demand from the automoti ve industr y. Auto and hea vy truck
production declined slightl y.30 The Beige Book
Banking and F inance
Financial conditions tightened modestl y over the repor ting period. Mar ket volatilit y was ele vated
and bond and equit y values fell significantl y. Business loan demand increased modestl y overall.
However, one banking contact noted that man y clients had put major decisions on p ause due to
uncer tainty about the state of the econom y and another noted that capital e xpenditures had
slowed. One contact in M&A said acti vity was at a “standstill. ” Business loan qualit y and rates
decreased slightl y, and ter ms remained flat. In the consumer sector , loan demand increased
slightl y, and qualit y edged dow n. Consumer loan rates and ter ms w ere flat.
Agriculture
Farm income e xpectations for 2025 w ere largel y unchanged, though there w as greater uncer tainty
due to trade polic y announcements. Contacts e xpressed concer ns about potentiall y losing e xport
markets but also mentioned that greater purchases of agricultural products could be a w ay for
some countries to low er trade deficits with the US. Cor n, soybean, and wheat prices decreased.
Fieldwork was underw ay to prep are for planting , though abundant moisture slow ed prep arations in
the easter n part of the District. Contacts e xpected slightl y more cor n acres to be planted instead
of soybeans gi ven relati vely favorable price mo vements for cor n and a perception of greater e xport
exposure for so ybeans. While input prices for far mers rose some, vendor s had cut financing rates
to incenti vize sales, in some cases dow n to 0 percent. Cattle prices increased, while eg g, dair y
and hog prices decreased. Contacts repor ted that li vestock o perations w ere in better financial
shape than cro p operations. There w ere limited sales of ne w farm machiner y.
Community Conditions
Communit y, nonprofit, and other nonbusiness contacts repor ted a slight decrease in economic
activity over the repor ting period, and man y expressed concer ns that changes in federal policies
were negati vely affecting small businesses and low- and moderate-income communities. State go v-
ernment officials repor ted little change in acti vity but increased uncer tainty in the economic out-
look. Local labor mar kets w ere stable o verall, though there w ere repor ts of la yoffs at nonprofit
organizations which had been affected b y federal funding cuts. Low- and moderate-income con-
sumer s continued to face ele vated prices, with food p antry leader s noting the p articular challenge
of sourcing adequate amounts of eg gs and chick en, two common sources of protein.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://chicagofed.org/cfsec .Federal Reser ve Bank of Chicago 31
Federal Reser ve Bank of
St. Louis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Emplo yment le vels w ere
unchanged and w age growth has been modest, although contacts repor ted the possibilit y of a
future reduction in force. While prices continued to increase moderatel y, contacts indicated that
the increases w ere star ting to accelerate. District businesses w ere negati vely imp acted b y hea vy
rains, dela ying the deli very of merchandise, postponing e vents, and flooding businesses, far ms,
and neighborhoods. Contacts e xpressed a lot of uncer tainty and an ele vated effor t in estimating
the imp act of tariffs and w ays to reduce cost increases and suppl y disr uptions. The y also noted
that the y were unwilling to mak e changes due to ele vated uncer tainty. The outlook has continued
to decline from neutral to slightl y pessimistic.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. A staffing agenc y in K entuck y
repor ted that hiring acti vity pick ed up at the end of the fir st quar ter, but se veral contacts in the
region repor ted no changes in emplo yment. Retailer s felt the hiring mar ket had shifted back in
their fa vor, with more candidates eager to wor k. One contact indicated tur nover in their call center
had been ver y low recentl y. While there ha ve been fe w repor ts of la yoffs, se veral contacts indi-
cated the possibilit y of reducing headcount in the future. A soft ware ser vice comp any indicated
they created a contingenc y plan to reduce staff, but the y were not acti vely planning to do so.
Wage growth has been modest. One contact repor ted that w ages w ere stable, and another
repor ted the y were expecting no w age increases for 2025. In Missouri, small businesses ha ve
expressed confusion about changes in the state’ s sick lea ve policies.
Prices
Prices ha ve increased moderatel y since our pre vious repor t; how ever, businesses e xpect costs to
increase due to tariffs and are looking for w ays to reduce the imp act on their profits. A retailer indi-
cated that price growth accelerated from the pre vious quar ter, particular ly food prices, with general
merchandise prices increasing slightl y. A phar macy repor ted the y were star ting to see price
increases from manufacturer s, but their costs had not been imp acted yet as the y had built up
32
inventor y. A retailer indicated their initial wor st-case-scenario estimates of tariffs would result in a
less than t wo percent cost increase; how ever, their updated estimates—prior to April 2—indicated
they would face a fi ve percent increase. A manufacturer repor ted that what initiall y look ed to be a
mild imp act had wor sened and w as forcing them to e valuate sourcing o ptions. Large retailer s
announced to their supplier s they would not accept price increases due to tariffs, and an HV AC
supplier repor ted the y would now price their equipment based on shipment dates rather than con-
tract or purchase order dates.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending repor ts were mixed. Hospitalit y contacts repor ted little change in acti vity, with
mixed repor ts on restaurant sales. Hotel bookings ha ve generall y remained strong , with some
repor ts of cancellations due to a pullback in federal spending . Retail sales ha ve been mixed:
Sales of per sonal care items, cosmetics, and groceries increased while sales of home appliances,
toys, and seasonal items decreased. Retailer s catering to higher-income customer s repor ted
sales w ere flat. Auto dealer s repor ts were mixed. In Ar kansas, one dealer continued to repor t
vehicles sales ha ve been w eaker than e xpected and the outlook had deteriorated; Louisville
dealer s repor ted increased showroom traffic, while noting this would lik ely fall as soon as the tar-
iffs took effect. Retailer in ventories ha ve increased slightl y due to a combination of pre-ordering in
advance of tariffs and w eaker-than-e xpected sales.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity has been flat on net since our pre vious repor t. Sur vey indicator s sug gest a
slight increase in manufacturing acti vity in Missouri and Ar kansas, with an increase in emplo y-
ment, production, and ne w order s. An Ar kansas electrical equipment manufacturer repor ted the y
had a three-year backlog of order s and that demand for their products continued to increase. A
vehicle manufacturer repor ted that the y were running at 60 percent of their cap acity. Contacts in
food ser vice, retail, and consumer goods plants in K entuck y repor ted their schedules had been
softening . Contacts repor ted concer ns about price and suppl y issues that had led to higher in ven-
tories and effor ts to domesticate the suppl y chain. Some contacts also repor ted the y were reluc-
tant to e xecute pre vious capital in vestment plans or create ne w ones due to ongoing uncer tainty. A
bourbon distiller y indicated that planning ahead felt almost impossible when trade r ules k ept
changing .
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Activity in the nonfinancial ser vices sector has been mixed. T ranspor tation and logistics contacts
noted an increase in acti vity as steel-related customer s have increased their production in antici-
pation of tariffs. T ranspor tation fir ms remain o ptimistic that demand for materials will continue,Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis 33
but the y are concer ned about tight margins. Recent hea vy rains resulted in postponed or cancelled
deliveries due to imp assable roads and flight cancellations. A contact in auto mechanics repor ted
strong acti vity with lead times of o ver one w eek to schedule rep airs, noting that this uptick in
demand could be related to customer concer ns about tariff imp acts on p arts. A soft ware ser vice
provider repor ted the y had to cut their growth targets and w ere pressuring their sales team to
“push hard” now , as the y expected sales to become increasingl y difficult ne xt quar ter.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Acti ve listings
have increased relati ve to a year ago but sales continue to fall behind. One contact repor ted
obser ving a slowdow n in home buyer and seller acti vity around the time of the tariff announce-
ment. A home builder in Little Rock repor ted their business had slow ed considerabl y and that
houses w ere sta ying on the mar ket longer . In contrast, another builder repor ted that low er mor t-
gage rates had star ted a surge in home building and the increase in acti vity was evident.
Commercial real estate has impro ved slightl y. Contractor s in K entuck y repor ted the commercial
constr uction mar ket remained steady . Suppl y chain disr uptions are imp acting the lead times for
materials, which ha ve pushed project timelines and increased constr uction costs. While some con-
struction comp anies ha ve diversified their supplier net work and begun pre-ordering materials,
other businesses halted projects due to substantial increases in costs due to tariffs. A builder in
Arkansas repor ted their backlog of projects remained stable, with slight increases in commercial
and go vernment-related wor k. How ever, they were concer ned about future slowdow ns due to uncer-
tainty and a decrease in federall y funded projects.
Banking and F inance
Banking acti vity has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. A K entuck y financial institu-
tion repor ted facing tightening margins, which had influenced their willingness to lend, while a
banker in Ar kansas repor ted that projections for lending growth continued to be strong . A bank
repor ted that deposits w ere up comp ared with the same time a year ago, but the y were star ting to
show signs of decline as w ere ne w account o penings. Bank ers repor ted that consumer p ast-due
accounts continued to rise; how ever, the e xposure w as sta ying at 60 da ys or less. Similar ly, they
repor ted obser ving a slight increase in small business bankr uptcies and p ast dues. Bank ers
repor ted that, despite a fe w pock ets of concer n, credit por tfolios w ere strong .
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Agriculture conditions ha ve been unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Wet soil conditions com-
bined with significant rainfall has dela yed planting , and in some areas, flooding will require34 The Beige Book
replanting of cro ps. A far mer in Ar kansas repor ted not being able to sleep for three da ys due to
the disr uptions caused b y the flooding . While o perating incomes for row-cro p farms are e xpected
to be negati ve in 2025, go vernment suppor ts are e xpected to offset losses. The outlook for meat
and poultr y producer s is more fa vorable due to low feed prices and stable demand, p articular ly for
home consumption. Contacts repor ted ele vated le vels of uncer tainty regarding the economic out-
look and trade polic y but ha ve not made an y significant changes to their o perations.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .stlouisfed.org/
research/regional-econom y.Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis 35
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Minneapolis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Ninth District edged low er across most sector s since the last repor t.
Emplo yment decreased and labor demand continued trending dow n. Wage pressure gre w mod-
estly, while prices mo ved moderatel y upw ard. Consumer spending fell slightl y with noted e xcep-
tions, p articular ly on vehicle sales. Constr uction acti vity fell o verall, reflecting ele vated uncer tainty.
Commercial real estate w as mostl y flat, and sales of residential units edged low er. Manufacturing
activity increased modestl y, though sentiment w as mixed. Agricultural conditions remained w eak.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as dow n slightl y since the last repor t, and labor demand cooled notabl y. More fir ms
repor ted a decrease in headcount comp ared with those repor ting an increase. A large staffing fir m
with multiple offices in the District repor ted a dro p in clients and job order s on a monthl y and year-
over-year basis. A second, large staffing fir m repor ted that “customer s have slow ed dow n in
hiring .” Multiple Minnesota contacts said businesses ha ve implemented hiring freezes and tempo -
rary layoffs and ha ve been cutting hour s. Still, a Wisconsin wor kforce contact said, “While senti-
ment has been some what negati ve, we still ha ve plent y of job o penings that need to be filled. ”
Labor a vailabilit y continued to impro ve. A long-ter m care pro vider repor ted “a huge increase” in
applications it nor mally recei ves for o pen jobs, and a health care pro vider noted it w as “flooded
with applications for IT positions. ”
Wage pressure gre w modestl y but softened from le vels ear lier in the year . A sur vey found that the
share of contacts repor ting w age increases fell noticeabl y in March for the second consecuti ve
month. A staffing comp any repor ted that year-o ver-year w age increases for the majorit y of job
placements w ere running just o ver two percent. A central Minnesota contact repor ted that adver-
tised w ages for some entr y-level jobs w ere declining . One wor kforce contact noted that “emplo yers
appear to ha ve gained more le verage in w age negotiations. ”
Prices
Prices increased moderatel y overall, with greater pressure on wholesale prices. More than a third
of District fir ms increased the prices the y charged to customer s in March from a month ear lier,
36
according to a monthl y survey, while more than half repor ted increased input prices. Contacts in
manufacturing and constr uction repor ted that the y saw raw materials prices increase in anticip a-
tion of tariffs, p articular ly for steel and aluminum products. “Steel prices are surging faster than
they did during the 2019-2021 period when w e experienced record-setting steel prices, ” com-
mented a metal fabricator . Some contacts repor ted placing surcharges on products using metal
inputs, while a fe w repor ted increasing prices of other outputs to compensate, and other s saw
declining margins. Retail fuel prices increased modestl y in most District states since the
last repor t.
Worker Experience
Repor ts from labor and wor kforce de velopment contacts reflected ongoing challenges for wor kers
and job seek ers, topped with added uncer tainty from federal policies. Some contacts feared that
tariffs and federal spending cutbacks would hur t a labor mar ket that, while softening , remained in
good shape. In Montana, a building trades labor contact attributed the growing number of “peo ple
on the bench” to the slowdow n of federall y funded projects. Another labor contact in Michigan ’s
Upper P eninsula w arned that “the labor mar ket door is about to slam shut . . . and consumer con-
fidence and spending is going to plunge. ” Contacts also highlighted p articular stress on Indian
Countr y due to “frozen federal funding ,” while immigrant wor kers in a range of occup ations w ere
feeling uncer tain about their future.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending fell slightl y overall. Retail contacts w ere split on recent sales trends. Recent
credit card transactions in the District show ed slow er spending comp ared with a month ear lier.
Tourism contacts also repor ted declines in Canadian tra velers and related spending; a Nor th
Dakota retailer saw a “deep imp act” star ting in mid-F ebruary, pushing fir st-quar ter re venues dow n
seven percent. How ever, vehicle sales rose across the District, possibl y a shor t-term effect as
people “buy now to sa ve . . . mone y from the future tariffs, ” according to one District dealer ship.
Numerous contacts noted a more cautious, cost-conscious consumer . Several bank ers in Montana
said consumer loan acti vity was slow because peo ple w ere ner vous to acquire debt. A manufac-
turer of consumer goods said, “It is e xtremel y difficult to predict consumer beha vior now and for
the rest of the year .”
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction fell since the last repor t. While some fir ms repor ted that acti vity was picking up with
spring , a larger share repor ted a decline in acti vity, most often citing economic uncer tainty. A
Minnesota heating and cooling fir m said it w as “bracing for an unpredictable year .” Numerous con-
tacts, p articular ly in architecture and engineering , repor ted dela ys in projects mo ving forw ard. AFederal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis 37
Minnesota fir m said, “Ne w projects ha ve dried up completel y in the fir st quar ter. . . . Uncer tainty
and chaos at the federal le vel has frozen prett y much all acti vity.” Another said that “clients are
hesitant to proceed with design until some sor t of cer tainty and predictabilit y comes back. ” Pre-
liminar y data on housing per mits sug gested relati vely stable acti vity in March.
Commercial real estate w as flat o verall. Office vacanc y remained high, but demand gre w among
smaller tenants, leading to modest impro vements in sp ace absor ption. Industrial, retail, and multi-
family vacanc y rates w ere stable, helped b y generall y slow acti vity in ne w constr uction in those
sector s. Residential real estate w as widel y lower; March home sales fell among most mar kets
with a vailable data.
Manufacturing
District manufacturing acti vity increased modestl y overall since the pre vious repor t, though
sentiment w as mixed among contacts; some repor ted negati ve imp acts from tariffs or e xpected
tariffs. More than half of manufacturer s responding to a monthl y business conditions sur vey
repor ted an increase in order s in March from a month ear lier. Some contacts noted a bump in
order s due to customer s seeking to build in ventories ahead of e xpected price increases. An inde x
of regional manufacturing conditions indicated acti vity increased in Minnesota, Nor th Dak ota, and
South Dak ota in March from the pre vious month. Some producer s of constr uction input repor ted
cancellation of order s amid uncer tainty about the outlook.
Agriculture Energ y and Natural Resources
District agricultural conditions remained w eak heading into planting season. Grain producer s con-
tinued to str uggle due to low commodit y prices, while cattle o perations w ere stronger . Industr y
sources w ere concer ned about widespread drought conditions because, as one contact noted,
“liquidit y on balance sheets is gone and another bad year would be ver y difficult to sur vive for
most far mers.” District oil and gas e xploration acti vity was unchanged since the pre vious repor t.
Operations w ere idled at t wo District iron ore mines due to o veraccumulation of in ventor y amid
decreased steel demand.
Minority- and W omen-Owned Business Enter prises
Activity among minorit y- and women-ow ned business enter prises (MWBEs) fell slightl y, with e xpec-
tations of fur ther softening o ver the coming w eeks. In ventor y levels rose among most contacts. A
manufacturing comp any in Minnesota said it w as “pre-buying aluminum in anticip ation to tariffs. ”
The majorit y of contacts repor ted higher nonlabor input prices and thinner profit margins. Man y
expected their ow n final prices to increase in the foreseeable future. A retailer in Nor th Dak ota
expressed concer ns about the effects of tariffs on prices and suppl y. Job o penings trended dow n,38 The Beige Book
and headcount remained unchanged on balance. O ver half of contacts described the fir st three
months of 2025 as “wor se than e xpected. ” A Minnesota manufacturer said, “W e’ve been in busi-
ness 12 year s, and [this quar ter] w as lik e our fir st or second year .”
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .minneapolisfed.org/
region-and-communit y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis 39
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Kansas City
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the T enth District gre w slightl y, but e xpectations about business acti vity and
consumer spending w eakened considerabl y comp ared to the last repor t. Moreo ver, businesses ’
commentar y about economic conditions shifted rapidl y in recent w eeks, as uncer tainty rose
quickl y, concer ns about tariffs w eighed on decision making , and businesses sought to adapt their
plans. The majorit y of contacts indicated the most lik ely change to their business plans this year
would be to the prices charged for their finished products. Ex pectations for price growth rose at a
robust rate accordingl y, though diminished demand at consumer ser vices fir ms softened cur rent
and e xpected price pressures some what. Ser vices fir ms highlighted changes in hiring plans or
headcount as other lik ely steps to adapt to changing conditions, but emplo yment w as generall y
steady across the District o ver the p ast month. Se veral actions b y businesses to impro ve liquidit y
and cash positions w ere highlighted in recent w eeks, including seeking larger credit lines, selling
inventor y at discounts and selling long-ter m assets.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels remained steady across the T enth District. Job growth w as subdued as hiring
freezes repor tedly became a more common occur rence. One contact stated, “this is not the time
to commit to adding labor ,” citing heightened uncer tainty. More generall y, when ask ed what
changes in business plans to adapt to cur rent conditions w ere most lik ely, services fir ms identi-
fied constraining hiring plans or reducing headcounts as lik ely, but not the primar y steps the y will
take. Manufacturing fir ms indicated an y changes to their wor kforce would be more of a last resor t.
Slowing labor demand repor tedly led to w eakness in the junior labor mar ket for ne w grads and ne w
entrants.
Prices
Prices increased moderatel y in recent w eeks on a verage, but e xpectations of price growth o ver the
next six months broadl y rose at a robust rate. The majorit y of contacts indicated the most lik ely
change to their business plans to adapt to changes in economic conditions this year would be
“prices charged for finished products. ” Manufacturing and retail sector s (i.e., goods sector s)
emphasized their cur rent pricing does not yet full y incor porate the cost pressures associated with
tariffs, implemented or e xpected. Contacts indicated p assing rising costs to customer s will occur
40
over the ne xt several months and anticip ated goods prices will rise broadl y as man y supplier s are
spreading cost increases across their entire product por tfolios. The acceleration of price pres-
sures in goods sector s (cur rent and e xpected) stands in contrast to repor ted deceleration in con-
sumer ser vice price growth. T ravel and lodging prices repor tedly softened, and housing prices w ere
stable or e ven declined in cer tain p arts of the District.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending gre w slightl y over the last month, but with mixed acti vity across categories.
Auto sales rose at a robust rate as ag gressi ve pricing intended to gar ner cash flow and clear
inventor y facilitated a recent pickup in sales, which w as not e xpected to per sist. Household pur-
chases of other durable goods also rose, but growth in spending on ser vices w as repor tedly much
weaker. Recent consumer spending on tra vel was dow n modestl y, and contacts described future
expectations as “a cliff, ” with a substantial decline in tra vel bookings through the summer . Health-
care contacts repor ted a moderate decline in the use of pre ventati ve care and non-essential ser-
vices. Businesses ’ expectations for growth in consumer spending w eakened fur ther in recent
weeks, with projected growth in household spending roughl y flat on a verage.
Community Conditions
Food banks and p antries across the T enth District said the y were contending with the combination
of rising demand, funding cuts, and substantial uncer tainty about funding o ver the coming year .
Most p antries mentioned the y expanded ser vices o ver the last year , but the y still str uggled to
meet demand for food assistance. Funding cuts from the USD A were highlighted as p articular ly
impactful regarding ser vices for senior s. Specificall y, one p antry repor ted cutting back the amount
of food the y can gi ve from three to fi ve da ys of shelf stable food to t wo da ys of food e very 30 da ys
due to funding cuts. P antries also e xpressed heightened funding uncer tainty across go vernment,
corporations, and indi viduals and uncer tainty about food price pressures.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity
Manufacturing acti vity in the T enth District declined modestl y, though the p ace of contraction
slowed. Man y firms began reassessing product lines, with some deciding to scale back production
of low er-margin, highl y competiti ve goods that lack ed pro prietar y advantages. While some manu-
facturing businesses repor ted interest in procuring domesticall y sourced materials and compo -
nents, the y indicated that interest has not translated into ne w contracts due to costs and cap acity
constraints. Business leader s indicated recent strateg y discussions shifted aw ay from capital
investments aimed at inno vation and efficienc y toward a focus almost entirel y on mitigating tariff-
related risks. An aerosp ace fir m shared that the le vel of competiti veness for k ey materials
including metals ha ve pushed lead times to bet ween 50 to 100 w eeks. Although manufacturingFederal Reser ve Bank of Kansas Cit y41
firms remained generall y optimistic about the broader econom y, their confidence w as tempered b y
growing concer ns about the stabilit y of economic conditions.
Real Estate and Constr uction
The deli very of ne wly constr ucted multifamil y housing units remained ele vated, but contacts noted
the absor ption of ne w units slow ed significantl y. With more a vailable units coming online, rent
growth stagnated and e ven declined in cer tain p arts of the District. Sales and transaction acti vity
were rising ear ly in the year , but contacts noted the number of deals that fell ap art ticked up in
recent w eeks and man y more deals faced significant or indeter minate dela ys in closing . A fe w
commercial real estate in vestor s indicated replacement costs are e xpected to rise, which the y
anticip ated ma y lead to another increase in insurance premiums ne xt year . These future premium
price increases repor tedly weighed on the viabilit y of cer tain projects and transactions, but the y
were noted as ter tiary concer ns.
Community and Regional Banking
Loan demand w as mostl y unchanged on a verage, though se veral bank ers noted demand for resi-
dential mor tgage loans w as trending up. Some bank ers indicated se veral businesses sought
increased funding cap acity to shore up their a vailable liquidit y. Man y contacts repor ted a modest
tightening of credit standards for commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans due
to changes in the economic outlook. Loan qualit y remained stable e xcept for agriculture lending ,
where conditions w eakened. Most respondents indicated the y anticip ate some deterioration in
credit perfor mance o ver the ne xt six months due to heightened uncer tainty weighing on the o verall
economic outlook.
Energ y
Tenth District oil and gas acti vity grew modestl y. Just o ver half of contacts repor ted steady acti vity,
and about a quar ter of fir ms—mostl y smaller o perator s—repor ted growth. Despite some
increases in drilling , firms’ revenues, profits, and capital e xpenditures continued to decline on net.
Most oil and gas o perator s expect acti vity to remain steady in the near-ter m, while near ly a third
expect a pickup in acti vity. How ever, some contacts e xpect recent trade polic y changes will
dampen acti vity or re venues o ver the ne xt year and man y anticip ate higher costs for k ey inputs lik e
steel. Additionall y, firms’ long-ter m price e xpectations are still below the price needed to suppor t a
substantial increase in drilling . Accordingl y, contacts noted future production growth could remain
subdued for the foreseeable future.42 The Beige Book
Agriculture
Economic conditions in the T enth District far m econom y weakened ear ly in April. Prices for se veral
key commodities declined alongside increased uncer tainty surrounding e xport prospects. Profit
opportunities for cro p producer s remained limited. In the latest sur vey of agricultural credit condi-
tions, lender s repor ted gradual deterioration in far m loan rep ayment rates and notable increases
in car ryover debt and loan restr ucturing comp ared to a year ago. Credit conditions w eakened com-
paratively more in por tions of the District most hea vily concentrated in cro p production while
strong cattle prices suppor ted far m finances in other areas. Production costs, ele vated li ving
expenses, and fur ther declines in wor king capital w ere cited as k ey concer ns, with some contacts
noting that more highl y leveraged bor rowers were selling longer-ter m assets to impro ve liquidit y.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .KansasCit yFed.org/
research/regional-research .Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas Cit y43
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Dallas
Summar y of Economic Activity
Growth in the Ele venth District econom y slow ed to a slight p ace o ver the repor ting period. Nonfi-
nancial ser vices acti vity was flat, but manufacturing output rose modestl y. Retail sales dipped,
and loan demand increased slightl y. Commercial real estate acti vity was stable, while housing
demand remained tepid. Oilfield acti vity rose modestl y. Emplo yment and w ages gre w, while input
cost pressures accelerated largel y due to the e xpected p ass through of higher tariff costs. Out-
looks wor sened with w eakening demand, polic y uncer tainty, and inflation cited as primar y con-
cerns going forw ard. Numerous contacts voiced concer n that heightened uncer tainty stemming
from on-again, off-again tariffs w as making it increasingl y challenging to plan. Stricter immigration
policy, federal go vernment la yoffs, and a cutback in spending w ere also cited as head winds
for growth.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment rose modestl y over the repor ting period. Se veral contacts noted a w ait-and-see pos-
ture on hiring amid ele vated domestic and trade polic y uncer tainty, while some fir ms, including air-
lines, cited la yoffs. Energ y executi ves said la yoffs are e xpected this year , and that the p ace ma y
increase if oil prices remain close to or fall below $60. W age pressures w ere stable during the
repor ting period. One manufacturer noted cutting w ages due to cash flow issues. F irms expect
wage growth to slow to 3.4 percent o ver the ne xt 12 months, dow n from 3.8 percent o ver the p ast
12 months.
Prices
Prices continued to increase at a moderate p ace. F irms broadl y expressed trepidation about the
effect of tariffs on demand and costs, with some contacts indicating the y will not be able to p ass
on the increases to clients. Se veral manufacturer s cited higher raw material prices. The imp act of
tariffs on steel and machiner y prices w as a drag on the energ y sector , particular ly for fir ms with
ongoing constr uction projects for whom the materials w ere a sizable share of costs. A fe w con-
struction and real estate contacts said that tariffs had gi ven their supplier s an e xcuse to raise
prices, and some retailer s cited being notified b y their vendor s of for thcoming tariff surcharges.
44
Manufacturer s and retailer s expect selling price increases to accelerate o ver the ne xt 12 months,
while ser vice sector e xecuti ves e xpect price growth to remain moderate.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing output rebounded in March after w eakening in F ebruary. The pickup in production
spanned both durable and nondurable goods, with strength seen in transpor tation equipment,
machiner y, computer products, and food manufacturing . Utilization rates at Gulf Coast refineries
remained at health y levels despite seasonal softness. While manufacturing acti vity pick ed up, out-
looks wor sened. Manufacturer s widel y voiced concer n that tariffs w ere becoming an increasing
source of uncer tainty, dampening demand, pushing up prices, and dela ying and complicating busi-
ness planning .
Retail Sales
Retail sales dipped during the repor ting period. Declining growth in sales of nondurable consumer
products out weighed growth in durable goods. Among durables, auto vehicle sales strengthened in
anticip ation of the announced tariffs. O verall retail outlooks w eakened, as the potential imp act of
tariffs on pricing and demand w eighed on sentiment.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Activity in nonfinancial ser vices stalled out following moderate growth in the pre vious repor ting
period. Re venue rose in some sector s, how ever, with increases seen in transpor tation, health, and
professional and business ser vices. Demand for staffing ser vices w as flat to slightl y up. Air lines
noted that p assenger demand had softened, with some of the w eakness attributable to a mar ked
decline in federal go vernment tra vel. P ort traffic remained strong as comp anies accelerated their
inventor y purchases ahead of tariffs. Growth p aused in the leisure and hospitalit y sector , which
was attributed to uncer tainty causing consumer s to be more cautious with their discretionar y
spending . Outlooks deteriorated o verall, with numerous contacts stating that heightened uncer-
tainty surrounding domestic and trade polic y was hindering their abilit y to plan with confidence.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Housing demand remained tepid. The spring selling season w as characterized as modest and
choppy, with a slight pickup in sales seen tow ard the end of the repor ting period. Incenti ves for
new homes, including price discounts, remained pre valent. How ever, there w ere scattered repor ts
of builder s being less ag gressi ve on mor tgage rate buy dow ns due to high costs. Home in vento -
ries rose, and prices w ere flat to dow n. Outlooks w ere cautious, w eighed dow n by slug gishFederal Reser ve Bank of Dallas 45
demand, high mor tgage rates, and concer ns regarding the imp act of immigration and trade polic y
on consumer sentiment, labor suppl y, and constr uction costs.
Commercial real estate acti vity was stable during the repor ting period. Ap artment demand
remained solid, though rent growth continued to be lackluster . Office absor ption w as positi ve in
some major mar kets, though vacancies remained ele vated. Industrial demand sta yed positi ve but
there w as apprehension about the imp act of shifting trade policies on leasing acti vity and in vest-
ment sales.
Financial Ser vices
Loan volume and loan demand growth decelerated shar ply in March. Credit tightening continued,
but loan pricing declined. Loan nonperfor mance increased. In addition, bank ers repor ted that busi-
ness acti vity contracted after e xpanding o ver the last three months, and their outlooks retreated
to cautiousl y optimistic. While respondents e xpect an impro vement in loan demand and business
activity six months from now , the sentiment is less broad-based, and it is tempered b y expecta-
tions of a continued increase in loan nonperfor mance.
Energ y
Activity in the oil and gas sector increased modestl y over the repor ting period. While drilling and
completion acti vity is e xpected to remain steady o ver the ne xt few months, contacts w ere wor ried
that low er oil prices, eroding global growth outlooks, and tariffs would dampen acti vity later this
year and low er spending plans for 2026. Outlooks wor sened, and contacts e xpressed concer n
that heightened uncer tainty surrounding tax, trade, and regulator y polic y was making planning diffi-
cult and would lik ely hinder in vestment decisions.
Agriculture
Drought conditions per sisted in p arts of the district, though widespread rainfall w as recei ved late
in the repor ting period and pro vided much-needed moisture. Some e xtreme w eather w as seen,
from wind and dust stor ms in the T exas p anhandle to flooding along the coast. Grain prices mo ved
down. Cattle and beef prices continued to trend up o ver most of the repor ting period, with beef
prices rising to ne w highs, though cattle prices faltered some what in ear ly April. Drought condi-
tions are a hurdle for rancher s looking to e xpand their herds. Looking ahead, contacts e xpressed
some concer n for agricultural e xports due to tariff imp acts.46 The Beige Book
Community P erspectives
Demand for social ser vices remained ele vated. Contacts said man y private comp anies w ere under
a hiring freeze, and the jobs posted online w ere not being filled. Nonprofit organizations, p articu-
larly those hea vily reliant on federal funding , repor ted trimming budgets, implementing hiring
freezes, la ying off wor kers, and dow nsizing programming . There w as a repor t of a housing ser vices
nonprofit possibl y shutting dow n operations in mid-2025 due to funding disr uptions. One contact
noted that landlords w ere less willing to rent ap artments to tenants reliant on federal funds due to
the cur rent polic y climate and funding freezes. Some social ser vice organizations said the y have
obser ved a slowdow n in applications for ne w benefits and trepidation among clients seeking ser-
vices in light of recent immigration policies. Research uni versities w ere also facing significant
uncer tainty due to the funding cuts from the National Institute of Health and National Science
Foundation.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .dallasfed.org/
research/te xas.Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas 47
Federal Reser ve Bank of
San F rancisco
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the T welfth District slow ed slightl y during the mid-F ebruary through March
repor ting period. The step -down in economic acti vity was broad based, repor ted across man y
industries and different geographies. Emplo yment le vels fell some what, and emplo yers across
industries and geographies repor ted recent and planned la yoffs. W ages gre w slightl y. Overall
prices rose modestl y, and price pressures intensified for a wide range of impor ted goods and
materials. Demand for retail and ser vices w eakened as both households and fir ms w ere more cau-
tious with their spending amidst ele vated economic uncer tainty. Manufacturing acti vity decreased
slightl y, while conditions in the agriculture and resource-related sector s were largel y unchanged.
Activity in residential and commercial real estate mar kets softened slightl y on net, and lending
activity was stable. Demand for communit y suppor t services remained high. O verall sentiment and
the economic outlook wor sened materiall y relati ve to the prior repor ting period, and se veral con-
tacts e xpected a notable dow nturn in labor mar ket conditions o ver the coming months.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels fell slightl y in recent w eeks, and the labor mar ket outlook generall y deterio -
rated. Contacts across industries and geographies repor ted recent and planned la yoffs, with some
citing low er demand from both pri vate- and public-sector customer s and other s seeking cost effi-
ciencies. Emplo yers who sought to hire found it generall y easier to attract qualified applicants,
though engineer s and wor kers in the skilled trades w ere notable e xceptions. A large hospitalit y
services pro vider plans to hire significantl y fewer seasonal wor kers this year due to low er expected
demand as w ell as to p ause hiring wor k visa holder s amidst polic y uncer tainty.
Wages continued to grow at a slight p ace, in line with prior repor ting periods. Contacts described
the cur rent labor mar ket to be generall y favorable to emplo yers, with fe wer opportunities for pro -
specti ve emplo yees to negotiate star ting p ay. Nevertheless, recent increases in state and local
minimum w age mandates continued to put upw ard pressure on w ages for some positions in the
service sector , especiall y in Califor nia.
48
Prices
Overall price le vels rose modestl y in recent w eeks, at a slightl y faster p ace than in the pre vious
repor t. Contacts repor ted higher price pressures for a wide range of impor ted goods and raw
materials, including aluminum, steel, lumber , electrical components, app arel, foot wear, as w ell as
various wholesale and retail food items. Cost of some ser vices remained ele vated, p articular ly for
insurance, health care, and utilities. Some leisure and hospitalit y businesses facing softening
demand low ered their prices to retain and attract customer s. Se veral contacts recei ved price
increase notices from supplier s, citing recentl y implemented and anticip ated increases in tariff
rates. Contacts generall y expected inflationar y pressures to intensify o ver the coming months.
Most contacts repor ted that the y plan to p ass increased input costs on to customer s, but some
expected to absorb cost increases to preser ve mar ket share.
Community Conditions
Communit y suppor t services pro viders repor ted deteriorating conditions. Demand for housing and
food assistance ser vices remained high. Organizations pro viding wor kforce and economic de velop-
ment ser vices focused on sector s experiencing strong demand including health care, skilled
trades, and technical manufacturing . Funding fell from public and pri vate sector sources because
of recent changes to federal polic y as w ell as reduced discretionar y and philanthro pic spending b y
private businesses. Funding shor tfalls led some nonprofits to cut ser vices and program offerings
and to la y off wor kers. Contacts in the Los Angeles region noted that demand for communit y ser-
vices and suppor t related to wildfire reco very effor ts remained high.
Retail T rade and Ser vices
Retail sales fell modestl y in recent w eeks. Se veral contacts repor ted a notable dro p in discre-
tionar y spending for big-tick et items such as car s and large appliances, home impro vement prod-
ucts, and nonessential groceries. Demand for essential goods remained steady . Repor ts indicated
that man y households w ere cautious with their spending decisions in anticip ation of a dow nturn in
labor mar ket conditions. Retailer s generall y expected sales to soften fur ther o ver the
coming months.
Demand for consumer and business ser vices w eakened moderatel y. Consumer demand for air
travel, hotels, and enter tainment e vents slow ed—an at ypical trend for the ear ly spring growth
period. In addition, se veral contacts repor ted w eak booking volumes for the summer . Restaurant
sales varied b y segment, with fast-food franchises faring better than full-ser vice establishments.
Some retailer s and hospitalit y providers in Nor thern Washington and Souther n Califor nia repor ted
a material dro p in cross-border tourism with Canada and Me xico. Se veral repor ts from the busi-
ness and professional ser vices sector s highlighted slow er demand, including for group tra vel,Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco 49
securit y, catering , and janitorial ser vices. One business ser vice pro vider in Souther n Califor nia
noted that ongoing economic uncer tainty resulted in spending cuts and austerit y measures from
their cor porate clients.
Manufacturing
Conditions in the manufacturing sector w eakened slightl y in recent w eeks. Demand softened for
some manufactured products such as utilit y infrastr ucture components, office fur niture, lumber
products, and p ackaging machiner y, as customer s were feeling more price sensiti ve and uncer tain
about economic conditions. In contrast, demand w as solid for equipment rep air parts. Firms
repor tedly paused or reduced capital in vestment plans, citing economic uncer tainty and low er
demand for their products. How ever, one manufacturer of p ackaging machiner y kept existing
investment plans in place based on higher order pipelines. Materials w ere largel y available with
typical lead times. Some manufacturer s held in ventories at ele vated le vels to w eather rising input
cost and a vailabilit y issues.
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
Conditions in the agriculture and resource-related sector s remained mostl y unchanged. Retail
demand for agricultural products w as solid o verall. Contacts raised concer ns that changes in trade
policy could reduce demand for agricultural e xports, particular ly fruits and nuts. Cro p yields w ere
solid, and ear ly indications for this growing season w ere good. Labor a vailabilit y was largel y suffi-
cient to meet demand, though contacts wor ried about future a vailabilit y constraints from changes
in immigration polic y. Production costs remained ele vated due to w eather-related disr uptions and
high input costs. At the same time, prices that grow ers recei ved for man y agricultural commodi-
ties, such as cor n, wheat, and ha y, were repor tedly low. Contacts held back on planned capital
investments, citing high costs and uncer tainty about future prices.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Slow acti vity in residential real estate continued. Prices of single-famil y homes remained high.
Nevertheless, demand w as repor tedly solid in some p arts of the Mountain W est. Multifamil y rents
rose in line with inflation. Constr uction of ne w residential pro perties slow ed overall. De velopers
cited higher costs for constr uction materials as w ell as uncer tainty about economic conditions,
including future demand from consumer s facing higher home prices and mor tgage rates.
Conditions in commercial real estate w eakened some what. Leasing acti vity for w arehousing , retail,
and wholesale sp ace fell as tenants p aused e xpansion plans. Office leasing strengthened slightl y.
Some landlords repor ted an increase in rent p ayment issues as tenants str uggled with rising
costs. Plans for ne w constr uction projects w ere held back because of tighter a vailabilit y of mate-50 The Beige Book
rials, increases in costs of some inputs such as steel and lumber , and ele vated financing costs.
Contractor quotes also rose, repor tedly driven b y existing and anticip ated tariffs. Constr uction
activity remained solid for public projects such as infrastr ucture.
Financial Institutions
Lending acti vity was steady . Repor ts indicated that business clients continued to place most plans
for ne w bor rowing and in vestment on hold in response to ongoing economic uncer tainty. Demand
for consumer loans, including mor tgages, remained generall y subdued due to ele vated interest
rates. Competition for deposits eased of late, and deposit flows w ere steady . Credit and asset
qualit y were repor tedly high despite some uptick in consumer loan delinquencies.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .frbsf.org/
research-and-insights/publications/san-francisco -fed-twelfth-district-beige-book/ .Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco 51
www.federalreser ve.go v
0425