 
     For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. 
    Wednesday     January 11, 2012 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
   
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
        
December 2011 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT 
  
DECEMBER 2011 
 
 
 
  
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . i 
 First District - Boston  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I-1 
 Second District - New York  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  II-1 
 Third District - Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  III-1 
 
Fourth District - Cleveland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  IV-1 
 Fifth District - Richmond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   V-1 
 Sixth District - Atlanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1 
 Seventh District - Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  V II-1 
 Eighth District - St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VIII-1 
 Ninth District - Minneapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . I X-1 
 Tenth District - Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  X-1 
 Eleventh District - Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1 
 Twelfth District - San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XII- 1 
 
i 
  
Summary* 
 
 Contact reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that national economic activity 
expanded at a modest to moderate pace during the re porting period of late November through the end of 
December.  Seven Districts characterized growth as modest; of the remaining five, New York and 
Chicago noted a pickup in the pace of growth, Dall as and San Francisco reported moderate growth, and 
Richmond indicated that activity flattened or improve d slightly.  Compared with prior summaries, the 
reports on balance suggest ongoing improvement in ec onomic conditions in recent months, with most 
Districts highlighting more favorable conditions than  identified in reports from the late spring through 
early fall.  Consumer spending picked up in most Districts,  reflecting significant gains in holiday retail sales 
compared with last year’s season, and activity in the travel and tourism sector expanded in most areas.  
Demand strengthened further for nonfinancial services,  including professional and transportation services.  
Manufacturing activity generally continued to expa nd, although the pace of growth has slowed for 
selected subsectors such as technology products.  Agricultural producers and extractors of natural 
resources reported generally robust co nditions.  Activity stayed sluggish in residential real estate markets, 
and conditions in commercial real estate markets rema ined somewhat soft overall but showed signs of 
ongoing improvement in several Districts.  Reports from financial institutions generally indicated a slight 
uptick in loan demand by businesses, along w ith improvements in overall credit quality.   
 Upward price pressures and price increases remained quite limited for most categories of final 
goods and services, as the effects of prior increases in the costs of se lected inputs have eased.  Upward 
wage pressures were modest overall, although a few Districts noted substantial compensation increases 
for workers with specialized skills  in selected sectors and regions. 
 Consumer Spending and Tourism 
 Reports on consumer spending were  favorable in general.  Most Districts reported that holiday 
retail sales were up noticeably over last year’s seaso n, with New York and Dallas describing sales as 
“brisk” and “robust,” respectively.   Consumer spe nding and confidence generally were characterized as 
firmer than in recent reporting periods, although Ka nsas City reported that spending softened.  Items 
                                                           
 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Franci sco and based on information collected on or before 
December 30, 2011.  This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts 
outside the Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
ii 
 identified as the strongest holiday sellers by various Districts included consumer electronics and jewelry, 
and Chicago noted that luxury items in general sold  well during the holiday season.  By contrast, many 
Districts reported weak sales and excess inventories of  warm clothing, due to unusually mild weather.  
Retail inventories more broadly were reported to be at  or near desired levels, consistent with retailers’ 
sales expectations.  Boston, New York, and Minneapolis  noted exceptional growth in Internet sales for 
selected items.  Sales of new autom obiles continued to pick up in most Districts.  Among the more 
favorable reports, Atlanta noted that the pace of auto  sales in November and December was “the strongest 
in over two years,” and strong demand and sales we re reported as well by New York, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, and Minneapolis.  Reports from most Districts pointed to solid gain s or high levels of travel and tourist activity, 
with pickups evident in both the business and leis ure segments.  Tourism activity was reported to be 
above the levels from twelve months earlier by Bo ston, New York, Richmond, and Atlanta, and Boston 
contacts expect double-digit growth in hotel revenues in 2012.  By contrast, Minneapolis reported that 
tourist activity was down because limited snowfall has stymied outdoor activities such as skiing and 
snowmobiling, while Kansas City reported a declin e because winter storms hampered some tourist 
activity.  Business travel activity also has expanded of late and is above le vels from twelve months 
earlier, according to Atlanta and San Francisco.   
Nonfinancial Services 
 Demand generally strengthened further for nonfinan cial services.  Providers of professional and 
business services such as consulting, advertising, engi neering, and legal services expanded their activities 
according to Boston, Richmond, St. Louis, and Mi nneapolis.  Sales of technology services to businesses 
and consumers grew further, according to Minnea polis, Kansas City, and San Francisco, although the 
pace of growth slowed from earlier in 2011.  Provi ders of temporary staffing services saw strong and 
rising demand in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts but below-average seasonal hiring 
in the Chicago and Dallas Districts.  Reports from th e health-care sector generally pointed to growth as 
well, with Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Lo uis highlighting construction activity and bank lending 
aimed at health-care providers.  The exception to growing demand for health-care services was San 
Francisco, which reported an ongoing decline in hospital admissions.  Demand for shipping and transportation services generally expanded.  New Yo rk and Atlanta reported a significant increase in 
shipping tonnage by truck, and Dallas noted a broad-b ased increase in shipments by rail.  Atlanta reported 
that port activity was up over twelve months earlier due  to “notable strength in exports,” while Richmond 
iii 
 reported a decline in port activity that was largely a ttributed to reduced imports.  Air travel was above 
year-ago levels in the Atlanta District but unchanged  over the past six weeks in the Dallas District.  
 Manufacturing  
 Manufacturing activity expanded in most Districts, generally continuing its steady overall 
expansion or, in the case of Atlanta, reversing a sl owdown in prior periods.  For the sector as a whole, 
further growth or improved conditions  were reported by almost all Districts, except for Cleveland, 
Richmond, and Dallas, which reported that activity w as largely stable or mixed, and Kansas City, which 
noted a slight decline.  The strongest reports  came from subsectors such as heavy equipment 
manufacturing and steel, for which demand has been booste d by robust growth in the energy, agricultural, 
and auto manufacturing sectors.  Reports from Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis confirmed vibrant activity for auto manufacturers, primarily for domestic makes.  By contrast, demand 
remained somewhat weak for firms in housing-rela ted subsectors, such as a door manufacturer in the 
Richmond District, furniture manufacturers there and in  the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts, and 
makers of lumber and wood products in the San Fr ancisco District.  Demand for computers and related 
electronic components rose further, according to Ka nsas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  However, the 
pace of growth has slowed significantly from earlie r in 2011, and Boston noted declining sales of 
semiconductors, mainly due to weaker demand from Asia.  According to Dallas and San Francisco, 
aircraft makers saw further demand increases.  Tho se Districts also noted weak domestic demand for 
refined petroleum products that was largely or comp letely offset by robust foreign demand.  Demand 
grew smartly for food producers in the Philadelphia a nd Dallas Districts, but in the Kansas City District 
food processing was one of the weakest performers w ithin the manufacturing sector.  Export sales of 
assorted manufactured products generally performed well according to Atlanta and Chicago, although 
slower economic growth in China and Europe held back sales for some manufacturers.   
 Cleveland reported that capacity utilization rema ined below normal in most subsectors, with the 
notable exception of steel producers, who were operati ng at or near normal levels.  Similarly, Chicago 
noted that some auto suppliers appear to be appr oaching capacity constraints, which may limit further 
production increases in the near term.  Atlanta repor ted that recent flooding in Thailand was likely to 
exert modest restraint on auto production.  Ongoing capital investments and increases in capacity were 
reported for various manufacturing concerns in the St . Louis and Minneapolis Districts and for an auto 
producer in the Richmond District. 
 
iv 
 Real Estate and Construction 
 Activity in residential real estate markets larg ely held steady at very low levels, with the 
exception of further increases in the construction of multifamily residences.  The pace of single-family 
home sales remained quite sluggish throughout the country, although the Dallas District reported a 
modest increase over the prior reporting period.  Some Districts, such as Boston and Atlanta, noted that home sales exceeded levels from twelve months earlier, but mainly because the earlier levels reflected a substantial drop following the expira tion of the homebuyers’ tax credit in mid-2010.  Prices were largely 
stable on a short-term basis in most areas but in many instances were below their levels from twelve 
months earlier.  Extensive inventories of distressed  properties were reported to be a source of price 
restraint in the Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts.  Construction of single-family 
homes remained at depressed levels in most areas an d fell further in some, such as the Philadelphia, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts.  However, Cleveland reported that activity improved 
during the past couple of months.  In contrast to the soft market for single-fam ily residences, the market 
for rental units tightened in some areas such as th e New York and Richmond Districts, and construction 
of multifamily residences rose in the Boston, Philadel phia, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. 
 Demand for nonresidential real estate remained somewhat soft overall but improved in a number 
of Districts.  Vacancy rates and other indicators in markets for office space were largely unchanged in the 
major metropolitan markets in the Bo ston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts.  
By contrast, New York reported that demand for o ffice space “picked up in late 2011,” causing vacancy 
rates to edge down and asking rents to rise.  Minnea polis, Kansas City, Dallas, San Francisco, Atlanta, 
and Chicago all reported stronger dema nd for commercial real estate compared with earlier in 2011, and 
the latter two Districts also noted a pickup in nonresi dential construction activity.  Cleveland and Chicago 
reported that the strongest demand and most extensiv e construction activity has been for industrial and 
health-care facilities, while Minneapolis highli ghted growing demand for industrial space and San 
Francisco stressed growing demand emanating from the information technology sector. 
 
Banking and Finance 
 Lending activity edged up overall,  primarily due to increased loan demand by businesses.  Most 
Districts that commented on lending activity indicated little or no change in overall loan demand, but the 
remaining Districts identified increases rather than  decreases.  New York reported a pronounced increase 
in demand for commercial mortgages, and Cleveland al so noted increased demand in this category.  Both 
Dallas and San Francisco noted a slight uptick in co mmercial and industrial lend ing.  Consumer lending 
was largely flat compared with the prior reporting pe riod, although auto loans rose in Cleveland.  New 
v 
 York, Philadelphia, and Cleveland reported demand gr owth or continued strength for refinancing of 
residential mortgages. 
Lending standards were largely unchanged across all lending categories.  However, New York 
reported slight tightening for commercial and industrial  loans.  Moreover, a few reports highlighted that 
small businesses continued to struggle with credit acc ess through banks.  In the Atlanta District, some 
small businesses have turned to nonba nk institutions for financing, and in the Chicago District some 
manufacturers have been financing loans to their suppliers from retained earnings.  Credit quality 
improved in many Districts:  New York reported a d ecline in delinquency rates for all loan categories, 
while Philadelphia, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco all repor ted general improvement 
in loan quality. 
 
Agriculture and Natural Resources  Demand for agricultural products was strong duri ng the reporting period, but growing conditions 
and input prices were mixed.  Farm income and profits were reported to be at very  high levels by Chicago 
and Kansas City, enabling many farmers to repay lo ans and expand their opera tions, and San Francisco 
reported further sales growth for a variety of agri cultural products.  Rising foreign demand was noted as a 
source of strength for livestock sales in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts and for dairy and meat products in 
the Chicago District.  Growing conditions were so mewhat mixed across areas.  Farmers and livestock 
producers in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts have be en struggling with ongoing droughts, which have 
required costly responses such as supplemental feedin g of livestock.  While timely rains eased drought 
conditions somewhat in the Dallas and Kansas City Dist ricts, wheat farmers in the latter are hoping for 
more protective snow cover for the winter crop’s dorma ncy period.  In addition, high or rising prices for 
some inputs were noted by Chicago and Kansas City, tempering farmers’ profit expectations for the 
coming year.  Demand and extraction activity rose further for pr oducers of natural resource products.  Energy 
extraction has been on the upswing.  Atlanta repor ted that companies have been expanding their 
workforces and increasing their production capacity a nd exploration plans in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Minneapolis and Kansas City reported that oil and g as exploration and extraction activity were well above 
their levels from twelve months earlier, and Dallas not ed that a high level of activity is expected to 
resume in early 2012 following a year-end seasonal lull.  Minneapolis and San Francisco reported 
expansion of mining capacity and activity for a range of industrial and precious metals. 
  
vi 
 Prices and Wages 
 Upward price pressures and price increases were very limited during the reporting period.   
Reports from various Districts, including Boston, A tlanta, and Chicago, indicated that upward price 
pressures from rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially, with Boston noting that “even 
food prices have ceased rising.”  Atlanta reported that firms have limited prici ng power in general, and 
San Francisco pointed to intense supplier competition as a factor holding down prices.  Similarly, Kansas 
City reported a recent uptick in input prices but noted  that few manufacturers passed these increases on to 
the prices of their finished goods. 
 Wage pressures remained modest overall.  The combination of limited permanent hiring in most sectors and numerous active job seekers has continued to keep a lid on general wage increases.  However, 
reports from a few Districts highlighted significan t supply constraints and in some cases large 
compensation increases for workers with  specialized skills in selected sect ors, including the energy sector 
in the Dallas District and the technology sector in the San Francisco District.  On a related note, 
Minneapolis reported that employers have increased re location pay for employees willing to settle in parts 
of that District where worker availability is limited .  Increases in the costs of employee health benefits 
continued to put significant upward pressure on overall compensation costs, although some employers in 
the Philadelphia District reported signi ficant rollbacks from past increases.  
 
 
 I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Most business contacts in the First District report modest revenue growth from a year earlier. 
Retailers are somewhat more positive than in preced ing months, with 2011 sales projected to come in 
higher than 2010. Manufacturers’ reports are similar to  the last round; most firms cite somewhat slower 
sales growth than earlier in the year, while a couple of semiconductor-related firm s saw sales fall off (they 
believe temporarily). Commercial and residential real estate markets remain weak, but are not expected to 
deteriorate further. Advertising and consulting firms, by contrast, say business improved noticeably 
between the third and the fourth quarters, bringing a strong 2011 to a close. Some firms are hiring, but 
modestly; wage increases, if occurring, remain modera te. Price pressures continue to ease. Most contacts 
expect a continuation of current modest growth tr ends, notwithstanding uncertainties related to Europe 
and U.S. budget deliberations.  
Retail and Tourism 
As in mid-November, retail contacts for this round report a slight improvement in business 
conditions from earlier in the year. Comparable-store sal es in the fourth quarter for most contacts range 
from flat to up 2 percent from a year earlier; one reta iler saw a drop in in-store foot traffic for December 
but a tripling in Internet sales. One is projecting annual sales for 2011 will be down about 5 percent, but 
this represents an improvement compared with sales d eclines of 10 percent in the first half of the year. 
Contacts with a web-based presence report sales strength in this area, and some are adding staff and making investments to better service customers buying online. Planned salary increases for 2012 range from 2 percent to 3 percent for merit- related raises; none of th e retail contacts is planning to offer a cost-
of-living adjustment. 
The travel and tourism sector continues to project  a 5 percent to 8 percent increase for 2011 over 
2010. Data from the first week of December show  strong performance. The industry foresees a robust 
2012, taking heart from Q1 projections based on adva nce bookings. Preliminary predictions are that 2012 
hotel revenue per available room will increase 10 per cent to 12 percent over 2011. Restaurant sales, while 
much harder to project, are estimated to grow 3 pe rcent in 2012 over 2011, an improvement over the 1.5 
percent estimated for 2011 over 2010. 
Manufacturing and Related Services 
Not much has changed since our last manufacturing report in mid-November. Most contacts 
report growing sales and some are hiring, albeit in  small numbers. Two contacts in the semiconductor 
industry report a substantial weakening of business in  the summer and fall but both seem optimistic that 
the decline is transitory. Over all, the mood remains cautious. 
Of the 13 manufacturing contacts in this cycle, nine report higher sales, two cite flat sales and two 
declining sales. The two firms with falls in sal es are in the semiconductor business and both depend 
heavily on Asia for demand. Of these two, a manufac turer of analog semiconductors says orders peaked 
in the June quarter and bottomed out in September; si nce sales follow orders with a lag, sales declined in 
the fourth quarter, ending an 11-quarter streak of quarter-on-quarter sales growth. The two contacts differ 
on the source of the problem, with one attributing it to China-specific issues and the other arguing that the 
underlying causes are broad-based.  
 
 I - 2 
For contacts reporting higher sales, growth recently  is moderate compared to the rapid growth 
they experienced in the last few years. One firm said that while sales were likely to be up about 15 
percent for the year, the fourth quarter would clock in at only about 5 percent. Europe is cited as a 
problem, although two contacts say that they have ye t to see evidence of a recession in northern Europe. 
One contact at a medical equipment supplier says that debt problems in Europe do not appear to have affected the health care sector; another contact at a large diversified manufacturing firm argues that there 
is an incipient credit crunch in Europe.  
On pricing, the complaints about escalating input prices have more or less stopped; contacts say 
even food prices have ceased rising. A year ago, virtually every contact talked about high commodity 
prices and, in some cases, shortages, but now the only comments relate to limited pricing pressure.  
Five contacts report that they are hiring, eight report flat to maybe a small decline and none 
reports any significant staff reducti ons. Several contacts mention that they are having trouble finding 
qualified staff, but some have come up with more creative ways to bring in the right people. Firms 
continue to devote resources to capital expenditures. N one reports any problems raising money to pay for 
needed investment and, in fact, many are able to  finance all capital spending with retained earnings. 
The outlook remains guarded; general concerns about “macroeconomic uncertainty” remain. The 
two firms reporting lower sales are fairly optimistic th at the dip is transitory. In general, firms with 
greater exposure to Europe are more concerned than firms focused on the domestic market.  
Selected Business Services  
Consulting and advertising contacts in the First Dist rict report strong growth in the fourth quarter 
after a generally weaker third quarter. Marketing a nd advertising contacts indicate that 2011 growth has 
averaged 8 percent to 9 percent (annual rate), driven  largely by an increase in large orders from large 
clients. Strategy and business consulting contacts re port low double-digit annualized growth, driven by 
strong private equity business, mergers and acquisitio ns, and corporate consulting. Contacts note that 
many clients have a lot of cash and are becoming more  confident that – despite risks – the U.S. economy 
will “muddle through” and thus are w illing to spend. In addition, consulting firms have seen a shift in 
demand towards services that can be directly tied to the bottom line such as sales  and process efficiency 
rather than strategy and management.  
The majority of consulting and advertising contacts reports minimal increases in the prices they 
charge, held down by both competitive pressures and modest cost increases. Compensation increases are 
generally in the mid single digits and contacts report steady or growing profit margins. By exception, two contacts raised prices by 5 percent to 10 per cent because of strong demand for their services.  
Hiring activity continues to be mixed. Two c onsulting contacts report strong 2011 employment 
growth, while three firms kept employment flat a nd one continued a year-long downsizing process. The 
two firms reporting job growth expect hiring to remain strong (about 10 percent) in 2012, while a 
marketing firm plans to increase employment modestly, and the other firms expect flat 2012 employment. Firms that increased employment did so to keep up with a growing workload, while firms downsizing in 
the third or fourth quarter emphasized cost controls. 
All respondents are more optimistic now than when  contacted in the third quarter, with the 
 
 I - 3 
exception of one firm that has done exceptionally well a ll year. The improved outlook is mostly due to the 
strong fourth quarter indicating that the third quarter was only a temporary rough patch. 
Commercial Real Estate 
Commercial leasing activity across the First District was flat to down in recent weeks, in line with 
typical seasonal patterns. In Hartford, leasing activity saw a modest seasonal slowdown in December and business sentiment held steady. Activity slowed modestly  in Providence as well, al so in line with year-
end expectations, but deals in the works as of the pr evious report moved forward as expected and pending 
deals are set to boost absorption of Class A office space in the first quarter of 2012. Greater Portland also 
registered a modest seasonal leasing slowdown in Dece mber, but saw a decline in the office vacancy rate 
on a year-over-year basis, to 10.8 percent from 11.2 pe rcent. Boston’s leasing market held roughly steady, 
with modest positive absorption in suburban corridor s as well as in the sought-after neighborhoods of 
Back Bay and East Cambridge. Rents remain flat fo r downtown office space on lower floors of buildings 
but are rising for upper-floor space in prime high-rise structures. Despite positive absorption in 2011, one 
contact says Boston’s downtown office vacancy rate remains undesirably high at about 16 percent.  
Construction activity remains limited across the region, with the ongoing exception of 
multifamily construction in greater Boston. The lack of  speculative office construction is attributed to the 
fact that building costs continue to exceed expected rents. The investment sales market remains active in 
Boston as prices signal an ongoing willingness of buye rs to accept low rates of return for prime 
properties. A Portland contact predicts an increase in sales activity in that market in the coming months as 
borrowers seek to take advantage of ve ry low mortgage interest rates.  
The outlook among contacts is unchanged since the l ast report, with forecasts calling for modest 
improvements in office fundamentals in 2012, roughl y on par with the experience of 2011. While some 
see upside potential in office rents, downside risks are also noted, such as possible closures in the retail 
sector and ongoing political gridlock.  
Residential Real Estate 
Sales figures in the New England single-family home and condominium market increased in 
November compared to a year ago, with the grow th largely reflecting lackluster year-earlier sales 
numbers following the expiration of the tax credit in mid-2010. Contacts reiterated concerns about weak 
demand, citing poor labor market conditions and st ricter lending requirements. A contact from Greater 
Boston contrasts the local market with the rest of th e New England region, saying that the Greater Boston 
area showed possible signs of improvement due to strengthening employment conditions in the city. 
Meanwhile, throughout New England, the median sale price of homes and condos fell in November 
compared to a year ago; contacts attribute the declines  to a rise in sales of distressed properties. The price 
decreases were uneven across the region, with Maine slipping by less than 1 percent and Connecticut 
prices falling by over 10 percent. The median pri ce of condos fell more sharply than home prices. 
The outlook remains largely the same as in prev ious reports. Contacts expect sales activity to 
remain slow in the coming months, but believe prices will stabilize in the region. They do not expect further weakening in the market but also do not anticipate significant recovery in the near term. 
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has grown at a somewhat faster pace since the last report, led 
by brisk holiday-season spending.  Labor market conditions, as well as prices, have remained generally stable.  Manufacturers report modestly  improved general business conditions and steady 
employment since the last report, along with increased optimism about the near-term outlook.  
Retailers generally characterize holiday season spending as robust, particularly in the final days 
before Christmas and right after.  Auto dealers report that sales have remained strong since the last report.  Tourism activity has held steady at a high le vel.  Conditions have generally remained stable 
in the housing market, though the rental market has continued to improve.  Commercial real estate 
markets have been stable to moderately stronger in late 2011.  Finally, bankers report increased loan 
demand, steady to somewhat tighter credit standards, and lower delinquency rates across the board.  
Consumer Spending  
Retailers generally characterize holiday-season spending as strong and most report that sales 
were on or above plan.  A trade association survey of retailers across New York State points to robust spending, particularly in the final week before Christmas and on the day after; most contacts 
indicated that sales were at least as strong as in 2010, led by electronics—particularly video games 
and consoles.  One large retail chain reports that  November-December sales were above plan and up 
moderately from a year earlier, while another major chain indicates that sales were down from 2010 levels but still roughly on plan.  Both contacts note that unseasonably mild weather hampered sales of outerwear and other seasonal apparel.  However, two major malls in upstate New York say that 
mild weather—along with brisk demand from Canadian shoppers—contributed to strong sales in 
November and early December.  A number of contacts also note exceptional strength in on-line sales, with some reporting year-over-year gains in excess of 40 percent.  Retail prices are reported to be generally stable.    
 
 II-2 
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales activity continued to be robust in 
November and early December, running well ahead of comparable 2010 levels—particularly for used vehicles.  Inventories have risen along with sale s but remain tight for some of the more popular 
models.  Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain favorable. 
Consumer confidence has rebounded from its October lows.  The Conference Board’s survey 
of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA) shows consumer confidence rising sharply in 
both November and December, back up to the levels seen last spring.  Results from Siena College’s November survey of New York State residents (latest available) shows consumer confidence rebounding moderately.  Tourism activity has held generally steady at a strong level since the last report.  New York City hotels report that occupancy rates continued to run at just over 85 percent in 
November and the first few weeks of December—up moderately from a year earlier.  Room rates 
were up 2-3 percent from a year earlier, and total revenues per room were up about 6 percent, though total revenues in the local hospitality industry are up  considerably more due to an increased number 
of hotel rooms.  On a more negative note, though, Broadway theaters report that attendance continued to run roughly 5 percent below year-ago levels in December, while revenues fell below 
comparable 2010 levels for the first time since the August hurricane.      
Construction and Real Estate 
Residential rental markets continue to strengthe n, while real estate sales have shown little 
change since the last report and new development activity continues to be sluggish.  New York City’s rental market remains tight: rents continue to rise, as the inventory of available units remains lean.  
Manhattan co-op and condo prices were little changed in the fourth quarter, while sales activity 
slowed from its fairly brisk third quarter pace.  Market conditions were reported to be similar in 
Brooklyn but a bit softer in the other boroughs and on Long Island.  On a more positive note, one industry expert in New Jersey sees improved fundamentals in the housing market and foresees a 
 
 II-3 
pickup in market conditions in 2012. Real estate contact s in other parts of the District also note some 
increase in optimism among developers.   
Commercial real estate markets have been steady to somewhat stronger since the last report.  
New York City’s office market has picked up in  late 2011, with office vacancy rates edging down 
and asking rents rising.  There were also modest si gns of improvement in Westchester and Fairfield 
counties and in the Albany area, whereas office markets in northern New Jersey and western New 
York State appear to have slackened modestly. Industrial leasing markets were generally steady overall: conditions firmed in Long Island but showed some signs of softening across upstate New York; in the rest of the District, conditions were little changed.    
Other Business Activity 
A major New York City employment agency reports that hiring activity has slowed 
somewhat since October, particularly in the financia l services sector, but notes that it is difficult to 
gauge the underlying climate during this typically slow season.  Contacts at major retail chains indicated that they hired more seasonal workers this year than last.  More broadly, both manufacturers and service-sector firms continue to report that employment levels at their firms 
remain steady, on average, though a growing number of manufacturing contacts across New York 
State plan to hire more workers in the months ahead.    
Manufacturers across New York State report that general business conditions improved since 
the last report, and respondents have grown considerably more optimistic about the near-term outlook.  Both manufacturers and other firms report that their selling prices remain flat, though a 
growing number expect to raise prices in the m onths ahead. Separately, a contact in the trucking 
industry reports that shipping tonna ge (volume) has picked up considerably in recent months and was 
up 6 percent from a year earlier in November.   
Financial Developments  
Bankers report an increase in demand for all loan categories except consumer loans, where 
 
 II-4 
demand held steady. The increase was most prevalent for commercial mortgages where four times as 
many bankers reported rising than falling demand.  Respondents also indicate widespread increases in demand for refinancing.  Bankers’ responses suggest some tightening of credit standards for commercial and industrial loans, but no change for the other loan categories.  No banker reported an easing of standards in any category.  Respondents note a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs 
of funds for all loan categories.  Bankers also in dicate widespread decreases in the average deposit 
rate.  Delinquency rates are reported to have decreased for all loan categories.   The improvement was most prevalent in commercial and industrial loans, where nearly three times as many respondents reported lower than higher delinquencies. 
III - 1 
  
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Overall business activity in the Third District  has continued to grow  modestly since the 
previous Beige Book, with various sectors expe riencing typical seasonal patterns – positive and 
negative. Since the last Beige Book, manufacturing activity has cont inued to grow modestly with 
some signs of a seasonal slow down. Retail sales overall genera lly increased for the holiday 
season, meeting seasonal expectations. Motor vehi cle dealers experienced further strong sales 
growth and strong pricin g power, overcoming some of the typi cal seasonal drag. Third District 
banks have reported slight growth in loan vol ume outstanding since the last Beige Book. New 
home construction slowed further, driven by s easonal trends and falling prices for existing 
homes.  Commercial real estate contacts cont inued to report slow growth year-over-year, 
although anticipated seasona l slowing has been a factor since the last Beige Book. Service-sector 
firms reported generally modest growth. Price pressures remained  contained for most sectors, 
with little change from  the last Beige Book.  
The general outlook seems to have improved fo r most firms since the last Beige Book. 
Manufacturers anticipate rising shipments and orders during the next six months. Retailers 
expect slightly stronger sales, and auto dealer s are increasingly confident that pent-up demand 
will carry well into the spring se lling season. Banking, real estate, and service-sector firms 
continue to plan for slow growth in 2012. Many ha ve voiced concerns over  the ongoing lack of a 
housing recovery, the threat fr om Europe’s economic woes, and the indecision on numerous 
federal budget issues.  
 
Manufacturing.   Since the last Beige Book, Third Di strict manufacturers have reported 
further modest increases in new orders and ship ments. Gains were widespread among the makers 
of industrial machinery and equipment, and of food products. Similarly, a supplier to the broad 
industrial market confirmed con tinued growth but noted some softness of a seasonal nature. 
Some makers of lumber and wood products a nd of electrical machinery reported seasonal 
slowing. However, one electrical equipment firm l ogged the worst month of orders in five years. 
Several contacts attributed additi onal slowing to end-of-year invent ory adjustments. Contacts in 
primary metals reported mixed results depende nt upon their firm’s market orientation, for 
example, to Europe or to the domestic auto industry.  
Most Third District manufactur ers remain split between expe cting business conditions to 
improve during the next six months and expectin g conditions to stay the same. This overall 
III - 2 
 positive tendency has pervaded more sectors sin ce the last Beige Book. However, the currently 
low seasonal demand, cited by many firms, may be a large factor in the an ticipation of near-term 
gains. Manufacturing contacts cont inued to cite weak housing mark ets as a drag, Europe’s woes 
as a threat, and rising auto demand as a positiv e factor. Expectations of capital spending and 
future hiring also remain positive but have moderated since the last Beige Book.   
Retail.   Third District retailers reported strong holiday sales in November and positive, 
but softer, sales in December. An outlet opera tor recounted that the typical budget-conscious, 
discount-driven consumer shopped early, then fa ded somewhat. The longer shopping season and 
added store hours produced greater overall sales volumes but also increased the wage bill for 
hourly workers. Profits for the season were maintained by closely watching inventories and 
markdown levels. Unseasonably warm weather damp ened sales of cold-weather goods, but “rain 
boots sold well.” Prospects beyond this holiday season are expected to follow  recent trends with 
high-end, online, and outlet market segments  attracting the most consumer spending.  
Auto sales remained unseasonably strong thr ough November and December, according to 
a Third District industry contact. With still a little more demand th an supply, dealers continue to 
offer less discounting and earn better grosses. Al so, pent-up demand remains strong. An industry 
contact indicated that dealers ma y begin hiring if robust sales c ontinue into the spring season.  
 
Finance.   Overall loan volumes continued to expa nd slightly in the Third District since 
the previous Beige Book; however, many bankers reported difficulty maintaining loan volumes. 
Some reported turning down deposits for lack of sufficient lending opport unities. The strongest 
loan growth continued to emerge  in home mortgages, including refinancings. Commercial real 
estate and C&I lending were flat. Credit quality continued to improve so mewhat. Third District 
bankers expressed several concerns , including Europe’s economic problems, a lack of recovery 
in the housing market, uncertainty and a lack of confidence with Wash ington, and uncertainty 
over the renewal of federal contracts.   
Real Estate and Construction.   Residential builders are “glad to have 2011 behind” 
them. Builders reported that the year closed wi th sales activity slowing somewhat more than 
seasonal trends would predict due to  lack of confidence, as existing home prices continued to fall 
in most markets. Some of the activity reported in the last Beig e Book dissipated, as builders were 
unable to close on contracts. New construction activity continues to shift from the single-family 
market toward the multifamily market. Some builders are planning for growth in 2012, even 
III - 3 
 some hiring. However, their plans assume an incr ease in market share and an expectation that 
some competitors will not endure a seventh c onsecutive year with little or no growth. 
During a seasonally slow period for most nonresid ential real estate ac tivity, contacts have 
reported no significant changes since the last Beige Book. The seasonal lull should generate a 
little pickup in leasing in early 2012. The s udden announcement in early December of an 
immediate refinery closing, not anticipated until early 2012, sent hundr eds of workers home, 
including construction workers with  jobs associated with facility  maintenance and repair. A few 
weeks later another refinery, currently in the pr ocess of restarting, annou nced expansion plans. 
New construction and renovation plans remain mos tly limited to institutional, life sciences, 
multifamily, and warehousing sectors in select markets. A portion of the new construction, 
especially for warehousing, repres ents market shifts among regi ons, rather than net overall 
market growth. The overall outlook for demand of nonresidential space  is for continued slow 
growth.  
 
Services.   Third District service-sector firms have continued to report modest growth 
since the last Beige Book. A staffing firm noted that firms appear busier, based upon an end-of-
year uptick in short-term contra cts to provide coverage for vaca tions and extra holiday business – 
a pattern not observed since the r ecession began. The overall trend toward temporary or contract 
basis for new placements, rather than permanent,  full-time hires, remains unchanged. Contacts 
indicated that financial services will face challenges in 2012, and many sources expressed 
concern for defense-related activity in th e wake of recent and ongoing federal budget 
indecisions. The majority of service-sector fi rms anticipate slowly im proving growth rates 
through 2012.  
 
Prices and Wages.   On balance, price levels have ch anged little since the previous Beige 
Book. Auto dealers and freight shippers stil l command favorable pricing power. Several 
manufacturing firms recently raised prices and have yet to observe any pushback from their 
customers. Retailers and homebuilders continue  to report very tight margins. Builders are 
worried about ongoing closures along their s upply chain as the rece ssion in construction 
continues. Substantial cost increases are antic ipated when a recovery emerges and triggers 
demand for more building materials. Although ex ceptions exist within specific submarkets, 
concessions are still expected of  many bankers, builders, and leasing agents. Most firms reported 
no significant upward wage pressure. While most  firms are anticipating greater increases in 
health benefit costs, a few have indicated a signifi cant rollback from last year’s large rate hike. 
IV - 1 
 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
The economy in the Fourth District grew at  a slow pace during the past six weeks.  
Manufacturers reported that ne w orders and production were stable.  Single-family home 
construction improved slightly, while nonresidenti al builders saw a drop-off in inquiries and 
weak backlogs.  November retail and motor ve hicle sales were little changed from the prior 
month.  Activity in shale gas drilling and produc tion expanded.  Freight transport volume slowed 
along seasonal trends.  The demand  for credit by businesses and households was characterized as 
either steady or increasing slightly. 
Labor market reports indicated that hiring remains at a low level, while recruiting high-
skilled workers was difficult.  Staffing-firm repr esentatives saw growth in the number of new job 
openings, with vacancies concentrated in healthca re and energy.  Wage pressures were largely 
contained.  Other than a boost in st eel prices, upward pressure on ra w material prices has abated.  
Manufacturing.  New orders and production at District factories were mainly stable 
during the past six weeks.  Any declines were a ttributed to seasonal fact ors or lessening demand 
from European and Chinese customers.  Compar ed to year-ago levels, the majority of our 
contacts noted a moderate improvement in output .  However, they are cautious in their outlook 
and expect little change in demand during th e upcoming months.  Mo st steel producers and 
service centers reported  that shipping volume was steady al ong seasonal trends , although two of 
our contacts noted an unexpected pickup for this time of year.  Demand is being driven by autos, 
energy, and heavy equipment industries.  Steel re presentatives are hopeful about the first quarter 
of 2012, and most expect to see at least modest growth.   District auto production showed a 
substantial decline during N ovember on a month-over-month basis, more so for foreign 
nameplates.  Most of the decline was attributed to supply chain i ssues.  Year-over-year, domestic 
auto producers’ output rose significantly, wh ile their foreign counterparts posted moderate 
declines.    
Capacity utilization was below normal at most  factories, while stee l producers saw their 
utilization rates at or near normal levels.  Inventories were in line with sales for the majority of our contacts.  Manufacturers told us  that their capital outlays have reached targeted levels for the 
year.  Only a few respondents indi cated that they expect to si gnificantly raise their capital 
budgets for 2012.  Other than steel, raw material prices were stea dy during the past few weeks.  
We heard several reports about st eel producers raising th eir prices and the po ssibility of a second 
round of increases early in 2012.  New hiring remained  at a low level.  Those adding to payrolls 
found it difficult to recruit professi onal and high-skilled production workers.  Wage pressures are 
contained.     
Construction.  Single-family home construction was de scribed as better  during the past 
couple of months, with sales cont racts distributed acro ss all price-point categories.  Builders 
IV - 2 
 were slightly more optimistic in their outlook, but they are not expecting an industry turnaround 
in the near term.  We heard a report that homebuild ers’ inventories are on a decline in some parts 
of the District, which should help boost new- home construction during 2012.  Not much change 
was seen in the list prices of new homes, t hough two of our contacts noted a greater use of 
discounting.  A few subcontractors attempted to raise billing rates, but they were unsuccessful.  
Employment and wages were stable.     
Activity in nonresidential construction fo r small to medium-size builders was steady, 
although the number of inquiries  has fallen off during the past few weeks.  The biggest 
challenges facing nonresidential contractors conti nue to be financing projects and adding to 
backlog.  Construction contracts were primarily with manufacturers and health-care providers.  
Builders are uncertain about future prospects.  One contractor noted that  he does not expect a 
major pick-up through at least the first half of 2012.  On balance, building material prices were 
stable.  The number of reports about sub contra ctors going out of businesses rose, while general 
contracting payrolls show ed a slight decline.    
Consumer Spending.  Retailers reported that November sales were stable or slightly 
higher relative to October sales.  According to a few of our contacts, a milder than expected 
autumn was holding back purchases of cold weathe r-related items, while purchases of electronics 
and home furnishings were better than expected.  On a year-over-year basis, results were mixed.  
Sales for the first quarter of 2012 are generally expected to improve over prior-year levels, 
mainly in the low- to mid-single digits.  So me retailers expressed caution about 2012 given the 
fragility of household balance sheets.  Upward pressure on supplier cost s has abated during the 
past six weeks.  Inventories were characterized as good excep t for apparel items, which are 
higher than desired.  Capital budgets were on plan.  Most of our contacts said that outlays during 
2012 will not change appreciably from this year’s le vels and that outlays will be used mainly for 
technology enhancements and remodeling.  Other than  seasonal hiring, there wa s little change in 
employment at existing stores.    
Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sale s during November remained strong.  On a 
year-over-year basis, sales volume was largel y higher.  Dealers saw robust demand for all 
vehicle types.  A few dealers no ted that their inventories are now  adequate.  Others said that 
inventories are low, which they attributed to  brisk sales.  The outlook for 2012 is somewhat 
tentative, mainly because of uncertainty.  Purchase s of used vehicles have fallen off slightly, due 
in part to a supply shortage.  We heard reports about some easing of credit restrictions, while 
interest rates were very competitive.  Dealers are investing in manufacturer-mandated facility 
upgrades and imaging programs.  The few dealers looking to hire reported that it is difficult to 
find qualified candidates, especi ally sales representatives and service technicians.  
IV - 3 
 Banking.  Demand for business loans was characterized  as either stable or increasing.  
Requests are being driven by commercial re al estate, notably multifamily housing, and 
healthcare.  On the consumer side, our contacts de scribed installment loan activity as flat or up a 
bit.  Auto lending (direct and indirect) and hom e equity lines of cred it continued to show 
strength.  Bankers said that th ey have not seen a bump up in the use of credit cards during the 
holiday shopping season.  Interest rates for business and consumer credit were very competitive.  Activity in the residential mortgage market has b een solid in the fourth quarter, driven by low 
interest rates.  Most applicants are looking to  refinance.  No changes were made to loan 
application standards.  Delinquenc ies were steady or declined acr oss most loan categories; any 
stress was found in real estate portfolios and cred it cards.  Overall core deposits grew, although a 
few bankers commented that growth is being dr iven by business customers.  Payrolls were 
stable, with little hiring exp ected in the near term.  
Energy.  Conventional oil and natura l gas production was mainly steady during the past 
few weeks, with little change expected in th e upcoming months.  Our contacts were uncertain 
about future gas drilling due to er oding natural gas prices.  Well-head  prices for oil were flat, but 
remained elevated.  Activity in shale-gas extrac tion expanded.  Coal output was stable, though it 
may decline during 2012 due to an easing in dema nd for thermal and metallurgical coals from 
European customers and domestic power producer s.  The latter was attributed to abundant 
supplies of low-priced natural gas and regulatory compliance issues for coal-fired generators.  
Spot prices for several types of coal have fallen of f.  Capital outlays are on target, with moderate 
increases projected by oil and ga s companies in the upcoming months.  The cost of production 
equipment and materials was gene rally flat during the past six weeks.  Energy payrolls held 
steady.  A few small oil and gas producers are beginning to experience wage pressures brought 
on by competition from large firms engaged in shale gas explorat ion and production.   
Transportation.   Freight transport volume has slowed during the past few weeks, 
following seasonal trends.  Strong demand was s till seen from the energy and manufacturing 
sectors.  Our contacts expect volume to grow at a slow, steady pace during 2012, with predictions in the mid-single di gits.  We heard numerous reports  of rising prices for parts, 
especially tires, and of some vol atility in fuel prices.  Much of the cost increase was recovered 
via fuel surcharges and rate adjustments when contracts came due.  Capital outlays were on plan 
for 2011.  Most of our contacts expect to incr ease their capital budgets during 2012 for fleet 
expansion and to replace aging equipment.  Oper ators reported hiring for driver replacement or 
adding capacity, although recruiting qualified drivers is difficult.  Wage pressures exist due to a 
tightening of the driver pool. 
 V-1  
 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
Overview.  District economic activity generally flatte ned or improved slightly since our last 
report. Manufacturing activity was little changed in late November through mid December, while port 
activity slowed. Retail reports were mixed; notably, several car dealers reported higher sales of used and 
new vehicles. Non-retail services firms also  reported stronger revenues in recent weeks.  In addition, most 
tourism contacts indicated bookings were up. In fina nce, however, loan demand continued to be weak, 
with the exception of commercial loans. Likewise, resi dential real estate activity generally declined. We 
received mixed reports on commercial real estate act ivity.   Manufacturing employment declined 
somewhat, while the average workweek ticked up and wages advanced in line with our last report. 
Retailers reduced their payrolls and wages flattene d, while non-retail services providers added to their 
payrolls and average wages increased in that subsector. 
Manufacturing.  District manufacturing activity remained flat since our last report. Our latest 
survey showed little change in shipments, but a sli ght increase in new orders. A producer of residential 
doors reported that business at his firm remained depressed. Similarly, a furniture manufacturer said that 
demand was generally sluggish across all categories, pa rticularly for residential furniture. In contrast, a 
fabricated metal producer cited an improvement in December’s order volume, which he attributed to 
customers placing orders in advance of higher basic metals prices. That increase in orders allowed his 
company to operate at capacity and avoid employee la yoffs. Moreover, an automobile parts manufacturer 
ordered new manufacturing equipment due to in creased demand and the need to reduce employee 
overtime. According to our survey respondents, both raw materials prices and finished goods prices grew 
at a notably slower pace than a month ago.  
Port activity in the Fifth District slowed in recent weeks, with imports coming in below earlier 
expectations. Several officials reported that imports have turned flat on a year-over-year basis, after 
modest gains during the summer had raised hopes of continued improvements through the remainder of 
the year. One analyst stated that the typical autumn “bump” in retail orders did not occur this year. A 
modest uptick of imports is still expected in January , ahead of Asian plant cl osings for the Chinese New 
Year in February.  In contrast, most port official s expected robust exports, especially for non-container 
goods. A late harvest has led to increases in grain exports, according to one official. Nonetheless, 
shipping rates are low and carriers are losing money,  causing several analysts to expect increased 
pressures among carriers to consolidate. 
Retail. Retail merchants gave mixed sales reports , while wholesalers generally indicated a 
pickup. The manager of a chain discount store in North Carolina described sales as “erratic,” and a 
contact in the Tidewater area noted that sales were unch anged, even with increased foot traffic. Unusually 
warm weather in the District depressed sales of wi nter apparel. Toys and electronics, particularly 
 V-2  
 televisions, moved briskly in recent weeks. A retailer told us that cu stomers have returned as much as a 
third of the items previously placed on lay-away befo re finishing the payments, because,  customers said, 
they “need the money.” Although big-ticket sales were  down slightly, there were reports of improvement. 
Jewelers generally reported robust sales. Although high er prices for gold and precious gems damped sales 
at some stores, other items such as silver remained  in demand. Rising cotton prices continued to push up 
apparel prices. According to several car dealers, strong used-vehicle demand increased trade-in equity. 
Low interest rates and the rising average age of vehi cles on the road also helped move new cars. On the 
whole, retail price increases were smaller since our last report. 
Services.  Revenues at non-retail services firms accelerated in recent weeks.  Hospital and other 
healthcare contacts noted that merger s have increased among smaller hospitals and physician practices, as 
changes in healthcare roll out. Nursing home executiv es also expressed concern about reduced Medicare 
payments and the inability of potential resident-care patients to sell their homes.  Revenues rose more 
quickly at medical records management firms, temp staffing agencies, and telecommunications firms. In 
addition, a pickup in business at engineering firms was noted in recent weeks. An engineering contact in 
West Virginia commented that old projects that “h ave been on the shelf” were proceeding. Prices at 
services firms increased at a somewhat faster pace since our last report.   
Finance. Loan demand in the District continued to be generally weak. A West Virginia banker 
reported that local lending was weak, with no increase  for some time. A South Carolina banker cited a 
decline in the number of outstanding loans. Also, sev eral bank officials around the District noted that, 
except for multi-family building and refinancing, real  estate lending continued to be quite soft. Several 
bank officials attributed weak loan demand to a lack  of confidence on the part of businesses. However, a 
number of commercial developers noted greater difficu lty getting their loans approved. In contrast, an 
analyst for a large bank in the District reported that commercial lending improved slightly over the last few months, led by small business needs for new capital equipment. A lending officer in Richmond also noted improvement in consumer borrowing for autos,  home improvement, and debt consolidation. And 
several small commercial bankers around the District stated that they were picking up loans from 
customers who were dissatisfied with the service they  were getting from large banks. Most bank contacts 
stated that interest rates were little changed, and the quality of loans continued to improve modestly. 
  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity softened  since our last report, although a few 
pockets of strength remained. Seve ral Realtors reported that sales fe ll considerably and housing prices 
had declined from a month ago. Many agents attribut ed the drop in sales prices to short/distressed sales 
being used as comparables. Most Realtors cited sales  in the low-price range as faring better than sales in 
the high-price range. An exception, however, was an agent in the D.C. area who said that sales in the 
$1,500,000 plus range were up 31 percent. Brokers in Richmond and Charlotte noted that the rental 
market was heating up.  A builder in Charleston, S outh Carolina described residential construction as very 
 V-3  
 weak, with a rise in the average number of days on the market for new homes, even as the number of 
homes for sale declined. In central Virginia, a real estate agent indicated most shoppers were serious 
about buying, although foot traffic had slowed down quite a bit in recent months. He added that, while 
closed sales were down, pending sales were up from a year ago.    
We received mixed signals from commercial real es tate and construction markets in the District. 
A contractor in the Baltimore area reported that commercial permits over the last month were up on a year-over-year basis for the first time this year. Seve ral contractors in Virginia and Maryland experienced 
a small pickup in demand and were hoping to increase th eir prices. And, while some architecture firms in 
the D.C. area had more signs of stress, one firm reported its best backlog of orders since the recession. In contrast, another D.C. contractor said that projects in the area were few, and each had many bids that were 
too low for most contractors and their subcontractors to make a profit. A contact in West Virginia noted a dramatic slowdown in local leasing activity. In additi on, a developer in South Carolina stated that office 
and retail space was abundant and no new building was needed except for very specialized structures, 
such as medical facilities. A comme rcial Realtor in South Carolina also noted that, although office 
vacancy rates were high, a significant porti on of those buildings were obsolete.   
Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity ch anged little since our last report. A 
representative at a Charlotte staffing and recruiti ng company for accounting and finance reported an 
increase in corporate hiring. A staffing services contac t from Charleston, South Carolina indicated that 
2011 has been an exceptionally strong year for tem porary placements, but noted the pool of sufficiently 
qualified candidates was relatively small and many app licants were disqualified by drug tests. Several 
contacts cited examples of workers who had d eclined employment opportunities in favor of 
unemployment benefits. Looking ahead, employment agencies expected stronger demand for temporary 
workers during the next six months, along with improving economic activity.  A Maryland contact said 
that he expected employers to utilize temp help to a greater extent than last year, because of economic 
uncertainty. A commercial architect in Charlotte also reported a trend toward the use of contract labor 
instead of hiring full time employees. A source from a management consulting group in Maryland stated 
that businesses believe that regulation and tax increase s are impeding full-time hiring. According to our 
latest survey, hiring at non-retail service firms picked up briskly in December and average wages 
strengthened. In contrast,  retailers cut jobs and average retail wages flattened.  Manufacturing 
employment edged lower over the last month, while the average workweek held  steady; wages increased 
on pace with a month ago.  
Tourism. A majority of hotel and resort contacts indicated bookings have been solid since our 
last report. The manager of a western Virginia hot el and resort described a very busy Thanksgiving 
weekend. He remarked that they were booked fu ll through the Christmas weekend, even though the 
unseasonably warm weather limited the number of open ski slopes. A contact on the North Carolina Outer 
 V-4  
 Banks cited good autumn and early winter tourist activit y, and added that bookings were equal to or better 
than a year ago. Owners of vacation rental propert y there expected a surge in reservations by early 
January, when people typically act on decisions made  during the winter holidays. A hotel manager in 
central Virginia also reported increased bookings, an d a contact at a North Carolina amusement and 
recreation venue noted a pick-up in revenues. In cont rast,  a hotelier in the Piedmont region of South 
Carolina indicated bookings have been flat. In addition,  hotel contacts on the Virginia coast reported that 
bookings have not increased as expected, owing to th e difficult economy and cuts in federal government 
spending on travel. One hotel representative noted that government employees are now sharing rooms 
rather than booking individually . Rates were generally unchanged.
VI-1 
 
 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Sixth District business contacts described ec onomic activity as expanding at a modest pace 
from late November through December. Reports from most  sectors were positive, yet expectations remained 
guarded. Holiday sales were described by most retailers as generally positive and the pace of sales was stronger than last year by most accounts. Auto sales remained strong as well.  Tourism-related spending was solid as 
international visitors continue d to bolster activity. Weakness persisted in th e residential real esta te sector as both 
brokers and homebuilders continued to report downwar d pressure on prices for new and existing homes. 
Commercial contractors noted a slig ht improvement in demand compared with earlier in the year. Most 
manufacturers and transportation contacts noted positive activity, especially related to exports. Bankers noted 
that deposit growth continued to outpace loan dema nd. Employment growth was positive but tepid across the 
District as employers remained cautious with regard to hiring.  Concerns over increased input costs eased 
further as most commodity prices leveled off and busin ess’ inflation expectations remained in check.  Few 
contacts reported having  significant pricing power. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  District retail contacts noted that sales and traffic in late 
November and December were up from a year ago. Post-T hanksgiving reports were generally positive; nearly 
sixty percent of contacts polled indicated that sales were better than the same  time period last year. Almost half 
of contacts reported that invent ory levels were up slightly compared to last month, but most were satisfied that 
current levels were appropriate. High- end and outlet stores were specificall y identified as doing well and were 
posting improved profits.  Most merchants polled expect overall sales to improve ove r the next three months. 
Auto dealers indicated that sales continued to be str ong because of pent-up demand and are better positioned to 
obtain financing; the pace of sales during early November and December was reportedly the strongest in over 
two years.  
Hospitality contacts reported that  holiday activity slightly exceeded cautiously optimistic projections.  
Occupancy and room rates were up th roughout the District.  S outh Florida in particul ar experienced greater 
travel activity from Canada and Sout h America. Airport traffic remained above year-ago levels in most major 
District cities with international trav elers helping boost overall arrivals in many Florida destinations. Cruise line 
reservations remained solid into the first quarter of 2012 as international passengers took advantage of deals.  
Business travel improved over year-ago levels, although reservat ions were being made clos er to departure dates.  
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential brokers indicated that sales continued to soften in late 
November and December but remained ahead of last y ear’s weak levels.  However, sales growth varied 
somewhat across the region.  Florida br okers reported that sales growth, measured year-over-year, rebounded in 
November after moderating slightly in the previous two months. These sales continued to be driven by 
international and cash sales.  Elsewhere in the District, most brokers reported that sales were similar to weak 
VI-2 
 
 levels seen a year ago.  Many contacts  noted that appraisals remained pr oblematic.  Inventories declined on a 
year-over-year basis.  Brokers cont inued to report downward pressure on home prices across most of the 
District.  Many anticipate modest sales growth over the ne xt several months with the most positive expectations 
coming from Florida brokers.   
Reports from District homebuilder s indicated that new home sales and construction activity growth, 
measured year-over-year, were flat to slightly up.  Builders also continued to report downward pressure on 
home prices with most reporting that prices were flat or down on a year-ove r-year basis, in spite of inventories 
that remained below year-earlier le vels.  Builders indicated a strong pick up in buyer traffic compared with the 
same time period as last year.  Homebuilders anticipat e new home sales and construction to improve modestly 
in the coming year.   
The majority of District commercial real estate contacts continued to repo rt improving demand from 
earlier in the year.  Brokers indicated modest improve ments in demand for space with some noting that rent 
concessions had abated.  Contractors continued to report improvements in c onstruction activity from earlier in 
the year.  However, financing remained challenging and most projects were build-to-suit.  The outlook among 
contacts improved modestly from early November with most contractors and commer cial real estate brokers 
anticipating that construction activity will improve slowly during 2012.     
Manufacturing and Transportation. On balance, District manufact uring contacts showed notable 
improvements in both levels of new orders and producti on in November after repo rting several months of 
decelerating activity. In addition, more  contacts reported improving expectati ons for future production than in 
previous reports.  Export manufactur ers and auto producers, in partic ular, reported strong activity. Auto 
producers noted that recent flooding in  Thailand would likely have a mode st, negative impact on production of 
some models as several plants in th at region were damaged or forced to curtail operations for several weeks.  
Reports from transportation industry contacts remain ed positive in late Novemb er and December. Port 
authorities cited volume  increases over last year w ith notable strength in exports .  Trucking firms continued to 
report increased demand for their services but were struggl ing to meet customer needs because of a significant 
shortage of long-haul drivers.  
Banking and Finance.  Liquidity levels at depository inst itutions remained high as many banks 
reported strong deposit growth coupled with continued w eak loan demand. Some ba nking contacts noted that 
they cut loan prices to attract new cu stomers and offered loan concessions pr oactively to retain existing clients. 
There was also little demand for new housing loans, a lthough bankers reported mortgage refinancing and 
automobile loan activity increased. In terms of comme rcial lending, loan growth among community banks and 
credit unions was primarily limited to owner-occupied ente rprises, while some larger  banks reported growth in 
areas such as energy and healthcare.  
VI-3 
 
 Availability of credit/capital wa s not an issue for most large firms because of positive cash flow, 
adequate cash reserves, or a str ong, long-standing relationship with th eir bank. Small business contacts, 
however, continued to report difficulty  in obtaining credit from banks and some have turned to non-bank 
institutions for financing.   
Employment and Prices. Contacts across most sectors continued to  report modest hiring activity across 
much of the District. Most of th e hiring has been temporary in natu re and tied to seasonal employment. 
However, there were some scattered reports among hea lthcare and hospitality contac ts in South Florida that 
hiring was occurring as a result of increased demand or expansion. Agriculture contac ts reported labor shortages 
across Alabama, citing newly enacted immigration legisl ation as the culprit. Firms also noted reluctance 
towards adding new full-time employees because of uncer tainty surrounding healthcare reform, a large pool of 
both over and under qualified applicants, and because produc tivity enhancements have made several positions 
redundant.  
Contacts were generally not as con cerned with input costs as they ha d been in previous months, noting 
that commodity prices had leveled off or eased somewh at. Notable exceptions includ ed reports of restaurants 
facing elevated food costs and ongoing price pressures from high transportation and shipping costs. Many 
businesses reported slightly improved margins in late N ovember and December. Howeve r, with the exception of 
high-end apparel retailers and hospi tality contacts, firms reported having little pricing power.   
In the Atlanta Fed’s monthly busines s inflation survey of firms in th e Sixth Federal Reserve District, 
respondents indicated in December that  their inflation expectations for the coming year are 1.9 percent, down 
slightly from November. Looking forward, businesses indica ted that costs for materials and labor may influence 
them to raise prices. Respondents did not  expect changes in productivity, sales,  or margin adjustments to have a 
significant influence on pri ces over the coming year. 
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Energy industry contacts indicated that they continued to add to 
their workforces and that plans to  invest in increased production cap acity were proceeding. Permitting for 
shallow water rigs in the Gulf of Me xico picked up slightly. The first le ase auction for deepwater exploration 
since last year’s Gulf oil spill occurred in D ecember with 191 tracks being sold for $337.7 million.  
While much of the District witnessed various degr ees of drought ranging from "abnormally dry" to 
"exceptional" in late November and December, both Georgia and Louisiana experienced the most severe 
conditions.  Demand for cotton was flat as a result of global economic con cerns and competition from synthetic 
fibers.   Prices for cattle and hogs continued to incr ease because of strong foreign demand.  Several regional 
agritourism contacts noted pl ans to expand next year.   
 
 VII-1 
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  The rate of growth of economic activity in  the Seventh District picked up in late 
November and December. Contacts were genera lly optimistic about the economic outlook for 2012, 
but many also expressed concern about potential weakness in demand from abroad, particularly 
from China and Europe. Consumer spending increased, while business spending was steady. 
Manufacturing production increase d. Construction was again subdue d, although conditions in real 
estate markets improved slightly. Overall, credit conditions were little changed from the last 
reporting period. Wholesale price in creases slowed, but there was some further pass-through to the 
retail level. Corn, soybean, and cattle prices increased, while m ilk and hog prices decreased. 
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending continued to increase in late November and 
December. Compared to last year’s holiday s eason, store traffic volumes were up significantly 
while nominal spending was up only moderately as consumers reportedly were making more 
shopping trips and aggressively bargain hunting to obtain the lowest prices . Several contacts noted 
an increase this year in online shopping and a grea ter prevalence of flexible and low-cost shipping 
options. Traditional holiday retail items such as  electronics, sporting goods, hobby items, music, 
books, toys, and apparel all sold well. Contacts a dditionally reported more spending on luxury items 
this year. Auto sales increased since the last re porting period. Dealers re ported that showroom 
traffic volumes were up, and many expected sale s to continue to improve further in 2012. 
Importantly, contacts cited a continued boost from replacement demand in light of the record high 
average age of vehicles in the U.S. 
Business spending.  Business spending was steady in late November and December. 
Contacts reported that inventor y levels were generally in-lin e with sales, although inventory 
rebuilding continued in the auto i ndustry in the aftermath of the s upply chain disruptions earlier in 
the year. Capital investment plans were larg ely unchanged, with severa l manufacturers moving 
ahead with planned increases in capacity. Hiring re mained selective, but the majority of contacts 
indicated plans to increase employ ment next year. A staffing firm not ed slower growth in billable 
hours and below-average seasonal hiring in office  and clerical positions. However, they also 
indicated that permanent placement activity co ntinued to increase for industrial positions. 
Manufacturers again cited difficulties in attracting j ob candidates with ideal skill sets in technical 
fields such as engineering. Many of these firms i ndicated that they would rather postpone hiring a 
candidate until economic conditions improve to a poi nt that would clearly warrant them doing so.  
 
 VII-2 
Construction/real estate .  Construction activity was subdue d in late November and early 
December, but there was some improvement in overa ll real estate conditi ons. Builder showroom 
traffic picked up slightly, although in general residentia l real estate market conditions remained 
depressed as foreclosed properties continued to put downward pressure on pr ices and single-family 
construction remained at low levels. In contrast, multi-family construction continued to be an area 
of strength. The number of residential leases be ing signed increased from the previous reporting 
period and rents rose. Nonresidential  construction was also up mode rately with the strongest gains 
in Class A properties. Contacts noted greater demand for both industrial and he althcare facilities. In 
addition, commercial real estate conditions improved slightly with commercial rents stabilizing and 
a decline in the availabl e amount of sublease space.  
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing production increased in  late November and December. 
Contacts in the manufacturing se ctor were more optimistic for 2012 given the pace at which their 
order books are filling through the first quarter . Auto production increased over the reporting 
period. However, some contacts still are concerne d about the ability to ramp up production much 
further over the near-term because auto suppliers may be approaching capaci ty constraints. Demand 
for heavy equipment remained strong, led by robust  activity in the energy a nd agriculture sectors. 
Exports also continued to be a source of strengt h, although slower growth in China and Europe was 
noted to have held back sales at some firms. In th e steel sector, inventories at service centers remain 
near desired levels, and given the continued strength in the auto, energy, machinery, and mining 
sectors, steel production was expected to  increase in the first quarter of 2012.  
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions were little changed during the reporting period. 
Corporate funding costs, while va riable, were largely unchanged on balance. Liquidity remained 
relatively scarce in the high yield debt markets.  Banking contacts indicated that business loan 
demand continued to be subdued, with the ex ception of some large multinational mining 
corporations. Businesses utilization of credit lines  was only up a bit. Because lenders continue to 
see their clients’ balance sheets growing stronger, they  speculated that uncertainty about future 
business conditions was restraining the demand for cr edit. However, contacts also noted that some 
larger manufacturers are making loans to sub-tier suppliers out of retained earnings, thus reducing 
these suppliers’ typical demand for credit from financial institutions. 
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures eased in late November and early December. While pressure 
on costs remained from commodities such as st eel and food, it moderated significantly for cotton 
and energy goods. Pass through of elevated ma terial costs to consumers continued.  Wage pressures 
 
 VII-3 
remained moderate, with contacts  noting that annual increases in wage and non-wage benefits were 
largely in-line with last year’s increases. 
Agriculture .  Farm income for 2011 was higher than  in 2010; and farmland values and cash 
rental rates were reported to be higher once again. After falling init ially during the reporting period, 
corn and soybean prices rose in the last half of  December. More generally, crop prices fell during 
the harvest period. However, most crop deliveries i nvolved sales at pre-harvest prices, as many end 
users found it necessary to ensure su fficient supplies prior to the harv est. In contrast, for those who 
didn’t pre-sell, more of their crop ended up being put into storage. Milk and hog prices fell during 
the reporting period, while cattle pr ices increased. Still, export dema nd helped keep prices for both 
dairy and meat products higher than they were at  the end of 2010. Input co sts have risen for the 
coming planting season.  
 
 
 VIII-1 
 Eighth District — St. Louis 
Summary 
The economy of the Eighth District grew at a modest pace since our previous survey. 
Manufacturing activity has increased since the previ ous report and activity in the services sector 
has also increased. Residential real estate ac tivity, in contrast, has continued to decline. 
Commercial and industrial real estate activ ity has been sluggish, although contacts noted 
improvement in some areas. Overall lending at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks 
declined slightly in the three-month pe riod from mid-September to mid-December. 
 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity has increased since our  previous report. Several manufacturers 
reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a smaller number of 
contacts reported plans to close plants or decrease operations. Firms in the industrial gas, 
metallic component, automotive parts, primary metal, and clothing manufacturing industries 
announced plans to increase operations and hire ne w workers. In contrast, firms in the speaker 
component, medical equipment, furniture, and dy e manufacturing industri es announced plans to 
decrease operations and lay off workers. 
Activity in the District’s services sector has increased since our prev ious report. Firms in 
distribution services, consulting services, and health services announced plans to expand 
operations and hire new workers. Se veral general retail contacts in  the District reported stronger 
holiday sales compared with last year. Distri ct auto dealers reported strong sales of luxury 
automobiles and pickup trucks. 
 VIII-2 
 Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales continued to decline throughout most  of the Eighth Dist rict. Compared with 
the same period in 2010, November 2011 year-to- date home sales were down 3 percent in 
Memphis, 4 percent in St. Loui s, 5 percent in Louisville, a nd 7 percent in Little Rock. 
Residential construction also continued to decrease throughout the District. November 2011 
year-to-date single-family housing permits decr eased in the majority  of the District’s 
metropolitan areas compared with the same pe riod in 2010. Permits decreased 1 percent in 
Memphis, 17 percent in Louisville, and 21 percent in Little Rock and St. Louis. 
Commercial and industrial real estate activ ity was slow throughout most of the Eighth 
District. Contacts in central Kent ucky reported that commercial re al estate activity continues to 
be sluggish, while contacts in central Arkansas reported soft demand for commercial real estate 
loans. Contacts in Louisville noted that the heal th care industry is provid ing most of the current 
demand for office spaces. Commerci al and industrial construction activity remained unchanged 
throughout most of the District. Contacts in s outh-central Kentucky repor ted that construction 
activity is modest but noted new commercial cons truction projects in the Scottsville and Bowling 
Green areas. Contacts in St. Louis reported co ntinued limited constructi on, while contacts in 
Louisville noted that speculative development has still not recovere d. Contacts in western 
Kentucky reported that constructio n firms are experiencing little activity with the exception of 
government-related projects. 
 
Banking and Finance 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks decreased 0.2 
percent in the three-month period from mid-Sept ember to mid-December. Real estate lending, 
 VIII-3 
 which accounts for 73.4 percent of total loans, decreased 0.5 percent. Commercial and industrial 
loans, accounting for 15.5 percen t of total loans, decreased 0.2 percent. Loans to individuals, 
accounting for 4.7 percent of loans, increased 2. 0 percent. All other loans, accounting for 6.4 
percent of total loans, increa sed 8.0 percent. Over this pe riod, total deposits  increased 0.3 
percent. 
 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
As of the beginning of December, the number of bales of cotton ginned (separated from 
the seed) in the District st ates was up by 11.9 percent over th e same period in 2010. Monthly 
output of commercial red meat for October 201 1 increased compared with September 2011 and 
October 2010. However, the District’s tota l live weight and number of young chickens 
slaughtered decreased between  September and October 2011. Th e District’s monthly coal 
production for November 2011 was 2.7 percent lowe r compared with November 2010; however, 
the District’s year-to-date co al production at the end of N ovember 2011 was 2.8 percent higher 
than the same period in 2010. 
IX-1 
 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy grew at a modest pace since the last repor t. Solid growth was 
reported in some areas of consumer spending an d in the energy and mining sectors. Slight 
to moderate growth was noted in commercia l and residential real  estate, professional 
services, manufacturing, and agri culture. Activity in the construction sector was down from 
a year ago, while the unexpected lack of snowfall dampened tourism. Labor markets 
showed continued signs of modest strengthe ning, while wage increases remained subdued. 
Prices generally remained level. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending increased during the holid ay season. Holiday sales at a Minneapolis 
area mall were up more than 10 percent compared with a year ago. Sales at a North 
Dakota mall during late November and Decembe r were up about 8 percent over last year. 
A mall manager in Montana noted heavy traffic at the mall during the week before Christmas and the day after Christmas. Same-s tore sales at a Minnesota-based retailer 
increased about 2 percent in November compar ed with a year ago; Black Friday sales 
were particularly strong. A Minnesota-based sporting goods store repo rted that Internet 
sales on Cyber Monday (Nov. 28) increased 50 pe rcent over last year. Warm weather set 
back some sales of winter apparel, but clea r roads allowed shoppers  to get to stores. A 
domestic auto dealer report ed strong sales in December. 
Tourism activity was down. A lack of snow and surprisingly warm weather 
stymied snowmobiling, ice fishing, and skii ng in many areas. Tourism officials in 
Minnesota noted that the lack of snow was affecting businesses th at cater to winter 
recreation. Low snowfall in Yellowstone Nati onal Park was affecting nearby businesses 
that offer winter tours of the park on snow mobiles and in snowcoaches. However, a ski 
resort in Minnesota reported strong preseason sales; the number of visits through the end 
of December was at expected levels. In western South Dakota, a snowmobiling-related 
business and a ski resort both have received ca lls from a number of  people who are ready 
to visit once more snow falls.  Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction activity decreased mo destly over the past  year. The value of 
commercial building permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area was down slightly in 
November from November 2010. Respondents to the University of St. Thomas’s 
IX-2 
 semiannual Minnesota Commercial Real Esta te Survey (November) expected higher land 
and building costs, which should dampen construction. However, several commercial 
construction projects are under way or pla nned in Montana. Residential construction 
decreased from last year. The number of perm itted residential units in the Minneapolis-
St. Paul, Sioux Falls, and Billings, Mont., area s was down in November from a year ago, 
but increased in Fargo, N.D. 
 Commercial real estate market activity increased.  According to the 
aforementioned University of St. Thomas su rvey, respondents expected growth in rents 
and occupancy but flat rates of return on investment. Indus trial real estate activity 
increased since the last report, according to  a large Minnesota comm ercial broker. Home 
sales in December were up from the same pe riod a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul 
area, and the inventory of home s for sale was at six-year lo ws; however, prices continued 
to decline. In the Sioux Falls area, Novemb er new listings were down, sales activity was 
flat, and prices decreased from a year ago. 
Services 
Activity at professional business services fi rms increased since the last report. An 
information technology consulting firm noted  a solid backlog of business for 2012. An 
architectural firm noted more potential project s up for bid, but said many projects never 
become reality. An accounting firm reported flat activity over the past month. Manufacturing 
The District manufacturing s ector expanded sligh tly since the last report. A November 
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota  and North Dakota, and was flat in South 
Dakota. A number of factory expansions were reported in eastern South Dakota, 
including at a plastics producer and a packagi ng firm. In southern Minnesota, a firm that 
produces pressurized storage tanks for the natural gas industry is expanding into a 
currently empty building, and a large plant that makes elect ronically shaded glass began 
operations after several years of development. Energy and Mining 
Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued to increase. A new wind energy 
project was announced in western Wisconsin. While District oil and gas exploration 
activity decreased slightly since the last repo rt, it remained well above year-earlier levels. 
IX-3 
 An oil transport facility expansion is planne d in North Dakota that will add a rail car 
loading area and increase holding capacity  by 80,000 barrels per day. Mining activity 
remained strong. A new venture on Minnesota’s Iron Range to extract material for steel 
production from old mining dumps recently bega n operations at one site and made its 
first shipments; two more sites are planned. 
Agriculture 
Growth in the agricultural sector moderated, as some commodity prices declined. Prices received by farmers for wheat, corn, hogs, and dairy products decreased in December 
from the previous month. Cattle, poultry, egg, dry bean, and hay prices increased in 
December from the previous month. Meanwhile, a partnership announced the development of a large grain-lo ading facility in Minnesota. 
 
Employment, Wages, and Prices  
Labor markets showed continued signs of modest strengthening. A pharmacy benefits 
management company recently announced plans to add 300 jobs in Minnesota. A bank is 
hiring almost 80 more workers at a call center  in South Dakota. Bank directors noted that 
in the Dakotas and some parts of Montana,  employers would hire  if they could find 
workers; some of these employers have st arted to offer relocation packages as an 
incentive. According to a recent survey by an  employment services firm, 15 percent of 
respondents in Minneapolis-St. Pa ul expect to increase staffi ng levels during first quarter 
2012, while 8 percent expect to decrease staff. A year a go, 10 percent expected to 
increase hiring, while 6 per cent expected decreases. Minne sota initial claims for 
unemployment benefits decreased 18 percent in November compared with  a year earlier.  
Wage increases were subdued. Several c ontacts noted small wage increases at 
their firms. A Minnesota manufacturer of re sidential windows reporte d that its employees 
will go without an annual bonus for the third st raight year, but the company also hasn’t 
laid anyone off during those three years. 
Prices generally remained level. End- of-December Minnesota gasoline prices 
were flat since the last repor t, and only 18 cents per gallon more than a year ago. Overall 
metals prices were level since the last re port and lower than a year ago. A Minnesota-
based electronics retailer heavil y discounted products at its st ores during the early part of 
the holiday shopping season. However, a bank di rector noted that a number of District 
manufacturers were planning to raise prices in 2012.
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy expanded at a m odest pace in late November and December. 
Consumer spending softened, with weakness in au to, restaurant, and tour ism sales. District 
manufacturing activity contracted slightly, thoug h factory operators remained optimistic about 
growth in the coming months. High-tech fi rms reported continued strong growth, while 
transportation activity was flat. Residential and commercial real estate conditions remained broadly weak, but contacts expressed increased optimism about sales and prices in the coming 
months. District banks reporte d generally steady loan demand and improved loan quality. High 
crude oil prices buoyed activity in  the District’s energy sector. Agricultural growing conditions 
improved, but higher input and production costs cons trained farm profits. Rising input costs were 
reported in several sectors, but few District c ontacts noted either hiring shortages or wage 
pressures. 
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending softened in late November and December, 
with a slowdown in the auto, restaurant, and tour ism sectors. Many District  contacts attributed 
the weakness in spending to ongoing regulator y and political uncerta inty. Most retailers, 
however, expected spending to ri se over the next three months. Following several months of 
strong activity, auto dealer s reported a dip in sales with slow er sales expected in coming months. 
Auto inventories increased ove r the previous survey period, and most dealers reported 
satisfaction with current levels. Re staurant sales were flat despite  larger average check amounts.  
However, restaurant contacts expected sales to rebound over the next three months. Tourism 
activity slowed, as winter storms hampered some t ourist activity but helped ski resorts. Hoteliers 
reported lower occupancy rates but stable average room rates.  
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.  Manufacturing activ ity contracted 
slightly during the survey period, but factory operators remained optimistic about the coming 
months. Activity was broadly weaker, with produc tion, shipments, and new orders lower relative 
to the prior survey. The weakest sectors were food processing and fabricated metals, while 
growth in machinery and high-tech manuf acturing remained strong. Order backlogs, 
manufacturing employment, and average hours worked declined. Despite weaker activity, 
expectations were positive for the coming m onths for production, shipments, and orders. 
Transportation firms reported mostly unchange d conditions as activity remained well above 
 
 X-2  
year-ago levels. Most high-tech services firm s reported sales gains and increased capital 
spending. Contacts in both the tr ansportation and high-tech sector s reported continued difficulty 
finding skilled workers. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential and commercial real estate activity remained 
sluggish in late November and D ecember. District home prices were  flat, but most real estate 
contacts expected prices to rise along with home sales over the next three months. Multiple 
contacts reported multi-family housing as a source of strength in the housing market. Mortgage lenders reported weak mortgage demand with fe wer home purchases and re financings relative to 
the previous survey period. Lenders  cited stricter mortgage lending requirements as a key factor 
underlying weak loan demand. Housing starts declin ed further, and expectations about future 
construction activity remained subdued. Construction supply firm s reported weak sales over the 
survey period, and most expected little cha nge in activity over the coming months. Commercial 
real estate sales, pri ces, and vacancy rates improved, and Dist rict contacts were more optimistic 
about the coming months. Rents on commercial properties were stab le and expected to rise over 
the next three months. Developers repor ted little change in access to credit. 
Banking.  Almost all bankers reported  generally steady loan de mand, stable or improving 
loan quality, and increased deposits. Loan de mand by category was mixed. Most respondents 
reported steady loan demand for commercial and industrial loans, commercial and residential 
real estate loans, and consumer installment loans. Remaining respondents were split between 
stronger and weaker demand within each of thes e categories. Credit standards remained largely 
unchanged in all major loan categories and deposits  increased for the eighth straight survey. 
Bankers generally reported loan quality as st eady or improving compared to a year ago and 
reported the outlook for loan quality over th e next six months as steady or improving. 
Agriculture.  Agricultural growing conditions impr oved in late November and December 
but farm income prospects dimmed with high in put costs. Timely rains eased drought conditions 
in the Southern Plains. Most of the winter  wheat crop emerged in good condition, though more 
protective snow cover was needed  for the winter dormancy peri od. Volatile crop prices and high 
input costs tempered crop profit expectati ons for the coming year. High production costs 
trimmed margins for livestock operators even  though strong export dema nd underpinned prices. 
Still, with historically hi gh profits, many farmers were re paying operating loans, buying 
farmland and purchasing additional machinery and equipment. District contacts reported an 
 
 X-3  
increase in the number of farmland auctions as record high land prices enticed more landowners 
to sell. 
Energy.  District energy and mining contacts repo rted continued str ong activity in late 
November and December and remained optimistic about the coming months. Drilling rig counts 
were flat in most District st ates but remained well above year -ago levels. Drilling continued to 
shift away from dry natural gas and toward liqui d-rich formations. Howe ver, crude exploration 
in the Niobrara formation in Wyoming slowed as  contacts reported bette r opportunities in other 
areas. Producers expected stable crude prices but re latively weak natural gas prices over the next 
three months. Attracting qualified workers and finding adequate equipment remained a concern for oil and gas contacts. District coal producti on declined slightly in  November and December 
and remained below year-ago levels. A recent drop in ethanol prices trimmed margins for 
ethanol producers despite lower i nput costs and strong export demand. 
Wages and Prices.  District contacts reporte d higher prices for both inputs and finished 
goods, but wage pressures remained confined to select industries and occupations. Manufacturers 
reported an uptick in input prices in late Nove mber and December, but relatively few reported 
higher finished goods prices. Manuf acturers expected further pric e increases for both inputs and 
finished goods in the coming months. Most rest aurants reported a continued rise in food costs 
and expected further increases over the next th ree months. Retailers and transportation firms 
increased prices in the latest survey period, while construction s uppliers reported falling prices 
due to weak building demand. Few contacts outside of the ener gy, high-tech, and transportation 
sectors reported either hiring s hortages or upward wage pressures,  and most expected little wage 
pressure in the coming months. Rising employee be nefit costs, particularly for health care, 
remained a concern for many contacts. 
XI-1 
 
 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS   
 
 The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace since the last report. Manufacturing 
activity was mixed. Contacts said retail sales were ro bust and automobile sales held steady. Demand for 
business services was solid, and activity in tran sportation services rose modestly. Housing and 
commercial real estate markets continued to improve  slightly. Construction activity remained subdued, 
with apartment construction being the major excepti on. Financial services respondents said overall loan 
demand was flat to up slightly. Energy activity slow ed somewhat, but respondents expect strong growth 
in activity in 2012. Agricultural conditions remained  weak. Employment levels  were mostly unchanged. 
Price and wage pressures were subdued. 
Prices   Contacts across industries said prices held steady or declined. The exceptions were 
producers of paper, fabricated metals and food  who noted increased prices for some inputs. Crop 
commodity prices were generally lower than six week s ago, while cattle prices held fairly steady.   
The price of WTI moved in a narrow range betw een $95 and $100 per barrel during the reporting 
period. Natural gas prices remained low, near $3.50  per thousand cubic feet, due to unseasonably warm 
weather and large inventories. Diesel and gasoline pr ices declined by 20 cents per gallon over the past six 
weeks, and prices of petrochemicals and plastics held steady or fell slightly.  
Labor Market     Employment levels were flat to up sli ghtly at most responding firms. Staffing 
firms continued to note high levels of demand. Energy industry respondents said labor shortages for 
skilled workers, such as engineers, geologists, and m achinists, remained a barrier to expansion. Some 
producers of food, fabricated metals and transporta tion equipment noted moderate employment increases, 
and auto dealers said they continue to look for ad ditional workers. Wage pressures remained minimal, 
although staffing firms noted modest increases in b illing rates for skilled workers. Several firms noted 
plans to give employees cost-of-living adjustments next year.  
Manufacturing    Construction-related manufacturers’ r esponses were mixed. Stone, clay and 
glass producers said demand was below expectations, wh ile lumber producers noted no change in activity. 
Fabricated metals producers said demand had increased since the last report, and some reported a pickup in private nonresidential projects, especially from fo reign investors. Primary metals demand was mostly 
stable and was characterized as “decent but not great.”  Construction-related firms’ outlooks are cautiously 
optimistic for 2012. 
Respondents in high-tech manufacturing reported th at sales grew at a weak to moderate pace 
since the last report. Sales and prices for DRAM con tinued to be very weak, while demand and prices for 
processors were holding up much better. Respondents said that increased demand for mobile devices and 
XI-2 
 
 data storage should drive up demand for semic onductors by the second quarte r of 2012. Respondents 
noted, however, that economic uncertainty remains very high.   
Conditions in the paper indust ry were mixed. Most contact s noted weakness, although one 
reported an unusually busy December with strong orders from the auto and construction industries. 
Respondents expect conditions to remain about the same in 2012 as in 2011. Automobile and aviation 
equipment manufacturers said demand had picked up sli ghtly since the last report. Expectations are for 
stronger sales of automobile equipment in 2012, but  aviation manufacturers expect only modest growth. 
Food producers noted a pickup in demand since the last  report, in part due to stronger consumer demand, 
and partly due to increased market share. Outl ooks among food industry contacts remain positive.  
Petrochemical producers noted a seasonal slowdow n in demand for most products. Producers of 
plastics and plastic feedstocks said prices and inventories stabilized after sharp declines in October and 
November. Demand for chlorine showed weakness beyond the normal seasonal slowing, and some 
contacts attributed the weakness to slower global grow th. Contacts in the refining industry noted weak 
domestic consumption of refined products, especially gasoline, although export markets were still strong. 
Inventories were said to be near expectations for th is time of year. While bot h gasoline and diesel prices 
slipped over the past six weeks, refiners’ margins remained at healthy levels, according to contacts. 
Retail Sales    Retailers said sales activity was robust during the reporting period, and retail sales 
growth saw moderate gains over the comparable y ear-ago period. However, contacts noted consumers 
remain cautious and value-driven. The Eleventh Dist rict and Midwest in general exhibited stronger sales 
growth than other parts of the nation, according to the responding firms. Inventories have increased over 
the prior year, but are at desired levels. Jewelry, sm all electronics and apparel were areas of strength in 
retail this holiday season. 
Automobile sales held steady from the prior re port and have increased year-over-year. The used 
car market remains tight. Contacts expect 2012 will be  another good year, with moderate increases in 
sales. Vehicle inventories are back to normal levels  for the most part, although some contacts reported 
light inventories due to increased activity.   
Services    Staffing firms continued to report high  levels of demand. However, some contacts 
noted a slight slowdown in activity as some clients delayed hiring until the start of 2012. Direct hires 
continued to drive business, with particularly st rong demand for professional and technical workers. One 
contact noted a shortage of skilled IT professionals. Outl ooks were more optimistic than in the last report, 
with contacts expecting demand to remain robust or improve next year.  Demand for accounting services 
remained flat, and overall growth this year has been slightly weaker than expected. Legal firms reported 
steady activity, with continued strength in demand fo r intellectual property, energy, litigation and some 
real-estate services and a slight pickup in corporate activity.  
XI-3 
 
 Reports from transportation service firms were positive. Intermodal firms reported steady cargo 
volumes during the reporting period, and outlooks are pos itive for the first half of 2012. Railroad firms 
noted a broad-based increase in ship ments, with particularly strong gr owth in petroleum products, motor 
vehicles and equipment, nonmetallic minerals, crushed stone, metals and metallic ores. Small parcel 
shipments rose strongly during the reporting period.  
Airlines reported steady passenger demand over the past six weeks. Domestic demand and travel 
to Latin America remained solid, and travel to Europe  and Asia improved slightly. Airline contacts expect 
demand to remain stable in the short term. 
Construction and Real Estate   Housing industry contacts continue to report improving 
conditions overall, although sales ac tivity remains at low levels. Home sales rose at a modest pace over 
the reporting period and new and ex isting home inventories continued to decline. Contacts are hopeful 
that the housing industry is poised for a recovery in  2012. Apartment demand remained steady since the 
last report and contacts characterize Texas markets as  tight. Apartment construction continues to increase, 
and contacts noted that multi-family properties are the favored property type among real estate investors. 
Conditions in nonresidential property markets con tinue to firm, according to most contacts. 
Demand for office space continued to rise modestly sin ce the last report, and there were some reports of 
improvement in demand for warehouse and retail space.  Nonresidential construction activity remains at 
low levels, and some contacts noted concern about 2012 as public projects come to a close. One contact noted that while conditions have improved overall, real  estate financing remains a challenge due to weak 
consumer sentiment and higher investment risk.  
Financial Services   Financial firms reported flat to modest increases in loan demand. National 
banks noted a pickup in both middle- and large-market  corporate lending activity. Regional banks said loan 
demand was mixed, with strength in energy-related lendi ng and weakness in other loan activity. Loan pricing 
remained competitive. The quality of loans outstanding continued to improve, with contacts noting a decline 
in problem loans. Outlooks are uncertain given mostly sluggish loan demand. 
Energy   Oil field activity slowed seasonally at year end, with the District rig count edging down. 
However, respondents expect a high level of activity to resume early in 2012 and increase throughout the 
year. Respondents cited strong orders, growing back logs, and good pricing for their products as evidence 
of future growth.  
Agriculture    The District remained largely in dro ught, although recent rainfalls have lessened 
the drought’s severity in most parts and benefitted the winter wheat crop. There is still very little grazing 
available, resulting in costly supplemental feeding of  livestock. Demand for agricultural products receded 
slightly over the reporting period, a lthough beef exports remained strong. 
XII - 1 
 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District con tinued to grow at a moderate pace during the 
reporting period of late November through the end of December.  Upward price pressures remained very 
modest overall, and upward wage pressures were quite  limited.  Holiday retail sales reportedly were up 
over last year’s season, and demand edged up for busin ess and consumer services.  District manufacturing 
activity grew further on net.  Production activity an d sales remained robust for agricultural producers and 
rose a bit further for providers of energy resources.  Activity in District housing markets stayed at very 
low levels, and demand for nonresidential real estat e generally was weak.  Reports from financial 
institutions indicated a slight increase in business loan demand.  Wages and Prices 
 Price inflation remained quite limited for most final goods and services during the reporting 
period.  Contacts noted recent price increases for sel ected commodities such as oil and for assorted food 
items at the retail level, in particular for meat .  However, intense supplier competition for existing 
customers kept a lid on final sales prices fo r the majority of retail goods and services. 
 Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressure were modest, although they 
continued to note rising costs for employee health benefits.  Elevated unemployment rates and limited 
hiring kept compensation gains modest across most regions and sectors, with the exception of significant 
wage increases for workers with specialized skills in selected manufacturing and technology sectors.  
Looking ahead, most businesses expect little change in the pace of hiring and wage gains next year. 
Retail Trade and Services 
 Retail sales were up compared with last year’s holiday season, with gains reported by traditional 
department stores as well as discount chains.  Inventori es generally were at or near desired levels given 
the pace of sales, although contacts reported an exces s of winter apparel resulting from unusually mild 
weather.  Demand remained largely unchanged compar ed with prior reporting pe riods for retailers of 
major appliances, furniture, and electronics.  Sal es improved somewhat for grocers.  Sales of new 
XII - 2 
 automobiles rose further overall during the reporting period, although slightly softer demand was noted 
for the last few weeks.  Demand for used vehicl es remained robust, and dealers reported marked 
improvement in the quality of trade-ins compared with earlier in the year. 
 Demand for business and consumer services was mixe d but appeared to expand slightly on net.  
Demand for transportation services remained largely flat, as did demand for professional services such as 
legal services and accounting.  Sales were largely stable on a seasonal basis for restaurants and other 
food-service providers.  For providers of health-car e services, demand softened a bit further, as higher 
emergency room visits were  more than offset by declines in inpa tient admissions and surgeries.  By 
contrast, sales continued to expa nd for providers of technology ser vices to businesses and consumers, 
although the pace of growth continued to slow.  District  travel activity picked up further, with additional 
growth in demand reported for the tourism a nd business segments of the market alike.  
Manufacturing 
 District manufacturing activity expanded furthe r on balance during the reporting period of late 
November through the end of December.  Makers of commercial aircraft and parts reported further 
expansion in production activity, with ongoing growth in  new orders attributed in part to rising demand 
for fuel-efficient aircraft.  Activity remained largely st able for metal fabricators and is expected to remain 
so for the foreseeable future.  For manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology products, 
demand growth continued to slow, and capacity u tilization dipped a bit from existing high levels as 
companies sought to hold down inventory growth.  Capacity utilization rates for petroleum refiners 
remained largely stable or rose somewhat as robus t global demand for distillate products, such as diesel 
and jet fuel, offset weak domestic demand for gaso line.  Activity remained exceptionally sluggish for 
manufacturers of wood products.  
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand was robust for agricultural producers a nd grew a bit for natural resources used for 
energy production.  Final sales and orders for most  agricultural products, including livestock and a variety 
of crops, continued to expand.  Elevated price levels  for a range of metals s upported further expansion of 
XII - 3 
 mining activity in parts of the District.  Overall demand for crude oil rose slightly, largely reflecting 
robust foreign demand, while mild winter weather has kept demand for natural gas subdued and caused 
extraction activity to wane a bit.  
Real Estate and Construction 
 
 Home demand in the District remained at very  low levels, and demand for commercial real estate 
stayed weak.  The sales pace for new and existing ho mes was somewhat mixed across the District but 
sluggish overall.  In response to slow sales and continued high numbers of financially distressed 
properties, home construction activity remained mo ribund and prices were mostly flat.  Demand for 
commercial real estate remained weak overall, k eeping vacancy rates for office and industrial space 
elevated in most parts of the District.  However, in selected geographic areas, such as the San Francisco 
Bay Area and Seattle, expansion in the information te chnology sector continued to  spur demand growth 
for office and industrial space. 
Financial Institutions 
 Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan demand improved a touch relative to 
the prior reporting period.  The volume of new commercial and industrial loans inched up, although 
contacts noted that businesses remain very cautious in their approach to capital spending.  Contacts again 
noted stiff competition among lenders to extend cr edit to well-qualified small and medium-sized 
businesses, causing sustained downward pressure on loan  rates and fees.  Contacts from the venture 
capital sector noted a slight pickup in IPO and investme nt activity, on the heels of a slowdown in the prior 
reporting period.  On the consumer side, loan demand  remained largely unchanged.  In general, lending 
standards stayed relatively restrictive for many t ypes of business and consumer loans, despite further 
modest improvements in overall credit quality. 
 