The Beige Book
Summar y of Commentar y on
Current Economic Conditions b y
Federal Reser ve District
Januar y 2025
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
Contents
About This Publication ................................................................................................... .ii
National Summar y.......................................................................................................... .1
Federal Reser ve Bank of Boston ................................................................................. .5
Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York............................................................................. .8
Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia ...................................................................... .12
Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland ........................................................................... .16
Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond .......................................................................... .20
Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta ............................................................................... .24
Federal Reser ve Bank of Chicago ............................................................................. .28
Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis ............................................................................ .31
Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis ...................................................................... .34
Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas City ....................................................................... .37
Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas ................................................................................. .41
Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco ................................................................... .45i
About This Publication
What is the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is a F ederal Reser ve System publication about cur rent economic conditions
across the 12 F ederal Reser ve Districts. It characterizes regional economic conditions and pros-
pects based on a variet y of mostl y qualitati ve infor mation, gathered directl y from each District’ s
sources. Repor ts are published eight times per year .
What is the pur pose of the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is intended to characterize the change in economic conditions since the last
repor t. Outreach for the Beige Book is one of man y ways the F ederal Reser ve System engages
with businesses and other organizations about economic de velopments in their communities.
Because this infor mation is collected from a wide range of contacts through a variet y of for mal
and infor mal methods, the Beige Book can complement other for ms of regional infor mation gath-
ering. The Beige Book is not a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.
How is the infor mation collected?
Each F ederal Reser ve Bank gather s infor mation on cur rent economic conditions in its District
through repor ts from Bank and Branch director s, plus inter views and online questionnaires com-
pleted b y businesses, communit y organizations, economists, mar ket experts, and other sources.
Contacts are not selected at random; rather , Banks stri ve to curate a di verse set of sources that
can pro vide accurate and objecti ve infor mation about a broad range of economic acti vities. The
Beige Book ser ves as a regular summar y of this infor mation for the public.
How is the infor mation used?
The infor mation from contacts supplements the data and anal ysis used b y Federal Reser ve econo -
mists and staff to assess economic conditions in the F ederal Reser ve Districts. The qualitati ve
nature of the Beige Book creates an o pportunity to characterize dynamics and identify emerging
trends in the econom y that ma y not be readil y app arent in the a vailable economic data. This infor-
Note: The F ederal Reser ve officiall y identifies Districts b y number and Reser ve Bank cit y. In the 12th District, the Seattle
Branch ser ves Alaska, and the San F rancisco Bank ser ves Haw aii. The System ser ves commonw ealths and ter ritories as
follows: the Ne w York Bank ser ves the Commonw ealth of Puer to Rico and the U.S. V irgin Islands; the San F rancisco Bank
serves American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonw ealth of the Nor thern Mariana Islands. The Board of Go vernors revised
the branch boundaries of the System in F ebruary 1996.ii
mation enables comp arison of economic conditions in different p arts of the countr y, which can be
helpful for assessing the outlook for the national econom y.
The Beige Book does not ha ve the type of infor mation I’m looking
for. What other infor mation is a vailable?
The F ederal Reser ve System conducts a wide ar ray of recur ring sur veys of businesses, house-
holds, and communit y organizations. A list of statistical releases compiled b y the F ederal Reser ve
Board is a vailable here, links to each of the F ederal Reser ve Banks are a vailable here, and a sum-
mary of the System’ s communit y outreach is a vailable here. In addition, Fed Listens  events ha ve
been held around the countr y to hear about how monetar y polic y affects peo ples’ daily lives and
livelihoods. The System also relies on a variet y of advisor y councils —whose member s are draw n
from a wide ar ray of businesses, non-profit organizations, and communit y groups—to hear di verse
perspecti ves on the econom y in car rying out its responsibilities.iii The Beige Book
National Summar y
Overall Economic Activity
Economic acti vity increased slightl y to moderatel y across the t welve F ederal Reser ve Districts in
late No vember and December . Consumer spending mo ved up moderatel y, with most Districts
repor ting strong holida y sales that e xceeded e xpectations. V ehicle sales gre w modestl y. Constr uc-
tion acti vity decreased o verall, with se veral Districts indicating that high costs for materials and
financing w ere w eighing on growth. Manufacturing decreased slightl y on net, and a number of Dis-
tricts said manufacturer s were stockpiling in ventories in anticip ation of higher tariffs. Residential
real estate acti vity was unchanged on balance, as high mor tgage rates continued to hold back
demand. Commercial real estate sales edged up. The nonfinancial ser vices sector gre w slightl y
overall, with Districts highlighting growth in leisure and hospitalit y and transpor tation, notabl y air
travel. Truck freight volumes, how ever, were dow n. Financial ser vice pro viders repor ted modest
growth in lending and little change in asset qualit y overall, though lender s and communit y organi-
zations voiced concer ns about delinquencies among small businesses and low er-income house-
holds. Nonprofit social ser vice agencies faced high demand amidst uncer tainty about future
funding le vels. Agricultural conditions remained w eak o verall, with generall y lower far m incomes
and w eather-related str uggles in some areas. The spread of a vian flu reduced eg g supplies and
pushed up prices. Energ y acti vity was mixed. More contacts w ere optimistic about the outlook for
2025 than w ere pessimistic about it, though contacts in se veral Districts e xpressed concer ns that
changes in immigration and tariff polic y could negati vely affect the econom y.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment tick ed up on balance, with six Districts repor ting a slight increase and six repor ting
no change. Contacts in se veral ser vice industries, notabl y healthcare, continued to see job
growth. Constr uction emplo yment increased slightl y, while manufacturing emplo yment w as flat.
Contacts across multiple sector s noted difficult y finding skilled wor kers, and repor ts of la yoffs
remained rare. How ever, contacts in some Districts e xpressed greater uncer tainty about their
future staffing needs. W age growth pick ed up to a moderate p ace in most Districts, though there
were some repor ts that w age pressures had eased.
Note: This repor t was prep ared at the F ederal Reser ve Bank of Chicago based on infor mation collected on or before
Januar y 6, 2025, and thus, before the wildfires in the Greater Los Angeles area star ted. This document summarizes com-
ments recei ved from contacts outside the F ederal Reser ve System and is not a commentar y on the vie ws of
Federal Reser ve officials.1
Prices
Prices increased modestl y overall, with growth rates ranging from flat to moderate. Contacts in
most Districts repor ted modest increases in selling prices, though there w ere instances of flat or
decreasing prices as w ell, particular ly in the retail and manufacturing sector s. Input costs also
rose, with contacts highlighting higher insurance prices, p articular ly for health insurance. How ever,
as with selling prices, there w ere se veral mentions of flat or low er input costs, p articular ly for fuel.
Contacts e xpected prices to continue to rise in 2025, with some noting the potential for higher tar-
iffs to contribute to price increases.
Highlights b y Federal Reser ve District
Boston
Economic acti vity increased slightl y, with modest increases in tourism acti vity and home sales,
slight increases in retail sales, and relati vely flat acti vity otherwise. Prices w ere mostl y steady
despite slight cost pressures for some fir ms. Emplo yment w as stable, and w ages increased mod-
estly. Expectations w ere optimistic on balance, although some contacts remained uncer tain about
the outlook.
New York
Economic acti vity in the Second District increased slightl y during the repor ting period. Emplo yment
in the region gre w slightl y. Consumer spending increased moderatel y, with stronger-than-e xpected
holida y retail sales. Commercial real estate mar kets impro ved slightl y, with growth in demand in
New York City office mar kets. Selling prices continued to rise at a modest p ace, although manufac-
turers repor ted that prices largel y held steady .
Philadelphia
Business acti vity continued to grow slightl y in the cur rent Beige Book period. Auto sales led con-
sumer spending with a modest increase. Manufacturer s repor ted a slight decline in acti vity. Real
wages and prices continued to rise modestl y, and emplo yment rose slightl y. Inflation e xpectations
rose o ver concer ns about deficits, tariffs, and immigration. On a verage, fir ms expect moderate
economic growth o ver the ne xt six months.
Cleveland
District business acti vity grew modestl y in recent w eeks, and contacts e xpected acti vity to
increase fur ther in the months ahead. Retailer s noted higher-than-anticip ated sales, while manu-
facturer s said that demand remained soft. Emplo yment le vels w ere generall y flat. O verall, contacts
indicated that w ages and nonlabor input costs gre w moderatel y, and prices increased modestl y.2 The Beige Book
Richmond
The regional econom y continued to grow modestl y this c ycle. Consumer spending and tra vel gre w
moderatel y over the holida y sho pping and tra vel season. F inancial ser vices fir ms repor ted modest
growth while demand for nonfinancial ser vices w as subdued. Manufacturing acti vity slow ed slightl y
this c ycle and por t activity was mixed. Emplo yment le vels w ere unchanged, and price growth w as
moderate.
Atlanta
Economic acti vity in the Sixth District e xpanded modestl y. Emplo yment w as steady and w ages
grew slowl y. Input costs and prices increased modestl y. Consumer spending gre w moderatel y.
Demand for housing increased modestl y. Transpor tation acti vity grew slightl y. Loan growth w as
moderate. Manufacturing declined slowl y. Energ y acti vity grew modestl y, but agriculture
demand fell.
Chicago
Economic acti vity increased slightl y. Consumer spending increased modestl y; emplo yment
increased slightl y; constr uction and real estate w as flat; nonbusiness contacts saw little change in
activity; and manufacturing and business spending decreased slightl y. Prices increased modestl y,
wages rose moderatel y, and financial conditions loosened some. F arm incomes in 2024 w ere
below those of 2023.
St. Louis
Economic acti vity has continued to e xpand slightl y since our pre vious repor t. Repor ts on holida y
sales w ere positi ve and generall y better than e xpected. Repor ts from other sector s generall y
reflected the t ypical seasonal slowdow n. Man y of these contacts shared a positi ve outlook for the
year ahead.
Minneapolis
District economic acti vity grew slightl y. Emplo yment increased slightl y while w age growth w as mod-
erate. Prices increased slightl y overall with greater pressure on input prices. Retail contacts w ere
generall y upbeat about holida y sales, with some seeing sales sur pass pre-p andemic le vels. Manu-
facturing contracted modestl y but contacts w ere some what o ptimistic for the year ahead.
Kansas City
Economic acti vity expanded slightl y in the T enth District, led b y consumer spending . Contacts indi-
cated consumer s are increasingl y using longer-ter m financing and consolidating debt to manage
household cash flows. Contacts broadl y repor ted expectations that economic growth, hiringNational Summar y 3
activity and price growth will all accelerate in coming months, but also e xpressed concer ns over
potential polic y changes.
Dallas
The Ele venth District econom y expanded moderatel y over the repor ting period. Growth resumed in
the manufacturing sector and re venues rose in nonfinancial ser vices and retail. In addition, bank
loan volume and demand e xpanded. Home sales increased slightl y but energ y acti vity was flat.
Emplo yment rose slightl y, and w ages and prices gre w moderatel y. Outlooks continued to impro ve
although concer ns about anticip ated changes in domestic polic y remained ele vated.
San F rancisco
Economic acti vity expanded slightl y. Emplo yment le vels and o verall price le vels w ere generall y
stable. W ages rose slightl y. Activity in ser vices sector s was steady to slightl y up. Retail sales gre w
modestl y. Activity in manufacturing and commercial real estate w ere varied, while the housing
market and lending acti vity were steady . Conditions in agriculture softened slightl y.4 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Boston
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity increased slightl y overall. Prices and emplo yment le vels w ere roughl y
unchanged, and w ages rose at a modest p ace. Air tra vel was a relati ve bright spot, as domestic
air passenger traffic through Boston finall y surpassed 2019 le vels, and p assenger traffic through
the W orcester air port increased substantiall y in the p ast year . Tourism acti vity overall increased
only modestl y, how ever, and restaurants in some areas repor ted softer-than-e xpected sales. Retail
revenues rose slightl y, and consumer s remained highl y price conscious. Manufacturing sales w ere
mixed, while soft ware and IT ser vices fir ms experienced stable and health y demand. Residential
real estate sales increased modestl y, helped b y impro ved in ventories in some areas, while com-
mercial real estate acti vity was flat. The outlook w as modestl y optimistic on balance, although
some contacts had concer ns for 2025 related to how national economic policies might change
and where long-ter m interest rates would land.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as roughl y steady , and w ages increased modestl y on a verage. Contacts in the retail,
tourism, and soft ware and IT ser vices sector s all repor ted stable headcounts. Among manufac-
turing contacts, headcounts increased slightl y at selected fir ms, decreased modestl y at one in
response to slow er sales, and w ere repor tedly unchanged otherwise. Labor suppl y to retail and
tourism jobs impro ved modestl y, with contacts noting greater ease of hiring and reduced attrition.
Wages increased modestl y on a verage, and contacts repor ted no ele vated w age pressures. How-
ever, one manufacturing contact e xperienced a significant increase in health insurance costs that
they partly passed on to emplo yees, while offering a slight w age increase as an incomplete offset.
No contacts mentioned plans for major changes in hiring or w ages in 2025. Cape Cod contacts,
whose businesses rel y hea vily on seasonal wor ker visas, e xpressed concer ns that potential
changes to visa programs could restrict their labor suppl y in 2025 or be yond.
Prices
Prices w ere about flat on balance. An online retailer repor ted onl y modest pricing pressures and
remained k eenly aware of consumer s’ heightened price sensiti vity. The same contact w as cau-
tiousl y optimistic that an y tariffs would not ha ve a major imp act on their prices, owing to changes
5
made to their suppl y chain in recent year s. Hotel room rates in the Greater Boston area decreased
modestl y on a year-o ver-year basis, but contacts pointed out that the change w as in relation to the
record high room prices of No vember 2023. Manufacturer s held output prices steady , even though
most e xperienced slight to modest increases in input prices. Soft ware and IT ser vices fir ms
posted modest price increases on a verage. Contacts did not foresee major changes in pricing
pressures for their businesses mo ving forw ard.
Retail and T ourism
First District retail contacts repor ted slight increases in re venues in recent months, while tourism
activity experienced modest growth on a verage. An online retailer described four th-quar ter re v-
enues as stable o verall but said that promotions had been critical to those results and that
demand for low er-end goods remained w eak. On Cape Cod in the four th quar ter, hotel occup ancy
rates and retail sales met e xpectations and w ere roughl y on p ar with the four th quar ter of 2023,
but restaurants e xperienced w eaker-than-e xpected sales. Air line p assenger traffic through Boston
increased moderatel y in the four th quar ter from one year ear lier, with domestic tra vel finall y sur-
passing 2019 le vels. W orcester air p assenger counts gre w 18 percent from the pre vious year . Like
the change in hotel room prices, hotel occup ancy rates in greater Boston w ere dow n slightl y in
November from one year ear lier, when occup ancy rates had been at all-time highs. Contacts
expected robust tourism and con vention acti vity for Boston for 2025. The outlook for retail and
restaurant acti vity was more cautious, as contacts in those businesses e xpected roughl y flat
activity going forw ard.
Manufacturing and Related Ser vices
Manufacturing sales w ere flat on a verage since the last repor t. Most fir ms repor ted no change in
revenues in the four th quar ter from the third, but sales w ere une xpectedl y soft for one manufac-
turer and une xpectedl y strong for another . The strong sales per tained to a frozen fish producer
who speculated that retailer s were accumulating in ventories in anticip ation of tariffs. A semi-
conductor mak er with flat sales said that demand for their products w as softening and that the y
would adjust emplo yment dow nward mo ving forw ard. Capital e xpenditures largel y stayed within
forecast ranges. The outlook for 2025 w as modestl y positi ve on balance, as most fir ms expected
sales to increase at least slightl y in the ne w year , but one semiconductor manufacturer e xpected
moderate declines in sales relati ve to 2024.
IT and Softw are Ser vices
First District IT and soft ware ser vices contacts described demand as stable at health y levels, and
one fir m’s total re venues for 2024 e xceeded e xpectations. Capital spending w as constant, and
physical in vestments w ere described as minimal gi ven fir ms’ reliance on cloud computing ser-6 The Beige Book
vices. Contacts e xpected re venues to increase strongl y in the fir st quar ter of 2025, based on a
combination of organic growth in demand and, in one case, the recent acquisition of another com-
pany. Considering the longer-ter m outlook, most contacts e xpressed confidence that demand for
their products would continue to rise, e ven in an en vironment of heightened political and macro -
economic uncer tainty. Nonetheless, one fir m said that increased competition from China affecting
its clients could either boost its business, as client fir ms in vested in ne w technologies to k eep up,
or hur t demand if clients w ere pushed out of the mar ket altogether b y such competition.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate acti vity was mostl y flat in the F irst District. Contacts repor ted unifor mly
that ele vated long-ter m interest rates continued to limit transactions. One contact said that bor-
rowers, hoping that long-ter m rates would decline, continued to fa vor extensions for maturing
loans. How ever, several contacts dow ngraded the chances of significant rate declines in 2025.
Office leasing acti vity remained slow , but prime Boston pro perties continued to e xperience rela-
tively health y acti vity. Contacts described industrial and retail leasing acti vity as stable. Rents and
occup ancy rates w ere unchanged across all asset classes. One contact said that a recent Massa-
chusetts law intended to promote multifamil y constr uction w as yielding tangible results in some
areas of the state. Around half of contacts w ere cautiousl y optimistic that the fir st quar ter of 2025
would bring more robust commercial real estate acti vity, while other s expected cur rent acti vity
levels to per sist or , more pessimisticall y, that interest rates would sta y higher for longer than pre vi-
ously expected and e xert negati ve imp acts on the mar ket.
Residential Real Estate
Home sales in the F irst District rose modestl y on a year-o ver-year basis in No vember 2024, the
most recent month for which data w as available. Suppor ting the increase in sales, home in vento -
ries w ere up moderatel y from a year ago o verall, with ver y large increases in Maine and V ermont,
although in ventories declined moderatel y in Massachusetts from a year ear lier. How ever, the
typical number of da ys homes spent on the mar ket increased, as multiple contacts mentioned
that some buyer s were w aiting until after the presidential election to mak e purchasing decisions.
Considering changes since No vember 2023, prices of single-famil y homes increased at a brisk
pace, while condo prices increased moderatel y on a verage in Massachusetts and Rhode Island
but decreased modestl y in the nor thern New England states. Multiple contacts e xpressed o pti-
mism that more seller s would put their homes on the mar ket in ear ly 2025 and that this would
lead to increased sales acti vity. 
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .bostonfed.org/in-the-
region.aspx .Federal Reser ve Bank of Boston 7
Federal Reser ve Bank of
New York
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Second District continued to increase slightl y during the repor ting period.
Emplo yment in the region gre w slightl y, on balance, and w ages continued to grow moderatel y.
Selling prices continued to rise at a modest p ace, although manufacturer s repor ted that prices
largel y held steady . Input price increases remained moderate. Manufacturing acti vity declined mod-
eratel y, after strong growth during the pre vious repor ting period. Consumer spending increased
moderatel y since the last repor t, and Ne w York City tourism w as robust. Retail contacts indicated
stronger than forecasted holida y sales, with stores in the District slightl y outperfor ming the nation
overall. The housing mar ket remained strong at the end of the year , and commercial real estate
markets strengthened slightl y, mar king the fir st increase after a long stretch of decline. The broad
finance sector contracted slightl y. Optimism about the outlook continued to impro ve.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment in the region continued to grow slightl y, on balance. Manufacturing fir ms repor ted
little change to headcounts since the last repor t, while contacts in the education and health,
wholesale, and finance industries saw increases. Contacts in transpor tation and w arehousing ,
constr uction, infor mation, and business ser vices repor ted modest to moderate declines. Still,
there w ere no mentions of major la yoffs in the District.
Demand for wor kers pick ed up a bit, following an election-c ycle p ause, despite what is usuall y a
slower time of the year . A contact at an upstate Ne w York emplo yment agenc y noted that finding
qualified wor kers has continued to get easier as labor suppl y was greater than labor demand. This
contact also repor ted that demand has remained strongest in the finance industr y, but there is
also more need for wor kers in sales and mar keting, an indication that comp anies are again plan-
ning for growth. A contact with insight into emplo yment across a broad ar ray of industries noted
there has been some uptick in fir m expansions, though the resulting increase in hiring continued
to be primaril y for backfilling e xisting roles.
Wage growth has remained steady and moderate. Contacts noted that wor kers are on track to
receive bonuses this year , but bonuses are not e xpected to be o verly generous gi ven the softer
labor mar ket, though W all Street bonuses are e xpected to be strong .
8
Prices
Selling price increases continued at a modest p ace, although manufacturer s repor ted that their
prices largel y held steady . Input price increases remained steady and moderate. One contact
noted shar ply rising prices for commodit y coffee, while another mentioned high prices for home-
building supplies. Business leader s across man y industries e xpressed concer n that potential
impor t tariffs would push up prices. More fir ms expected higher prices in the coming months.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending increased moderatel y since the last repor t. Dep artment store contacts indi-
cated that holida y sales w ere stronger than forecast, with stores in the District slightl y out-
perfor ming the nation o verall. Higher-end items and brands, as w ell as beaut y and fragrance
items, continued to sell w ell, although consumer s continued to seek value and responded strongl y
to discounts during the holida y season. Still, unusuall y warm temperatures led to slug gish sales
of winter coats and cold w eather accessories lik e hats and scar ves. Auto dealer s in upstate Ne w
York repor ted a strong year end. Ne w car sales gre w moderatel y, with manufacturer incenti ves con-
tinuing to spur sales, p articular ly among high-volume brands. Used car sales gre w modestl y, as
price gaps bet ween ne w and used car s have continued to mak e used car s appealing . Inventor y
remained at a health y level. Generall y, retailer s and auto dealer s are o ptimistic about sales in the
coming months.
Manufacturing and Distribution
Manufacturing acti vity declined moderatel y, after strong growth during the pre vious repor ting
period. Ne w order s and shipments declined. Wholesale and distribution-related fir ms saw con-
tinued modest increases in business acti vity. Suppl y availabilit y and deli very times w ere little
changed. Of note, a shipping industr y contact indicated that there w as an impulse among
impor ters to stockpile goods in anticip ation of tariffs, but wor ldwide shipping cap acity continued to
be limited due to Red Sea shipping route disr uptions. A potential dockwor kers strik e in Januar y
was also contributing to some of the impulse to get ahead of demand. Manufacturer s and
distribution-related fir ms generall y remained o ptimistic that business conditions will impro ve in the
months ahead.
Services
Activity in the ser vice sector w as little changed. Contacts in the business ser vices and per sonal
services industries repor ted modest to moderate declines, while there w as a slight increase in
activity among fir ms in the leisure and hospitalit y sector , and education and healthcare acti vity
largel y held steady . Optimism among fir ms in the ser vice sector continued to rise.Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York 9
Tourism acti vity in Ne w York City was quite strong at the end of the year , with the number of visi-
tors matching 2019 le vels for the fir st time since the p andemic. Hotel room rates hit record highs
in December , though the high cost of hotel rooms detracted from spending on attractions, which
have not reco vered as quickl y. How ever, Broad way attendance has been robust, with more shows
open than in the 2019 season. Contacts e xpect 2025 to be a record year for tourism.
Real Estate and Constr uction
The housing mar ket remained strong at the end of the year . New signed contracts surged in and
around Ne w York City, and demand remained solid in upstate Ne w York. Sales upstate and in the
New York City suburbs continued to be constrained b y tight in ventor y, although in ventor y has
impro ved slightl y. With such low in ventor y, ongoing solid demand continues to push home prices
higher , and bidding w ars remained pre valent. Cash purchases continued to be an outsized share
of sales, especiall y in Manhattan, as mor tgage rates w ere still relati vely high.
The rental mar ket remained fir m. Rents continued to rise in Ne w York City, while the y stabilized at
a high le vel in upstate Ne w York. Rising mor tgage rates continued to push potential buyer s to rent,
although the ver y high end of the rental mar ket softened some what.
Commercial real estate mar kets strengthened slightl y, the fir st increase after a long stretch of
decline. The Ne w York City office mar ket saw a pickup in demand, though the mar ket remains
bifurcated, with strength concentrated in reno vated class A buildings in premier areas in midtow n
Manhattan. With tourism on the rise, retail mar kets in Ne w York City have impro ved. Industrial
markets w ere mixed, with Long Island’ s industrial mar ket seeing growth, but there w ere declines in
northern New Jersey’s mar ket.
Constr uction acti vity continued to decline, albeit at a more modest p ace. Rising materials costs
and high credit costs remained limiting factor s. Still, constr uction industr y contacts anticip ated
growth in business acti vity in the coming months after an e xtended period of pessimism.
Banking and F inance
Activity in the broad finance sector contracted slightl y, though there w ere some signs of fir ming.
Small-to -medium-sized banks in the region repor ted that demand declined for all loan t ypes,
including business loans, consumer loans, and commercial and residential mor tgages, as w ell as
refinances. F or the fir st time in a while, credit standards eased, and delinquenc y rates impro ved.
Deposit rates continued to decline. Contacts in the finance industr y remained ver y optimistic
about the outlook.10 The Beige Book
Community P erspectives
High prices of groceries and housing p aired with rising debt ser vice p ayments ha ve stretched bud-
gets for man y consumer s in the District. Credit counselor s in the region ha ve noted that younger
communit y member s are increasingl y seeking assistance with managing debt. Challenges are
more acute in low er-income p arts of the District, with some areas of Ne w York City facing unusu-
ally high delinquenc y rates on consumer debt.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .newyorkfed.org/
regional-econom y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York11
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Philadelphia
Summar y of Economic Activity
On balance, business acti vity in the Third District has continued to increase slightl y since the prior
period. Consumer spending also rose slightl y, despite price-conscious consumer s; auto sales
increased the most. Nonmanufacturing acti vity edged up, as it did last period, but manufacturing
activity edged dow n—a re versal of its trend. Emplo yment rose slightl y this period—slow er than the
modest p ace last period. Real w ages and prices continued to rise modestl y. How ever, most fir ms
are expecting inflation pressure to increase because of anticip ated fiscal, trade, and immigration
policies. On a verage, fir ms expect moderate economic growth o ver the ne xt six months. Optimism
fell among all fir ms but remained more widespread among manufacturer s than nonmanufacturer s—
the inde x for the latter slipped below its nonrecession a verage.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment increased slightl y, after rising modestl y last period. Based on our December sur veys,
the inde xes for full- and p art-time emplo yment nar rowed slightl y but remained positi ve for non-
manufacturing fir ms. The emplo yment inde x for manufacturing fir ms also edged low er in
December . The a verage wor kweek inde x edged higher for nonmanufacturer s but fell shar ply for
manufacturing fir ms. Notabl y, for most of our emplo yment inde xes, o ver two-thirds of the fir ms
repor ted no change in December .
Staffing contacts repor ted little change in the demand for their ser vices and noted little w age pres-
sure. Se veral contacts repor ted that their clients had imposed w age freezes, la yoffs, or cutbacks
on shifts. One contact noted that their fir m had imposed a w age freeze on their ow n emplo yees.
Many firms continued to note that finding skilled wor kers is a critical challenge. Emplo yee reten-
tion has impro ved for most fir ms except those offering less than 14 dollar s an hour (depending on
the location).
Wages inflation continued to rise at a modest p ace—t ypical of its long-r un average. Se veral con-
tacts noted that nominal w age increases of three percent or less w ere planned for 2025 (as much
as five percent including benefits). One contact described a 10 to 15 percent increase for w ages
12
and benefits for the fir st year of a recentl y negotiated union contract. Planned increases would
drop significantl y in subsequent year s.
Prices
On balance, fir ms’ prices continued to rise at a modest p ace. Contacts noted no relief for middle-
and low-income families facing unaffordabl y high prices for houses and motor vehicles; how ever,
many repor ted falling prices for food and fuel.
In our monthl y surveys, the diffusion inde xes for prices p aid and prices recei ved w ere at or abo ve
their nonrecession a verages for nonmanufacturer s and manufacturer s. How ever, several contacts
noted that their input costs had fallen, p articular ly for food commodities and for shipping . They
also credit the dro p in under lying fuel costs for some of the relief.
In December , manufacturer s’ expectations for future price increases o ver the ne xt six months nar-
rowed for prices p aid and broadened for prices recei ved comp ared with the prior month. How ever,
both diffusion inde xes remained more widespread than their nonrecession a verages. Moreo ver,
most contacts from all sector s continued to e xpress caution about the imp act of budget deficits,
tariffs, and immigration policies on future prices.
Manufacturing
Overall, manufacturing acti vity decreased slightl y after increasing modestl y in the prior period. The
indexes for ne w order s and shipments tur ned negati ve in December , and the general acti vity inde x
fell moderatel y.
Manufacturer s’ expectations for growth o ver the ne xt six months nar rowed substantiall y for future
activity, new order s, and shipments. Lik ewise, the inde xes for future emplo yment and capital
expenditures fell. How ever, each of these future acti vity inde xes remained at or abo ve their non-
recession a verage.
Trade and Ser vices
On balance, fir ms across a broad spectr um of nonmanufacturing industries continued to repor t a
slight increase in acti vity. In December , the monthl y inde x for ne w order s remained negati ve, but
the inde xes for general acti vity and sales/re venues remained slightl y positi ve.
Retailer s (nonauto) repor ted a slight increase in real sales—following no change in the prior
period. Low er input costs allow ed restaurants and retail grocer s to low er retail prices and attract
more customer s. Contacts w ere optimistic that the uptick in demand would car ry into 2025.Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia 13
Auto dealer s repor ted a modest increase in motor vehicle sales and that their in ventories w ere
nearing nor mal pre-p andemic le vels. Contacts noted that nor mal le vels also entail nor mal floor
plan costs—nar rowing dealer margins.
Tourism acti vity was flat to up slightl y. Contacts noted that most segments of the tra vel industr y
have nor malized following the disr uptions from the p andemic. Now , the sector’ s demand growth
appear s to ha ve reconnected to the rate of general economic growth. O verall, contacts w ere more
optimistic for 2025.
The share of nonmanufacturer s expecting growth o ver the ne xt six months nar rowed, with the
index edging below its nonrecession a verage.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Brokers repor ted little change in e xisting-home sales but noted a bump up in ne w listings, steady
traffic, and continued offer s despite the holida ys.
Homebuilder s also repor ted no significant change in sales of ne w houses. One contact noted that
December is t ypicall y slow but that 2024 had been a great year—adding that the y entered 2025
with a large backlog of signed contracts and are already looking out one year and be yond.
Philadelphia area contacts described good demand and positi ve sentiment in the o verall commer-
cial real estate mar ket. The retail and industrial segments w ere noted as especiall y strong with
rising rents. Leasing acti vity for ap artments remained resilient; how ever, the “cur rent w ave of ne w
units will tak e year s to digest. ” Contacts noted that the office mar ket was just “mar king time. ”
Commercial real estate contacts repor ted that constr uction acti vity decreased slightl y this period.
The pipeline of commercial projects continues to w ane, and most of the federall y funded public
infrastr ucture projects still aw ait groundbreaking .
Credit Conditions
The volume of bank lending (e xcluding credit cards) held steady for a third consecuti ve period (not
seasonall y adjusted)—w eaker than the moderate growth obser ved during the comp arable periods
in 2022 and 2023.
District banks repor ted modest growth in home equit y lines and slight growth in commercial real
estate lending and home mor tgages. These gains w ere offset b y modest declines in commercial
and industrial loans and in other consumer loans and b y a slight decline in auto loans. Credit card14 The Beige Book
volumes surged following slight growth during the prior period—t ypical for the year-end
holida y season.
Banking contacts continued to repor t sound credit qualit y and relati vely low delinquenc y rates.
One contact noted that rising home values and larger , more frequent pro perty insurance claims are
driving taxes and insurance premiums higher , thereb y triggering more mor tgage delinquencies.
However, in the for mer case, rising home values and the under suppl y of housing mak e it easy for
a delinquent homeow ner to p ay off the debt from the proceeds of a sale.
Contacts throughout the banking sector and the nonprofit communit y continued to w arn that the
high cost of housing and of automobiles fur ther ag gravates credit a vailabilit y issues for low- and
middle-income households.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .philadelphiafed.org/
regional-econom y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia 15
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Cleveland
Summar y of Economic Activity
On balance, business acti vity in the F ourth District gre w modestl y in recent w eeks, and contacts
expected acti vity to increase fur ther in the months ahead. Consumer spending increased moder-
ately, with some retailer s noting higher-than-anticip ated sales. Demand for manufactured goods
remained soft, a situation which some contacts attributed to uncer tainty surrounding potential
policy changes. Emplo yment le vels generall y remained flat. While some manufacturer s repor ted
reducing headcounts because of low demand, some constr uction contacts added staff to suppor t
planned growth. O verall, w ages and nonlabor input costs increased moderatel y, and prices gre w
modestl y.
Labor Mar kets
Contacts repor ted that emplo yment le vels w ere flat o verall in recent w eeks, a trend which is
largel y unchanged from those seen during the pre vious four repor ting periods. Among fir ms
that w ere maintaining flat headcounts, se veral said that the y were full y staffed to meet cur rent
demand, while other s were focused on replacing dep arting wor kers. Man y manufacturer s con-
tinued to repor t reducing headcounts b y eliminating shifts or b y not replacing dep arting wor kers,
often because of decreased order volumes. Still, man y business ser vices and healthcare contacts
noted that the y were hiring to meet increases in demand, while some constr uction and real estate
contacts w ere adding staff to suppor t planned business e xpansions and because of an
anticip ated mar ket reco very. Overall, contacts e xpected modest emplo yment growth in the
months ahead.
Wages increased at a moderate p ace on balance in recent w eeks. Consumer-facing fir ms w ere
among those repor ting continued upw ard pressure on w ages. Some of these fir ms had increased
their hour ly rates to attract entr y-level wor kers, citing strong competition for these emplo yees.
Other contacts in manufacturing and business ser vices also continued to increase p ay to attract
and retain wor kers with specialized skillsets such as machinists or accountants. Still, man y firms
held w ages flat, citing impro ved labor a vailabilit y, slowing inflation, or unchanged demand.
16
Prices
Nonlabor input costs increased moderatel y on balance in recent w eeks. Some constr uction con-
tacts said that their costs ha ve been stable o ver the last t wo months, though t wo contacts
expected materials costs to rise in the months ahead. Contacts across industries continued to
repor t increases in the costs of healthcare benefits and insurance. Man y restaurateur s and food
producer s said that costs w ere increasing for beef, dair y, cacao, and eg gs. O verall, contacts
expected costs to grow moderatel y in the coming months.
Overall, selling prices continued to grow modestl y in recent w eeks, though o ver half of contacts
indicated that the y had held prices steady . Man y business ser vices and constr uction fir ms con-
tinued to repor t raising prices, with se veral doing so based on the mar ket conditions. While some
retailer s said that the y had raised prices, other s offered more discounts to dri ve sales amid
elevated consumer price sensiti vity. Citing softer demand, some manufacturer s noted decreasing
their prices to compete for business.
Consumer Spending
On balance, consumer spending increased moderatel y in recent w eeks after a period of decline
over se veral repor ting periods, and contacts generall y expected sales to increase modestl y in the
coming months. Most repor ts of stronger sales w ere centered on holida y sho pping , and one
grocer noted that “customer s appear[ed] willing to spend more this holida y season. ” Repor ts from
auto dealer s remained mixed. Most dealer s continued to repor t soft demand for ne w and used
vehicles; how ever, two dealer s repor ted une xpected increases in sales. Some auto dealer s were
optimistic about sales in the coming months as loan rates had fallen some what for customer s
with higher credit scores.
Manufacturing
Demand for manufactured goods w as generall y stable after declining for se veral repor ting periods,
and most fir ms repor ted no change in demand. Still, some manufacturer s noted low demand
related to general uncer tainty about potential polic y changes. By contrast, a small number of
repor ts indicated higher order s, a circumstance which some contacts attributed to data center
constr uction and other s to greater o verall confidence in the econom y. Contacts generall y expected
demand to increase modestl y in the coming months, with some noting that client inquiries and
quotations had increased.Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland 17
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential constr uction acti vity increased modestl y in recent w eeks. O ver two-thirds of contacts
said that demand w as unchanged since the prior repor ting period; how ever, two homebuilder s
commented that their consistentl y strong demand w as an impro vement comp ared to the t ypical
year-end lull. A single-famil y homebuilder who repor ted increased acti vity cited more stable mor t-
gage rates and the resolution of uncer tainty regarding the election as factor s suppor ting sales. On
balance, contacts e xpected demand to decrease slightl y in the coming months.
Nonresidential constr uction and real estate contacts repor ted a modest increase in demand o ver
the last t wo months. Contacts attributed this increase to greater cer tainty after the election and
additional cuts to interest rates. One builder obser ved that large projects w ere mo ving forw ard
after pre viousl y being on hold. Commercial constr uction and real estate contacts anticip ated mod-
estly increased demand in the months ahead.
Financial Ser vices
On balance, bank ers indicated that loan demand rose modestl y since the last repor ting period.
One bank er said that consumer demand for credit increased, while another said that low er interest
rates and the end of election uncer tainty increased demand for credit among businesses. Looking
ahead, bank ers anticip ated that loan demand would increase fur ther, an e xpectation which one
attributed to continued impro vement in consumer confidence. Delinquenc y rates w ere relati vely
unchanged from the last repor ting period, while core deposits gre w slightl y in recent w eeks.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Professional and business ser vices fir ms indicated that acti vity increased modestl y in recent
weeks and anticip ated that demand would increase strongl y in the coming months. How ever, two
contacts mentioned that some clients held off on ne w projects because of uncer tainty surrounding
the future of federal and state polic y decisions. F reight contacts repor ted an increase in acti vity
comp ared to that in the last repor ting period, though se veral contacts noted that freight volumes
remain low . Contacts e xpected demand to be largel y flat o ver the ne xt couple of months.
Community Conditions
Workers and jobseek ers responded to a District sur vey about their recent labor mar ket experi-
ences. W orkers across all education le vels indicated that their most impor tant reason for being
emplo yed w as access to benefits such as health insurance, while their second most impor tant
reason w as wages. Roughl y 20 percent of wor kers repor ted ha ving multiple jobs; man y of these
multiple jobholder s were engaged in gig wor k because of the fle xible scheduling . Over the ne xt18 The Beige Book
three months, most emplo yed respondents indicated that the y were unlik ely to search for jobs,
accept a different job, or sto p wor king altogether . Respondents noted challenges in finding jobs
that offer benefits and pro vide w ages high enough to co ver living e xpenses.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .clevelandfed.org/en/
region/regional-anal ysis.Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland 19
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Richmond
Summar y of Economic Activity
The F ifth District econom y grew modestl y since our pre vious repor t. Consumer spending on retail,
travel, and tourism increased moderatel y to end the year . Nonfinancial ser vices fir ms repor ted no
change in re venues amid subdued demand while financial ser vice pro viders saw a modest
increase in loan demand. Manufacturing acti vity slow ed slightl y. Firms across a variet y of sector s
voiced concer ns and uncer tainties around tariffs, por t worker strik es, and general economic condi-
tions mo ving into the ne w year . Residential real estate e xperienced a t ypical seasonal slowdow n
while commercial real estate acti vity pick ed up slightl y. Emplo yment le vels w ere unchanged, on
balance. Prices gre w moderatel y in recent w eeks.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment in the F ifth District, on net, w as unchanged in the most recent period. Some contacts
continued to repor t challenges with labor a vailabilit y. For example, an engineering consultant com-
mented that the y would hire fi ve emplo yees right now if the y could find qualified candidates.
Despite some labor a vailabilit y issues, contacts generall y expected w age increases to retur n to
normal in the coming year . A pet groomer planned to scale back emplo yee benefits to realign total
direct labor costs to pre-p andemic le vels. A technolog y-focused recr uiter remar ked that se veral
candidates w ere not able to land a job due to outdated skills and/ or AI has led to fe wer job o pen-
ings in their fields. F or man y of these wor kers, the y expect the candidates will need to accept
lower wages to find wor k.
Prices
On balance, year-o ver-year prices gre w at a moderate rate. According to our most recent sur veys,
prices recei ved b y nonmanufacturing fir ms gre w moderatel y while manufacturing fir ms continued
to repor t modest price growth just below t wo percent. F irms’ expectations for price growth a year
from now increased. Manufacturer s expected prices to rise at a faster rate a year from now com-
pared to nonmanufacturer s, with se veral citing tariffs on inputs as a reason for higher e xpected
price growth in the future.
20
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity in the F ifth District declined slightl y in the most recent repor ting period. Se v-
eral contacts repor ted declines in ne w order s due to consumer pushback on prices. A premium
wine manufacturer repor ted that consumer s were opting for less e xpensi ve brands. A te xtile manu-
facturer rela yed that customer s reduced spending on big-tick et items despite inflation receding ,
noting that price le vels w ere up considerabl y comp ared to 2019. A boat manufacturer cited high
borrowing rates and consumer spending squeezes leading to declines in ne w sales. A fe w con-
tacts repor ted increases in ne w order s, especiall y in areas with growing po pulations. A
North Carolina based cabinet manufacturer repor ted increased ne w order s due to needs for ne w
office sp ace.
Ports and T ranspor tation
Recent repor ts on impor t cargo volumes varied across the F ifth District with some por ts seeing
slight increases and other s repor ting slight decreases. Impor ts of assembled vehicles dro pped b y
almost half at one por t while another por t saw a moderate increase in auto p arts. Multiple por ts
noted a significant decrease in p aper w aste products e xported to East Asia. P orts attributed lack-
luster cargo volumes to US big-box retailer s cautiousl y rerouting to the W est Coast in advance of
disruptions if contract negotiations with the Inter national Longshoreman Association are not
settled in Januar y. Some customer s have begun repositioning empt y container s and rail cargo to
the W est Coast at e xtra cost. P orts also described a w eakening demand en vironment pushing spot
prices dow n even from Asia to the W est Coast. The rising cost of union and non-union labor is a
significant concer n for por ts. One por t implemented an eight percent labor surcharge on their base
rate with increases e xpected in the ne w year , while other s have introduced ne w incenti ve str uc-
tures for their non-union emplo yees.
Trucking contacts noted flat volumes this c ycle and disappointing retail peak which continued what
they described as a per sistent freight recession this year . A larger fir m cited difficult y in balancing
the risk of losing mar ket share o ver small price increases on contracts. The same fir m also
shared that sk yrocketing insurance premiums led them to tak e on more financial risk and qua-
druple their deductible.
Retail, Travel, and T ourism
Consumer spending gre w moderatel y in recent w eeks. Retailer s repor ted increases in sales and
shopper traffic during the holida y sho pping season. Man y retail businesses e xpressed concer ns
about the ne xt several months due to uncer tainties around a potential por t worker strik e and tar-
iffs affecting their abilit y to get products and the prices the y will ha ve to p ay for them. A couple of
businesses ser ving the District of Columbia mar ket said that the y could see an increase in salesFederal Reser ve Bank of Richmond 21
and acti vity in the coming months if more go vernment wor kers retur n to wor king in the office. F ood
service and hotel contacts repor ted a strong end of the year . Contacts in W ester n Nor th Carolina,
however, said that acti vity was much softer than usual because the area w as still dealing with the
aftermath of Hur ricane Helene.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Overall, residential real estate acti vity slow ed slightl y as e xpected for the winter season, although
agents in V irginia and South Carolina saw an increase in homes sales listed o ver one million dol-
lars. Buyer s continue to ha ve no issues qualifying for loans but are challenged with limited in ven-
tory and mor tgage rates. Almost e very agent mentioned their o ptimism for 2025 and the chatter
that seller s are w anting to sell. Multiple contacts, how ever, voiced concer ns about imp acts from
potential polic y shifts on go vernment wor kers, immigration, and tariffs.
Commercial real estate acti vity had a slight uptick as buyer s and seller s wor ked to close out deals
before year end. V acanc y rates remained low in industrial and retail sp ace while rate for low er-
grade office sp ace remained ele vated. Multiple agents mentioned constr uction projects w ere fin-
ishing up, but that fe w new projects w ere being star ted because high constr uction costs mean
that projects don ’t “pencil out. ” Agents in V irginia and Mar yland noted an increase in rental rates
as pro perties w ere becoming “tur n-key” with vir tually no concessions.
Hurricane Helene continued to imp act residential and commercial real estate mar kets. A
North Carolina agent noted Ashe ville is finall y star ting to see mar ket acti vity while the areas
around Boone w ere not. An agent in the Ashe ville mar ket noted vacancies in industrial and retail
were dro pping as displaced business wor ked to reo pen. Office vacancies in the area w ere also
quickl y dropping as go vernment agencies and national engineering fir ms mobilize in the area.
Banking and F inance
Financial institutions continued to repor t a modest increase in loan demand with man y noting
this acti vity was coming from their consumer lending por tfolios, including real estate and autos.
Commercial lending , mainl y in real estate secured loans, also saw modest increases in demand.
Customer s were still showing some restraint due to the cur rent uncer tain economic en vironment.
Loan delinquenc y levels continued to show modest increases, with the most increases arising
from consumer loan por tfolios. Deposit le vels continued to remain stable, how ever, competition
for these balances appear to be easing as rates ha ve star ted to low er throughout the
marketplace.22 The Beige Book
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Nonfinancial ser vices pro viders repor ted subdued demand for their ser vices and flat re venues. An
engineering fir m repor ted that there is a continued reluctance for clients to mo ve forw ard on proj-
ects, while a digital ser vices fir m, as w ell as other respondents, echoed a similar sentiment with
an obser vation that clients are reducing budgets for the coming year . An IT fir m repor ted that the y
have been holding onto staff in ho pes of an impro vement in conditions, but the y may have to mak e
tough decisions if demand for their ser vices doesn ’t stay the same or increase into the ne w year .
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .richmondfed.org/
research/data_anal ysis.Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond 23
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Atlanta
Summar y of Economic Activity
The Sixth District econom y grew modestl y since mid-No vember . Emplo yment remained steady , with
many firms repor ting plans to hold emplo yment le vels flat in 2025. W ages, input costs and prices
rose modestl y, and fir ms’ pricing pow er was mixed. Consumer spending and tra vel and tourism
activity expanded moderatel y, and auto sales w ere strong . Home sales increased modestl y, and
existing home in ventories impro ved. Demand for transpor tation ser vices rose slightl y. Manufac-
turing acti vity continued to decline. Loan growth w as moderate. Energ y acti vity increased, but agri-
culture demand declined.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment w as little changed in recent w eeks, as fir ms held headcounts steady . Man y contacts
plan to k eep staffing le vels flat into 2025, although some e xpect to reduce headcount slightl y,
largel y through attrition. A fe w repor ted the y may need to pur sue la yoffs if demand softens. How-
ever, there w ere a fe w repor ts of hiring for growth. F irms continued to repor t ample a vailabilit y of
labor, which most contacts e xpect will continue in the coming months.
Contacts repor ted modest w age growth. Most said e xpectations for 2025 w age increases w ere
roughl y in line with pre-p andemic growth rates, and similar to or slightl y below those obser ved in
2024. Easing w age inflation w as particular ly notable among white-collar wor kers. Onl y a minorit y
of contacts noted continued ele vated w age pressures for some roles such as frontline wor kers,
union emplo yees, or skilled roles that are difficult to fill.
Prices
Input costs and prices increased modestl y over the repor ting period. Insurance and labor
remained the princip al cost concer ns for fir ms. While some contacts repor ted a slight moderation
in insurance cost increases, e ven relati vely modest increases in insurance costs created cost
pressures for fir ms. On the health insurance side, man y emplo yers planned to p ass on cost
increases to emplo yees, but increases in other t ypes of insurance w ere lik ely to be p assed
through to final prices. F ood and shipping costs w ere described as generall y stable. F irms pointed
24
to diversified suppl y chains as a potential buffer to pro posed tariffs. Pricing pow er was mixed, with
firms utilizing targeted discounting to maintain demand.
Consumer Spending and T ourism
Consumer spending gre w moderatel y in recent w eeks. Retailer s repor ted strong holida y sales,
which w ere characterized as better than e xpected. Buyer s of luxur y goods, in p articular , continued
to spend. Contacts said promotions remained effecti ve, and customer s looking for deals w ere
willing to spend if the price w as right. Spending on enter tainment rose from an already strong
level, as contacts repor ted pla ys and concer ts were sold out. There w as some softness in quick
service restaurants, as tick et sizes shrank, or customer s opted for value meals, while middle- and
higher-end restaurants saw solid demand. Auto sales w ere strong , with in ventories and da ys on
the lot declining .
Travel and tourism acti vity increased at a moderate p ace in recent w eeks. Man y industr y contacts
repor ted stronger holida y travel than last year . Some hotels noted room rates w ere dow n slightl y,
but man y repor ted strong bookings and increased re venue. Cr uising acti vity, as w ell as business
and group tra vel, remained strong .
Constr uction and Real Estate
In spite of ele vated mor tgage interest rates and home prices, housing sales increased modestl y
over the repor ting period. With some e xceptions, e xisting home suppl y impro ved significantl y
throughout the District. Homebuilder s continued to offer incenti ves and discounts to offset higher
mortgage interest rates. Builder s also slow ed the p ace of speculati ve inventor y star ts to allow
existing in ventor y to be absorbed, in an effor t to pre vent an in ventor y buildup of ne w homes.
Commercial real estate (CRE) conditions remained mixed. With the aid of concessions, multifamil y
demand continued to increase, how ever, already ele vated vacanc y rates rose fur ther. Contacts
repor ted growing concer n in a stable but slowing industrial sector . Non-bank lender s noted greater
amounts of CRE loan delinquencies. The number of banks retur ning to the CRE lending mar ket
rose, but rising long-ter m rates and CRE loan maturities continued to create challenges for all
lender t ypes.
Transpor tation
Transpor tation acti vity grew slightl y, on balance, since the pre vious repor t. Shor t-line railroad vol-
umes w ere described as flat; how ever, Class I railroads saw solid increases in inter modal freight
and total traffic. Some logistics contacts noted relati vely stable volumes and flat re venues. T ruck-
load ser vice pro viders repor ted subdued peak season volumes and flat o verall van cargo, but anFederal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta 25
uptick in industrial freight. Inland w aterw ay freight acti vity pick ed up. District por ts repor ted con-
tinued increases in container volumes and roll-on/roll-off cargo. How ever, the potential for an east
coast por t strik e remains a dow nside risk. T ranspor tation contacts noted uncer tainty over future
trade polic y, the regulator y environment, and insurance costs.
Manufacturing
With some e xceptions, o verall manufacturing acti vity continued to decline modestl y. According to
the Atlanta F ed’s Business Inflation Ex pectations Manufacturing Sector Repor t, more than t wo-
thirds of respondents stated that demand remained the same or had declined o ver the p ast
twelve months. F irms facing low er demand repor ted adjusting b y eliminating o pen positions and/ or
laying off staff and reducing hour s. Firms with impro ved demand increased cap acity, prices, and
capital in vestments. Risks to the outlook included labor shor tages, concer ns over tariffs, and
potential suppl y chain disr uptions at east coast por ts that would result from a labor strik e.
Banking and F inance
Sixth District financial institutions e xperienced moderate loan growth, dri ven b y increases in multi-
family loans and fir st-lien mor tgages. Constr uction, land de velopment loans, and auto loans con-
tracted modestl y; all other major loan categories increased moderatel y. Asset qualit y remained
stable with low le vels of nonperfor ming loans as a percentage of total loans. Both deposit bal-
ances and bor rowings b y banks increased, as loan-to -deposit ratios fell amid rising loan growth.
Cash balances gre w, outp acing asset growth.
Energ y
Energ y acti vity grew modestl y, on net, o ver the repor ting period. Rising demand w as largel y driven
by data center growth across the U.S. Utilit y contacts noted that near-ter m demand will be met
with a combination of natural gas, rene wables, batter y energ y storage systems, and potentiall y
keeping coal plants r unning longer than anticip ated. Global demand for liquefied natural gas (LNG)
remained strong , thus regional e xporters operated near cap acity and contacts described rene wed
interest in LNG e xport plant de velopment. Gulf of Me xico deepw ater oil and gas production proj-
ects continued to ramp up, a trend that is e xpected to continue into 2025.
Agriculture
Demand for agricultural products declined modestl y over the repor ting period. Cattle and beef
prices remained historicall y strong amid limited suppl y but declined some what from recent highs.
Demand for row cro ps declined fur ther. Domestic demand for dair y was little changed, but global
demand softened, resulting in low er prices in recent w eeks. How ever, seasonal demand and26 The Beige Book
suppl y constraints from ne w cases of a vian flu dro ve up the price of table eg gs. Demand for
poultr y was steady , while demand for timber remained low . Man y southeaster n farmers struggled
to rebuild after hur ricanes.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .atlantafed.org/
econom y-matter s/regional-economics .Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta 27
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Chicago
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Se venth District increased slightl y overall o ver the repor ting period and
contacts e xpected a similar increase o ver the ne xt year . Consumer spending rose modestl y;
emplo yment increased slightl y; constr uction and real estate w as flat; nonbusiness contacts saw
little change in acti vity; and manufacturing and business spending decreased slightl y. Prices
increased modestl y, wages rose moderatel y, and financial conditions loosened some. F arm
incomes in 2024 w ere below those of 2023.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment increased slightl y over the repor ting period and contacts e xpected growth to continue
at a similar p ace o ver the ne xt 12 months.Some contacts continued to mention difficult y finding
higher-skilled wor kers. How ever, there w ere also signs of softening in the labor mar ket. One
machiner y manufacturer noted that labor had been easier to source recentl y, in part because
nearb y competitor s were reducing hour s or instituting la yoffs. A fabricated metals manufacturer
also said it w as easier to hire and noted that absenteeism w as dow n, while another planned to la y
off some non-production wor kers should demand not pick up in the ne xt few months. A retail con-
tact noted that comp ared with last holida y season, stores w ere open about the same number of
hours but hired fe wer temporar y wor kers and relied on e xisting staff to wor k more hour s. Wages
and benefits costs continued to rise moderatel y overall. Man y contacts repor ted an increase in
health insurance costs as ne w plans tak e effect in the ne w year .
Prices
Prices increased modestl y overall in late No vember and December , and contacts e xpected a
similar rate of increase o ver the ne xt 12 months. Producer prices mo ved up slightl y. Nonlabor
input costs edged up, dri ven b y increases in energ y and o verall shipping costs (tr uck freight rates
were dow n). While most contacts repor ted some increases in raw materials prices o ver the last
year, some highlighted flat or low er prices for cer tain inputs. Consumer prices again rose modestl y
overall. A retail contact indicated that the y had not seen an y anticip atory price changes in
response to the potential for higher tariffs.
28
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending increased modestl y over the repor ting period. Nonauto retail sales w ere up
modestl y and close to e xpectations. App arel, lapto ps, home enter tainment electronics, and je w-
elry all show ed strong sales growth. Retailer s indicated that promotional offerings w ere similar to
last year and that full-price sales w ere greater than e xpected. Leisure and hospitalit y spending
ticked up, boosted b y greater demand for air tra vel and at fast casual restaurants. Both ne w and
used light vehicle sales rose slightl y, as did leasing acti vity. Subcomp act and comp act vehicles
continued to gain mar ket share, though at a slow er pace as e xcess in ventories of mid- and full-
size vehicles led to larger incenti ves on these alter natives. Contacts also repor ted a bump in elec-
tric vehicle sales.
Business Spending
Business spending decreased slightl y in No vember and ear ly December . Capital e xpenditures w ere
down some, though e xpectations for spending o ver the ne xt year mo ved up. Demand for tr uck
transpor tation fell fur ther, contributing to low er truck freight rates. In ventories at both nonauto
retailer s and auto dealer s were comfor table o verall, while manufacturing in ventories w ere slightl y
elevated. There w ere fe w mentions of materials shor tages, though se veral contacts again noted
long lead times for pow er suppl y equipment.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction and real estate demand w as unchanged o ver the repor ting period. Residential con-
struction w as stable and demand for home reno vation projects remained soft. The size of reno va-
tion projects continued to shrink. Residential real estate acti vity decreased slightl y, held back b y
the recent rise in mor tgage rates and ongoing tight in ventor y levels. Prices w ere unchanged, while
rents increased slightl y. Nonresidential constr uction acti vity was flat o verall, though project pricing
increased modestl y in recent w eeks. Commercial real estate acti vity was unchanged, as w ere
prices, rents, and vacanc y rates.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing demand decreased slightl y in late No vember and December and se veral manufac-
turers expected Januar y and F ebruary orderbooks to continue to be soft. Demand for steel w as at
a low le vel as sales to the constr uction and machiner y sector s remained subdued. Sales of steel
for rene wable energ y products w ere a bright spot in 2024 but slow ed tow ard the end the year . Fab-
ricated metals sales decreased modestl y overall, though there w ere repor ts of increased demand
from the medical equipment industr y. Machiner y order s edged dow n, with se veral contacts notingFederal Reser ve Bank of Chicago 29
decreases from the automoti ve industr y. Auto production slow ed some, while demand for hea vy
trucks rose.
Banking and F inance
Financial conditions loosened slightl y in late No vember and December . Bond values tick ed dow n,
while equities w ere flat. V olatilit y was unchanged on net o ver the repor ting period, though there
was a large spik e in mid-December . Business loan demand rose modestl y, with se veral contacts
noting increased M&A acti vity. Business loan qualit y remained flat on balance, though one contact
noted deterioration among manufacturer s. Business loan rates fell slightl y and ter ms w ere again
unchanged. Consumer loan demand increased slightl y, while loan qualit y decreased some. Con-
sumer loan rates edged dow n and ter ms loosened a bit.
Agriculture
Seventh District far m income for 2024 w as dow n from 2023, despite stronger-than-e xpected cor n
and so ybean yields. Comp ared with an a verage year , income w as about a verage for agriculture
operations o verall, but low for cro p farmers. Contacts e xpected a fur ther decline in income in
2025, with o verall input costs e xpected to be roughl y unchanged and product prices e xpected to
be flat or dow n. Prices for cor n, cattle, and cheese increased o ver the repor ting period, while
prices for so ybeans, wheat, and dair y were flat. Hog prices declined. Eg g prices jumped along with
flock liquidations due to a vian influenza, and there w ere concer ns about a vian flu spreading
beyond the poultr y sector . Slow far m equipment sales led manufacturer s to offer s of interest-free
payment plans to entice bor rowers. Contacts e xpected that smaller margins in 2024 and 2025
would require man y farmers to bor row more; the y also indicated that man y loans made three to
five year s ago will soon reprice to higher interest rates. The far m sector will recei ve additional p ay-
ments from the federal go vernment to help co ver disaster losses and low er product prices.
Community Conditions
Communit y, nonprofit, and small business contacts saw little change in economic conditions o ver
the repor ting period. Contacts w ere less lik ely to mention inflation than in prior periods, and more
likely to mention softening in the labor mar ket. State go vernment officials saw mixed growth in tax
revenues. Concer ns around the lack of suppl y of affordable housing remained to p of mind for com-
munit y contacts, especiall y in the District’ s smaller mar kets, with some obser ving increases in
homelessness and “couch-ho pping .” While nonprofit contacts repor ted health y year-end donations,
they also noted significant increases in o perating costs, especiall y for insurance, and per sistent
high demand for their ser vices. Higher costs led some nonprofits to close, lea ving other s to fill the
gap b y increasing effor ts to find ne w sources of funding and suppor t.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://chicagofed.org/cfsec .30 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
St. Louis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity across the Eighth District has continued to e xpand slightl y since our pre vious
repor t. Imp acts from the se vere w eather affecting the District beginning around Januar y 5 w ere not
captured in this repor t. Emplo yment w as unchanged and contacts w ere satisfied with their emplo y-
ment le vels. Prices continued to increase moderatel y. Contacts continued to e xpress inflationar y
concer ns related to potential impor t tariffs or suppl y chain disr uptions from a dockwor ker strik e.
Repor ts on holida y sales w ere positi ve and generall y better than e xpected. Repor ts from other
sector s reflected the t ypical seasonal slowdow n. Man y of these contacts shared a positi ve outlook
for the year ahead.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. A retailer repor ted that the y were
fully staffed with a seasonal wor kforce. A manufacturing contact repor ted that, while the y con-
tinued to hire wor kers, overall emplo yment le vels w ere unchanged due to emplo yee tur nover. An
engineering fir m repor ted ongoing challenges hiring skilled wor kers in constr uction. A Memphis
area contact repor ted that generati ve AI technolog y will “shape their wor kforce” in the coming
year: They are looking to ne w technologies to help e xisting emplo yees and e xpect ne w hires will be
prepared to use these technologies. A human resources comp any said that the y expect their cli-
ents will e xperience an uptick in hiring during the fir st quar ter.
Wages ha ve increased at a moderate p ace since our pre vious repor t. Contacts generall y expected
wages to continue increasing at a similar p ace in upcoming months, t ypicall y between three per-
cent and four percent from the same period one year ago. A professional ser vices fir m repor ted
wage increases w ere about the same as one year ago. A manufacturing contact repor ted that
wage growth remained as strong as it has been o ver the p ast fe w year s. One contact repor ted
they will increase the number of p art-time emplo yees to better manage their labor costs.
Prices
Prices ha ve increased moderatel y since our pre vious repor t. Contacts repor ted the price of eg gs
has risen shar ply with the rise of bird flu cases. A constr uction contact repor ted that costs of
31
lumber and steel ha ve stabilized. Contacts repor ted the price of tr ucks and used vehicles has
increased o ver the p ast fe w months. A professional ser vices fir m repor ted the y continued to
increase prices to customer s; how ever, price increases w ere less than one year ago because w age
growth had moderated and the y risk ed losing cer tain clients from fur ther price increases. A retailer
repor ted no major pushback on higher prices for seasonal items. Contacts across multiple sector s
anticip ate supplier s will announce price increases at some point in Januar y.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending has moderatel y increased since our pre vious repor t, with contacts repor ting
health y holida y sales. Retailer s indicated that December holida y sales w ere much stronger than in
previous year s, with a late Thanksgi ving and c yber-Monda y falling in December . A consumer elec-
tronics retailer repor ted steady holida y sales. A retailer with multiple locations noted sur prisingl y
strong holida y sales and foot traffic at their sho pping mall location. A law n and garden contact
repor ted that 2024 sales had met e xpectations but that a notable rise in credit card transactions
was a concer n, as it ma y indicate consumer s are financiall y stretched. A home-fur nishings retailer
repor ted a ten percent increase in sales relati ve to one year ago, with an uptick in rent-to -own
financing .
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity has impro ved slightl y since our pre vious repor t. Contacts e xpressed con-
cern about discussions related to tariffs and the possibilit y of a dockwor ker strik e. As a result,
those with o verseas suppl y chains ha ve been negotiating e xpedited deli veries. Contacts also
expressed concer n about the future of recent in vestments in electric vehicle and batter y plants
projects across the District.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Activity in the nonfinancial ser vices sector has remained unchanged, on balance, since our pre-
vious repor t. Rural hospital contacts repor ted ongoing challenges around reduced reimbur sements
and anticip ated reduction in ser vices to control costs. A human resources consulting fir m repor ted
that o verall re venue and profitabilit y ended 2024 higher than in 2023. A professional ser vices fir m
noted that total re venue and re venue per client ha ve increased in recent months. An insurance
solutions fir m repor ted that higher premiums ha ve caused clients to reduce their co verage but
their profits ha ve been maintained.32 The Beige Book
Real Estate and Constr uction
Seasonall y adjusted home sales ha ve remained flat since our pre vious repor t, with transaction vol-
umes and in ventories declining due to nor mal seasonal p atterns. A contact in Nor thwest Ar kansas
repor ted that customer s are increasingl y relying on home equit y and remodeling rather than pur-
chasing a different home. The o ptimistic outlook among contacts w as closel y tied to their e xpecta-
tion that mor tgage rates will decline in 2025; how ever, man y expect onl y a slight decline in mor t-
gage rates, which will result in a continuation of the cur rent trend of w eak but impro ving
home sales.
Commercial real estate acti vity has been generall y unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Contacts
attributed an y slowing in acti vity to seasonal factor s related to the holida ys, with demand e xpected
to rebound to nor mal le vels throughout the fir st quar ter. Business contacts looking to e xpand or
impro ve office sp ace repor ted “stick er shock” from contractor s’ estimates, which is causing them
to scale back initial plans.
Banking and F inance
Banking conditions ha ve been generall y unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Contacts repor ted a
moderate increase in the demand for ne w loans heading into the holida y season. The o verall cost
of funding has risen due to increased competition for deposits. The volume of p ast-due loans has
stabilized after increasing modestl y over the p ast year . A pri vate in vestment comp any repor ted a
significant uptick in ne w leads for 2025, although the cost of capital ma y be too high to pur sue
many of these o pportunities. Banking contacts repor ted an uptick in demand for commercial real
estate loans.
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Agriculture conditions ha ve been unchanged since our pre vious repor t and remain historicall y
weak. With the 2024 row cro p cycle complete, producer s repor ted limited profits as strong yields
were unable to offset low er prices and higher input costs. Ne w farm equipment sales remain
weak. Contacts e xpect conditions to continue to deteriorate in the upcoming months. Banking con-
tacts e xpect a slight decline in far mland values o ver the ne xt 12 months. Contacts in Ar kansas
pointed to lithium e xtraction o pportunities as a bright spot for r ural de velopment that could sup -
port higher land values.Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis 33
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Minneapolis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Ninth District economic acti vity increased slightl y since the pre vious repor t. Emplo yment gre w
slightl y and w age growth w as moderate, while labor demand w as positi ve but slowing . Overall
prices increased slightl y. Growth w as noted in consumer spending , constr uction, and residential
real estate. Energ y acti vity was flat, while manufacturing decreased. Agricultural conditions
remained w eak. Acti vity among minorit y- and women-ow ned business enter prises w as low er
on balance.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment gre w slightl y since the last repor t. Sur veys and indi vidual contacts sug gested that
labor demand remained positi ve but also continued to slow , especiall y for cer tain sector s. Hiring
in health care, constr uction, and finance remained health y. How ever, staffing contacts mostl y
repor ted that clients w ere not hiring , particular ly in manufacturing . “Order s are dow n, there’ s no
way to sugarcoat it, ” said a contact in Michigan ’s Upper P eninsula (U.P .). Emplo yers widel y
repor ted that labor a vailabilit y continued to impro ve and felt “more nor mal,” according to one
source. Some staffing contacts repor ted that there w ere more candidates than jobs, a flip -flop of
earlier labor conditions. Other s noted impro vements in job candidates ’ reliabilit y. A Minnesota mall
contact repor ted that holida y labor needs “seem to be less of a challenge this year than the p ast
few year s. I can ’t think of one retail tenant that is or w as concer ned with staffing .”
Wage growth w as moderate. Monthl y survey respondents repor ted w age growth roughl y on p ar with
recent months, but slightl y lower than the fir st half of the year . Wage growth w as stronger among
constr uction and finance contacts, but low er for job order s at staffing fir ms due to sag ging
demand. A South Dak ota retail contact repor ted that the rate of w age increase “has slow ed and
has been relati vely flat for se veral months now ,” but it w as still comp aratively high and cutting into
profitabilit y.
Prices
Overall prices increased slightl y since the pre vious repor t. Preliminar y results from a District busi-
ness conditions sur vey indicated a modest uptick on balance in prices charged to customer s in
34
December from the month prior , though t wo-thirds of fir ms repor ted no change. In contrast, about
40 percent of fir ms repor ted an increase in nonlabor input prices for the month. The wholesale
prices component of a regional manufacturing inde x tick ed up slightl y in December to a moderate
overall le vel. Respondents to a constr uction sur vey continued to repor t that inflation w as a
problem, but the y also indicated that prices w ere nonetheless moderating at the wholesale and
retail le vel comp ared with last year . An alcoholic be verage retailer said that supplier s were clearing
inventories b y offering deep end-of-year discounts, which the y passed along to customer s. Retail
fuel prices w ere roughl y flat since the last repor t in most of the District e xcept for Montana, where
they fell moderatel y. Prices recei ved b y farmers increased in No vember from a year ear lier for
sugar beets, chick ens, eg gs, milk, hogs, and cattle; prices decreased from a year ear lier for cor n,
soybeans, wheat, bar ley, potatoes, canola, lentils, ha y, and tur keys.
Worker Experience
Workforce de velopment contacts across the District repor ted a slight softening in job o penings but
noted that demand remained robust for some health care and constr uction jobs. Contacts high-
lighted ongoing challenges matching a vailable talent to those high-demand occup ations. Midcareer
job seek ers looking for management o pportunities str uggled, because those jobs w ere scarce. A
union contact said that hiring commercial dri vers, mechanics, and law enforcement professionals
in some areas of the U.P . was a “per petual str uggle.” The y added that public emplo yees k ept
“moving backw ards,” facing stagnant w ages and a higher cost of li ving.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending gre w modestl y. Retail contacts w ere generall y upbeat about holida y sales.
Stores repor ted strong crowds, with some seeing sales sur pass pre-p andemic le vels for the fir st
time. One Minnesota mall contact e xpected sales increases from three percent to fi ve percent
over last year . Another Minnesota contact said that “traffic is up and a lot of peo ple [are] car rying
bags. ” Some restaurants in Minneapolis-St. P aul repor ted slow holida y event bookings and low er
overall sales. Sentiment among retailer s in South Dak ota w as also some what softer , and a source
there noted a sp ate of recent restaurant and bre wery closings. Some contacts noted health y con-
sumer spending , but also e xpressed caution regarding rising consumer debt, p articular ly among
middle- and low-income households. Hotel occup ancy softened across the District, though Wis-
consin o perator s saw decent gains. V ehicle sales w ere flat o verall, with higher sales of ne w
vehicles but low er sales among used vehicles.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction gre w slightl y overall since the last repor t. Industr y data sug gested that project
activity increased some what, and contacts o verall repor ted slightl y higher acti vity in December
comp ared with a month ear lier. Recent per mitting acti vity in the District’ s larger mar kets w asFederal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis 35
mostl y lower for commercial projects, and flat-but-mixed o verall for single- and multifamil y acti vity.
Recent sur veys show ed a notable uptick in the sector’ s near-ter m outlook, but some contacts
noted that o ptimism has not yet translated to increased acti vity. A Wisconsin architecture and
design fir m contact said that “there is so much uncer tainty . . . that I ha ve heard would-be de vel-
opers say they will ha ve to w ait before mo ving forw ard.”
Commercial real estate fell slightl y. Office sp ace w as still widel y lower across most District mar-
kets. Industrial sp ace continued to soften some what, with increased subleasing in some mar kets,
but conditions w ere still considered health y. Multifamil y vacanc y rates tick ed higher . Retail con-
tinued to perfor m well in man y mar kets, buo yed b y strong holida y foot traffic and tight vacanc y
rates. Residential real estate w as widel y higher . A large majorit y of mar kets saw growth in recent
home sales year o ver year , including strong , double-digit increases in Montana mar kets.
Manufacturing
Activity in manufacturing decreased moderatel y in the District since the pre vious repor t. Prelimi-
nary results from an annual sur vey of manufacturer s indicated a contraction in 2024 from the pre-
vious year . Manufacturer s responding to a monthl y business sur vey repor ted order s decreased in
December from the pre vious month, and more than 20 percent repor ted large reductions. A metal
fabricator repor ted that incoming order volumes w ere “falling dramaticall y comp ared to the p ast
six months, which w ere themselves dow n significantl y from last year .” In contrast, another inde x of
regional manufacturing conditions found acti vity increased in Minnesota and Nor th Dak ota in
December relati ve to the pre vious month, while acti vity in South Dak ota decreased.
Agriculture Energ y and Natural Resources
District agricultural conditions remained w eak. An o verwhelming majorit y of contacts repor ted that
farm incomes fell in the four th quar ter from a year ear lier due to low cro p prices. Li vestock pro -
ducer s continued to outperfor m cro p producer s. District oil and gas e xploration acti vity was steady
since the pre vious repor t.
Minority- and W omen-Owned Business Enter prises
Activity among minorit y- and women-ow ned business enter prises w as low er on balance o ver the
month. Some categorized the slowdow n as “nor mal seasonal changes. ” About one in fi ve contacts
experienced slightl y higher labor costs, while one in three p aid more for other inputs in the last
four w eeks. Staffing le vels w ere slightl y lower on balance, and labor demand w as mostl y
unchanged.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .minneapolisfed.org/
region-and-communit y.36 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Kansas City
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity expanded slightl y in the T enth District, led b y consumer spending on both goods
and ser vices. Contacts indicated consumer s are increasingl y using longer-ter m financing and con-
solidating debt to manage household cash flows and suppor t ongoing spending . Growth in con-
sumer spending suppor ted modest hiring acti vity concentrated in ser vice sector s. Similar ly, prices
rose at a modest p ace o verall but rose faster among consumer-oriented businesses. Contacts
broadl y repor ted expectations that growth and hiring will accelerate in coming months, dri ven b y
faster consumer spending , growth in manufacturing demand and rising constr uction acti vity. Con-
tacts also noted se veral risks to their fa vorable outlooks. Agriculture and leisure and hospitalit y
businesses highlighted risks to their cap acity that could arise from potential changes in immigra-
tion polic y. Professional ser vice sector s with large technolog y outla ys expressed concer ns about
sourcing equipment amid potential tariffs and are already adjusting in ventories.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels gre w slightl y over the p ast month and business contacts e xpected faster job
growth ear ly in the ne w year . Recent hiring acti vity was concentrated in ser vices sector s, and
wages for ser vice wor kers continued to grow at a moderate p ace. While hiring and w age growth
were subdued in manufacturing , contacts shared the fa vorable emplo yment outlook. District fir ms
repor ted limited reliance on immigrant labor in general, but contacts in select industries and
regions e xpressed concer ns that potential immigration polic y changes could e xacerbate already
tight labor mar ket conditions b y limiting the suppl y of labor . Food manufacturing and agricultural
contacts in Kansas and Nebraska indicated restrictions on temporar y migrant labor could lead to
significant suppl y constraints. Similar ly, leisure and hospitalit y contacts in Colorado sug gested
immigration restrictions could e xacerbate labor shor tages in tow ns near resor t communities. T ech-
nolog y industr y contacts e xpressed additional concer ns sur rounding the abilit y to emplo y overseas
technolog y wor kers if offshoring policies w ere to shift.
Prices
Prices continued to grow slowl y over the last month, dri ven b y consumer goods and ser vices
prices. Contacts noted automobile prices rose moderatel y due to the combination of rising costs
of sourcing vehicles and pent-up demand. As consumer s were holding onto their car s longer ,
37
dealer s had to p ay more to find and transpor t used car in ventor y. While recent price growth w as
slow o verall, e xpectations for price growth o ver the ne xt six month rose at a moderate p ace. F aster
input price growth w as a noted dri ver of higher e xpected prices across goods and ser vices for the
coming year . In general, businesses w ere not able to p ass along recent cost pressures but
expressed plans to do so.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending gre w slightl y over the last month, dri ven b y growth in discretionar y spending
and auto purchases. O verall leisure and hospitalit y spending continued to rise, albeit with some
signs of a softer outlook ahead. Casino o perator s in Ne w Me xico repor ted fe wer visits and low er
spending per visit, and contacts at Oklahoma casinos indicated the outlook for 2025 is low er than
the pre vious t wo year s. Ski resor t contacts noted busy ear ly-season bookings and a sold-out
holida y season. How ever, out-of-state powder hounds o pted for low er cost basic p asses to sa ve on
their ski vacations and locals w ere repor tedly less lik ely to book lodging in advance, gambling that
lower prices on vacant lodging would be a vailable. While durable consumption contracted o ver the
past month, auto purchases gre w moderatel y driven b y pent-up demand as man y consumer s made
year-end vehicle purchases. Consumer s repor tedly took on long-ter m financing (often more than
72 months) to reduce monthl y auto p ayments in an effor t to manage household budget
constraints.
Community Conditions
Contacts repor ted low- and moderate-income (LMI) consumer s were str uggling with increasing debt
burdens. Most contacts said that the y were seeing higher credit card utilization, increasing debt-to -
income ratios, and delinquencies. Communit y development financial institutions contacts noted
more clients w ere seeking consolidation loans due to higher debt burdens. Contacts indicated LMI
populations continued to str uggle with food and housing prices, as the abilit y to offset prices w as
limited due to higher ear nings pushing households tow ard a benefits cliff with a potential loss in
government benefits. One contact noted wor kers would need at least a 10 to 15 percent increase
in wages to offset lost benefits but w ere onl y finding jobs with much smaller increases.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity
Activity in ser vice sector s grew moderatel y over the p ast month, largel y driven b y consumer-facing
services rather than business ser vices. Contacts shared that households within the region had
some pent-up demand for purchases that w ere dela yed due to economic concer ns that subsided
recentl y. Service fir ms continue to face pressure on profit margins as input prices rose faster than
selling prices. Margin pressures w ere fur ther e xacerbated b y higher o verhead costs. Select busi-
ness contacts repor ted robust growth in in ventories in the p ast month for specific impor ted38 The Beige Book
goods—such as computer s, phones, and other electronic equipment, as w ell as cer tain industrial
products—due to concer ns over potentiall y higher costs from pro posed impor t tariffs. The manu-
facturing sector continued e xperiencing a slight decline in acti vity. Nonetheless, manufacturing
firms remained o ptimist, anticip ating greater acti vity in the ear ly part of ne xt year dri ven b y
impro vement in future production and ne w order s.
Real Estate and Constr uction
The le vel of constr uction acti vity was unchanged in recent months, how ever se veral contacts noted
substantial shifts in the sources of constr uction demand. Municip al constr uction projects had
been a k ey source of demand in recent year s, but municip al development acti vity is w aning as the
availabilit y of public funds and outlook for fiscal spending d windle. Contacts indicated more pri vate
sector customer s are coming to the table to satisfy pent-up demand from dela yed de velopment
projects and defer red maintenance, offsetting the declines in municip al projects. In p articular , con-
tacts highlighted growth in demand for constr uction of healthcare facilities. Demand for single-
family home building also fir med slightl y, primaril y in luxur y segments or homes with large foot-
prints. O verall e xpectations for constr uction acti vity were fa vorable for the ne xt six months, with
contacts indicating an outlook for modest growth.
Community and Regional Banking
Loan demand and credit standards w ere mostl y unchanged across categories. How ever, the trend
of low er demand for residential mor tgage loans continued. Concer ns related to credit perfor mance
over the ne xt six months w ere less pre valent o verall but shifted notabl y to different segments of
the regional econom y. Much of the impro vement in the outlook around credit perfor mance w as due
to concer ns with commercial real estate loans being modified in the low er interest rate en viron-
ment. In contrast, contacts repor ted more pessimism for agriculture loans, as grain prices
remained low . Deposit le vels w ere stable, though bank ers noted a continued migration into cer tifi-
cate of deposit accounts and mone y mar ket accounts, as customer s took advantage of the cur-
rent rate en vironment.
Energ y
Tenth District oil and gas acti vity fell modestl y. While most contacts repor ted no change in acti vity,
approximatel y a quar ter of businesses repor ted declines. The number of acti ve oil rigs in the Dis-
trict fell slightl y, while gas rig counts rose as natural gas prices now meet the a verage break even
price repor ted by firms. Despite declining re venues and profits, District fir ms raised capital e xpen-
ditures and emplo yment substantiall y from this time last year . Firms expect drilling acti vity to pick
up some what in the ne xt six months but still do not e xpect material increases in productionFederal Reser ve Bank of Kansas Cit y39
heading forw ard. Contacts repor ted the prices needed for a substantial increase in drilling
remained higher than their long-ter m price e xpectations.
Agriculture
Agricultural economic conditions in the T enth District remained subdued alongside w eak cro p
prices. So ybean, wheat and cotton prices w ere near ly unchanged from the prior month and sta yed
below a verage break even le vels. Cor n prices also remained w eak despite increasing slightl y fol-
lowing recent repor ts of higher than anticip ated e xport activity. Strong mar ket conditions and high
prices suppor ted broad strength in the cattle industr y, but incomes w ere dampened in some areas
heavily affected b y drought. Lender s in the District repor ted slight deterioration in far m loan rep ay-
ment rates alongside w eaker incomes, but man y noted that balance sheet strength of recent year s
kept financial stress limited.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .KansasCit yFed.org/
research/regional-research .40 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Dallas
Summar y of Economic Activity
The Ele venth District econom y continued to e xpand moderatel y over the repor ting period. Growth
resumed in manufacturing output and acti vity pick ed up in nonfinancial ser vices and retail. Bank
loan volume e xpanded, and banks repor ted increased demand for loans despite continued credit
tightening . Home sales increased slightl y, while energ y acti vity was steady . Overall emplo yment
rose slightl y in December , although manufacturing emplo yment w as flat. W ages and prices gre w
moderatel y. Demand for nonprofit ser vices remained high amid uncer tainty regarding go vernment
funding . Outlooks continued to impro ve although there w as concer n regarding potentiall y adver se
effects of future immigration and trade policies.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment rose slightl y in December . Services emplo yment increased led b y education and
health ser vices, while emplo yment fell in trade, transpor tation, and utilities and infor mation ser-
vices. Manufacturing emplo yment remained flat as job gains in durable goods w ere offset b y
losses in nondurable goods manufacturing . According to a Dallas F ed sur vey, about a third of fir ms
are looking to hire either for ne w positions or replacement, while around t wo percent are la ying off
workers, both percentages remained steady since August.
Contacts repor ted an adequate suppl y of low-skilled labor , but a tight suppl y of skilled wor kers.
One fir m is looking to hire remote wor kers abroad to meet its need for skilled wor kers and another
firm noted increasing w ages to retain talent. A third contact noted that their fir m’s growth is being
held back b y the str uggle to find high-qualit y emplo yees. Energ y contacts stated that while o verall
hiring w as on p ause, e xceptions w ere being made for cer tain skilled positions. W age growth
remained moderate, but fir ms anticip ate w age growth to be slow er in the upcoming year than it
was in the p ast 12 months.
Prices
Prices increased at a moderate p ace o ver the repor ting period. Selling and input prices gre w mod-
eratel y in ser vices, while slowing to a modest p ace in manufacturing . Contacts broadl y noted that
potential tariffs would raise input costs, and, in response, se veral fir ms anticip ate passing
41
through the increased cost to consumer s. Firms plan to raise selling prices b y more than the y did
in 2024 although input prices are e xpected to grow more slowl y.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity grew modestl y in December , led b y gains in computer and electronic product
and food manufacturing . Manufacturer s repor ted no growth in ne w order s, though man y expect an
increase in demand in the fir st half of 2025. A Dallas F ed sur vey show ed that t wo-thirds of manu-
facturer s are acting ahead of the anticip ated tariffs, b y raising prices, finding ne w supplier s, and in
housing production or processes. Outlooks continued to impro ve in December but w ere tempered
by concer n about changes in domestic polic y.
Retail Sales
Retail sales gre w robustl y in December dri ven b y increased re venues for retailer s and nondurable
goods wholesaler s. Meanwhile, durable goods wholesaler s saw net declines. Auto dealer s
repor ted a modest increase in sales, although a fe w contacts noted that margins continue to
remain under pressure. O verall outlooks remained positi ve with some contacts citing o ptimism
about the implementation of business-friendl y policies b y the incoming administration.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Nonfinancial ser vices acti vity continued to grow moderatel y over the repor ting period. Re venue
growth w as led b y trade, transpor tation, and utilities as w ell as professional and business ser-
vices. Re venues fell in infor mation and leisure and hospitalit y. A transpor tation ser vices fir m
repor ted a small increase in p arcel volumes, while another contact noted that despite slow
growth, o verall p arcel volumes in 2024 will match the 2022 record-breaking le vel. Demand for air
travel remained strong dri ven b y leisure tra vel. Despite this, one air line industr y contact repor ted
not planning to increase cap acity to k eep upw ard pressure on airfares. Moreo ver, to fur ther
impro ve margins, the air line plans to implement cost cutting measures such as reducing discre-
tionar y spending and impro ving wor kforce efficiencies. Nonfinancial ser vices outlooks remained
positi ve in December , and most fir ms expect an increase in re venue o ver the ne xt six months.
However, man y contacts e xpressed concer n about the negati ve imp act of some anticip ated
domestic polic y changes.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Housing contacts noted mixed acti vity, with some repor ting meeting or e xceeding sales e xpecta-
tions while other s citing slug gish demand. Homebuilder s continued to offer incenti ves to capture42 The Beige Book
sales. Home in ventories inched upw ard, and ele vated mor tgage rates and high home prices con-
tinued to challenge affordabilit y. Outlooks w ere cautiousl y optimistic.
Commercial real estate acti vity was stable during the repor ting period. Ap artment leasing w as sea-
sonall y slow , and rents w ere flat to dow n as ap artment o perator s remained focused on main-
taining occup ancy. Office leasing demand pick ed up in some mar kets but remained subdued
overall. Industrial acti vity was characterized as solid, and rents rose modestl y.
Financial Ser vices
Loan volume accelerated shar ply in December . Credit tightening continued, but loan pricing
declined, both at the same p ace as six w eeks ago. Loan nonperfor mance rose but at a slow er
pace. In addition to swift growth in loan demand, bank ers repor ted a sizeable pickup in general
business acti vity for the fir st time in o ver two year s. Meanwhile, bank ers’ outlooks tur ned e ven
more o ptimistic. The y expect rapid impro vement in loan demand and business acti vity and just a
mild deterioration in loan perfor mance six months from now .
Energ y
Oilfield acti vity was largel y flat o ver the repor ting period. Contacts noted that oil prices in ear ly
2025 w ere not e xpected to suppor t an increase in production. A low er price outlook than a year
ago, rising producti vity, and ongoing M&A acti vity are e xpected to k eep a lid on production cape x
growth, if there is an y. Exploration and production contacts noted that M&A acti vity is e xpected to
remain health y through 2025 resulting in some fur ther la yoffs though most o perations are “o per-
ating as lean as the y can already .” Job losses are also e xpected b y oilfield ser vices contacts pri-
marily in natural gas producing regions. Nar rowing margins are being dri ven b y consolidation
among their customer s, and rising insurance costs. Due to this nar rowing , investment in equip -
ment is e xpected to remain at “maintenance le vels.”
Agriculture
Drought conditions retreated in p arts of the district and remained present in other s. Conditions
impro ved in the cattle sector with more ample grazing—thanks to recent rainfall—and significantl y
higher calf prices. Row cro p producer s faced financial str uggles in 2024 with largel y unprofitable
crop prices, and contacts e xpressed continued financial concer ns heading into the ne w year . The
winter wheat cro p is a bright spot looking ahead, with strong production prospects and solid
demand. Se veral contacts noted concer n about disr uption from potential retaliator y tariffs on agri-
culture e xports.Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas 43
Community P erspectives
Nonprofit ser vice pro viders repor ted a sustained high le vel of demand for social ser vices. This
comes at a time of heightened uncer tainty regarding future funding from state and federal go vern-
ments and possible changes in eligibilit y for social assistance programs. Nonprofits are looking for
alternative sources of funding , as a result. An El P aso contact noted that if changes in eligibilit y
require more wor k hour s, the resulting influx of generall y low-skilled wor kers into a saturated labor
market will suppress w ages. Another contact repor ted that close to half of the families the y serve
lost childcare benefits recentl y because the y could not find a job within the required time. In higher
education, 2024 communit y college enrollment e xceeded pre-p andemic le vels. In addition, man y
communit y colleges ha ve sur passed perfor mance e xpectations, and thus, will recei ve additional
funding in 2025.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .dallasfed.org/
research/te xas.44 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
San F rancisco
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the T welfth District e xpanded slightl y during the mid-No vember through
December repor ting period. Emplo yment le vels w ere largel y unchanged, and emplo yee retention
impro ved fur ther. Wages w ere up slightl y overall, and year-end p ay increases w ere in line with his-
torical a verages. Price le vels w ere generall y stable in recent w eeks. Retail sales gre w modestl y as
contacts repor ted a solid holida y sho pping season. Consumer and business ser vices sector s saw
steady to slightl y higher acti vity over the repor ting period. Manufacturing acti vity varied b y product
categor y, while conditions in the agriculture and resource-related sector s softened slightl y. Resi-
dential real estate mar kets w ere stable o verall, and commercial real estate conditions w ere mixed.
Lending acti vity was steady . Demand for ser vices related to affordable housing , food assistance,
and mental health remained high from communities across the District. Contacts ’ economic out-
look wor sened slightl y relati ve to the prior repor ting period.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels w ere stable on net o ver the p ast fe w weeks. Emplo yers generall y noted
impro ved retention rates, e xpanded applicant pools, and higher qualit y candidates. Open positions
were easier to fill o verall. How ever, a larger share of contacts e xpressed caution in their hiring
decisions and hesitation to adjust their headcounts going forw ard relati ve to prior repor ting
periods, citing uncer tainty regarding the business en vironment. A fe w repor ts highlighted a mis-
match bet ween job requirements and applicants ’ skill sets for some entr y-level positions in infor-
mation technolog y and the skilled trades. Additionall y, emplo yers noted lingering challenges hiring
engineer s, accountants, as w ell as mid-le vel manager s in business ser vices, finance, and
health care.
Wages w ere up slightl y up on balance. End-of-year p ay adjustments and merit-based bonuses w ere
generall y in line with historical a verages across sector s and geographies. W age pressures eased
in constr uction, manufacturing , real estate, and business ser vices but remained some what
elevated for engineer s as w ell as for some senior positions in finance and infor mation technolog y.
Some contacts mentioned that the recent collecti ve bargaining agreements bet ween hotels and
labor unions as w ell as changes to some minimum w age requirements made the leisure and hos-
pitalit y sector more attracti ve to hour ly wage wor kers in other sector s.
45
Prices
Price le vels w ere generall y stable in recent w eeks. On balance, nonlabor costs w ere unchanged in
several industries, such as manufacturing , consumer and business ser vices, and financial ser-
vices. Business ow ners continued to repor t large increases in insurance premiums and health-
care costs, but some noted that recent declines in energ y prices, p articular ly for fuel, helped ease
some of the cost pressures. Looking ahead, contacts generall y expected their abilit y to p ass on
higher costs to customer s to remain limited, and most said their prices will lik ely increase at a
slower pace in 2025 relati ve to 2024, or e ven remain flat or decline.
Community Conditions
Demand remained ele vated for communit y suppor t services such as affordable housing , food
assistance, and mental health ser vices. Funding for nonprofit organizations from both indi vidual
donor s and go vernment sources fell. Contacts across the District repor ted that public and pri vate
educational institutions of all le vels faced tighter financial conditions due to low er funding inflows
and higher labor costs. Generall y easing inflation trends lessened strain on small businesses,
though challenges per sisted with insurance premiums, rents, and financing costs. Small busi-
nesses and nonprofit organizations repor ted that recent integration of soft ware technologies
allowed them to e xpand their outreach effor ts and pro vide more per sonalized ser vices.
Retail T rade and Ser vices
Retail sales e xpanded modestl y over the repor ting period. Contacts obser ved a solid holida y sho p-
ping season, similar to last year’ s spending . Retailer s noted higher demand for outdoor products
and increased foot traffic in sho pping center s across the District. Sales at organic specialt y stores
repor tedly outp aced those at regular grocer y stores, p articular ly in the Mountain W est states. Con-
sumer s continued to tak e advantage of promotional pricing , which bolstered o verall retail sales.
However, demand for some products repor tedly softened, including pet specialt y items and wood
products at home impro vement stores. Retailer s generall y repor ted adequate in ventor y levels,
although the y were some what low er than le vels obser ved last year .
Activity in consumer and business ser vices w as stable to slightl y up in recent w eeks. Acti vity in
the leisure and hospitalit y sector pick ed up on balance, with increased tra vel demand from groups
and businesses that slightl y offset flat demand for leisure tra vel. Repor ts indicated low er guest
counts at bar s and restaurants in recent w eeks, which w ere imp acted b y bad w eather in p arts of
the District despite t ypical holida y-related acti vity. Demand for consulting ser vices increased of
late as fir ms inquired about the potential imp act of economic polic y adjustments on their business
operations. Demand for health-care ser vices remained strong . Conditions in the legal ser vices
sector w ere mixed b y firm size, with smaller ones faring wor se.46 The Beige Book
Manufacturing
Activity in the manufacturing sector varied b y product categor y. Demand strengthened for capital
equipment as more customer s invested in using automation for cost sa vings on e xisting and ne w
tasks in response to ele vated labor costs. Demand for manufactured lumber products w as
unchanged. A contact in the P acific Nor thwest repor ted some general slowdow n in manufacturing
activity in the region but noted strengthening demand for defense manufacturing .
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
Conditions in agriculture and resource-related sector s softened slightl y. Demand w as stable for
agricultural and animal products such as fr uits, vegetables, meat, and dair y. Yields of food cro ps
were solid but dow n comp ared to prior har vests. Drought conditions in the Mountain W est
negati vely affected grain yields, while grow ers in Califor nia repor ted that w ater suppl y was not an
issue. Ex ports of almonds fell. Log har vesting acti vity experienced seasonal slowing , which
reduced mar ket suppl y and put upw ard pressure on log prices. Additionall y, log e xports remained
low because of muted demand from China. Materials and agricultural inputs w ere generall y avail-
able. Some contacts repor ted per sistent challenges with labor a vailabilit y and generall y high
energ y costs.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity was largel y unchanged from the last repor ting period. High
financing costs and e xcess suppl y of multifamil y housing pro perties continued to hold back ne w
residential constr uction projects. F inding skilled labor remained a challenge. High mor tgage rates
and home insurance costs cur tailed demand in single-famil y mar kets in some regions in Califor nia
and Oregon. Contacts in the Mountain W est noted that strong demand for housing in areas with a
growing po pulation put upw ard pressure on home prices.
Conditions in the commercial real estate mar ket were mixed. Demand for office sp ace remained
sluggish o verall, though one contact repor ted an uptick in demand and rental rates for the most
desirable office sp aces. De velopers put some retail and industrial projects on hold due to a recent
slowdow n in demand. Demand in other sector s, including infrastr ucture projects and go vernment
offices, w as repor tedly strong . Availabilit y of raw materials generall y impro ved of late but remained
an issue for some products such as electrical and HV AC components. Constr uction costs,
including those for insurance, electrical equipment, and steel, increased o verall.Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco 47
Financial Institutions
Lending acti vity was steady . Demand for business loans impro ved some what o ver the repor ting
period. Demand for consumer loans, including mor tgages, w as subdued due to ele vated interest
rates. Credit qualit y remained health y overall. How ever, repor ts highlighted some credit qualit y con-
cerns coming from small businesses and low-income households. Demand for deposits w as
unchanged, and deposit flows w ere stable.48 The Beige Book

www.federalreser ve.go v
0125