        For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. 
        W e d n e s d a y          June 11, 2008 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
  
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
June 2008 
   
 
           
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS  
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
   
JUNE 2008
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
  
SUMMARY………………………………………………………………..i 
First District – Boston……………………………………………………I-1 
Second District – New York…………………………………………….II-1 Third District – Ph iladelphia………………………………………...…III-1 
Fourth District – Cleveland…………………………………………….IV-1 Fifth District – Richmond………………………………………....…….V-1 Sixth District – Atlanta…………………………………………………VI-1 Seventh District – Chicago……………………………………………VII-1 Eighth District – St. Louis………………………………………...….VIII-1 Ninth District – Minneapolis…………………………………. ……….IX-1 
Tenth District – Kansas City……………………………………………X-1 
Eleventh District – Dallas……………………………………………..XI-1 Twelfth District – San Francisco……………………………….……..XII-1 
 
   
 i
SUMMARY* 
 
Reports from the Federal Reserve Districts suggest that economic activity 
remained generally weak in late April a nd May.  Three Districts described economic 
activity as softer, weaker, or lower, with an  additional four Distri cts reporting slower, 
sluggish, or modest economic gr owth.  The remaining five Districts of Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Franci sco described activity as stable or little 
changed in recent weeks. 
Consumer spending slowed since the last  report as incomes were pinched by 
rising energy and food prices.  Higher energy prices also appeared to damp domestic 
tourism.  Reports on nonfinancial services varied across District s and industries.  
Manufacturing activity was gene rally soft in recent weeks, with weak demand for 
housing-related and some other products but with increasing demand for exports.  
Residential real estate markets remained weak  across most Districts.  Commercial real 
estate conditions varied across Districts, as did reports on nonres idential construction 
activity.  Lending activity also varied acr oss Districts and market segments, though 
tighter credit standards were reported for most  loan categories.  Districts reporting on the 
agriculture and energy sectors noted improved crop conditions and increased drilling and 
extraction activity.  
Reports of higher input costs were widesp read.  Manufacturing c ontacts in several 
Districts noted some ability to pass along higher costs to customers.  Retailers reported mixed results with respect to ra ising final goods prices.  In mo st Districts, wage pressures 
                                                
 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and based on information collected on or before June 2, 2008.  
This document summarizes comments receiv ed from businesses and other contacts  outside the Federal Reserve and is 
not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.  
 ii
were reported as moderate or limited for a ll but a few skilled-labor positions, as hiring 
activity remained spotty in most Districts. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism.   Consumer spending slowed further since 
the last report.  Contacts in several Di stricts said rising energy and food prices 
contributed to softer sales in other categories.  Th e overall pace of retail sales moderated 
in the Districts of Philadelphia, Richmond, A tlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and 
San Francisco, and was level in Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas City.  Retail sales 
reports were mixed in Boston and New York.  According to contac ts, retail inventory 
levels were generally higher in the Atlanta Di strict and among some types of stores in 
San Francisco; some establishments in the New York, St. Louis, and Richmond Districts 
expressed concerns about invent ory levels.  In the Boston Dist rict retail inventories were 
stable.  Employment was on the whole unchange d at Boston District retailers, whereas 
retailers in the Cleveland District said they were only hiring for new stores, and 
Richmond District retail c ontacts reported job cuts. 
 Reports on overall sales of automobiles a nd light trucks were weak, with several 
Districts indicating that sale s of trucks and SUVs declined.  Although dealers generally 
struggled to move vehicles off of their lo ts, contacts in the Richmond, Atlanta, and 
Chicago Districts reported solid sales of hybrid and other fuel-efficient vehicles. 
Tourist activity varied across Districts.  New York contacts said that tourist 
activity had softened, noting lower attendan ce at Broadway theaters. San Francisco 
reported weaker hotel bookings in Southern California and in Hawaii, but record hotel 
occupancy rates in parts of Alaska.  Higher gasoline prices appeared to weaken tourism 
activity in the Chicago Distri ct, but increased activity at some resorts in the Richmond 
 iii
District as families took vacations closer to home.  International visitors boosted tourism 
activity in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts.  Nonfinancial Services.  Reports from nonfinancial services industries varied 
among Districts.  New York and Minneapolis reported weaker business conditions while 
contacts in the Richmond District repor ted slower revenue growth, except in 
telecommunications.  Demand growth for servi ce providers slowed in the San Francisco 
District.  Demand at services businesses in  Boston and Chicago, however, was mixed and 
the pace of business spending was little changed in the Ch icago District.  Meanwhile, 
demand in the service sector generally stre ngthened in St. Louis and Kansas City.  
Staffing agencies in the Rich mond District reported somewhat weaker demand overall, 
while staffing agencies in the Chicago and Da llas Districts said that demand was stable.  
In transportation services, intermodal ship ments edged down in the Atlanta and Dallas 
Districts, while freight servi ce growth was flat in the Clev eland District.  Reports on air 
travel remained strong despite route reductions, according to contacts in the Kansas City 
Districts.  
In service sector labor mark ets, Chicago reported a slower  pace of hiring in recent 
weeks and Minneapolis reported that employ ment in professional services companies 
decreased from a year ago and is expected to remain flat over the next year.  Cleveland 
and Richmond reported little net change in se rvices employment, while  contacts in the St. 
Louis District said that expa nsion at firms in some serv ices industries will lead to 
additional hiring.  Boston and Dallas noted tight  labor markets for some skilled workers.  
 Manufacturing.  Manufacturing activity was generall y soft since the last report.  
Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and Chi cago reported that activity had weakened, 
 iv
although St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas Cit y, and Dallas indicated that activity had 
increased slightly.  Philadelphia, Cleveland, and San Francisco descri bed factory activity 
as nearly steady.  Reports of softer demand for housing-related produc ts continued to be 
widespread.  Many Districts c ited higher production costs and cuts in employment that 
contacts attributed to slum ping home sales and constructi on.  The Atlanta and Chicago 
Districts indicated that automotive production or  sales fell short of expectations, while 
the Cleveland District saw an uptick in the production of domestic nameplates.  Reports 
on food processing were mixed with some Di stricts indicating that  higher prices had 
constrained demand, while ot hers noted rising demand.  
Industries demonstrating increased activ ity were boosted, in part, by a strong 
overseas market.  Cleveland, Atlanta, Chi cago, and Dallas reported that the demand for 
steel was strong.  The output of energy-related equipment  increased in the Boston, 
Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts, while strong sales of farm equipment boosted 
demand for manufacturers of heavy equipmen t according to Chicago and San Francisco.  
Dallas also reported strong demand for trans portation equipment to supply defense and 
aircraft industries.  Real Estate and Construction.   Residential real estate  markets were generally 
weak across most of the nation.  District report s indicated flat or d eclining home sales in 
Boston, New York, Cleveland, St. Louis, and Da llas, and contacts in Philadelphia did not 
expect housing activity to expa nd strongly this year.  Contac ts in San Francisco reported 
that housing markets remained exceptionally weak, although a few reports pointed to 
some recent pickup in home sales attributed to  increased affordability.  Scattered reports 
from Philadelphia and Kansas City indicated seasonal improvements.  Inventory levels of 
 v
new and existing homes remained high or were rising in New York, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, and San Francisco.  Home  sales prices decreased somewhat in 
Boston, Atlanta, Kansas City, and San Franci sco, but remained relatively stable in 
Richmond and Chicago.  The New York and Ch icago Districts noted that some potential 
buyers had difficulty in obtaining financi ng.  Residential construction declined in 
Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapo lis, but was flat to slightly higher in parts of the Atlanta 
District and spiked in areas of the Dallas Di strict where demand for apartments was solid.  
Homebuilders in Cleveland expected no impr ovement in the housing industry for the 
remainder of 2008, and Chicago reported th at limited credit availability for new 
developments had caused many builders to su ffer losses on existing projects.  Richmond 
and San Francisco noted an increase in home foreclosures. 
Commercial real estate c onditions varied in April a nd May, with some Districts 
reporting that activity had softened.  Leas ing activity eased in Boston, New York, 
Philadelphia, Richmond, and San Francisco.  Minneapolis, however, reported that market 
activity was up modestly, while activity wa s mixed across the St. Louis District.  
Vacancy rates edged higher in Boston, Kans as City, and San Francisco, as well as in 
pockets of the Richmond and St. Louis Distri cts.  Absorption was negative in Boston and 
in Minneapolis for both office and manufacturing space.  Overall rents were on the rise in 
New York, but were stable or  beginning to slip in Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, and 
Kansas City.  Sales trended downward accord ing to the New York, Philadelphia, and 
Kansas City Districts. 
Reports on nonresidential construction  activity were mixed.  Contacts from 
Chicago and Minneapolis saw slight increases in activit y.  Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
 vi
Richmond, Atlanta, and Dallas, however, reporte d easing or weak leve ls of construction.  
A number of Districts – Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas – reported that 
obtaining financing remained difficult for some projects. 
 Banking and Finance.  Reports on lending activity varied across Districts, 
although reports of softening in the consumer  segment persisted.  Overall loan demand 
cooled in Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Francisco, while Philadelphia and 
Cleveland saw a modest increase. New York reported little change in demand across all 
categories, while lending activity in Chica go was mixed.  Residential lending activity 
remained generally weak in Richmond, Atla nta, and Chicago.  In contrast, demand 
picked up in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas, but was about the same in 
St. Louis.  Commercial and i ndustrial lending activity was mo stly unchanged or declining 
in New York, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco, while Philadelphia, Richmond, 
and Chicago saw slight increases. Atlanta re ported commercial lending activity as mixed. 
 The New York, Philadelphia, and Cleveland Districts reported increases in overall 
delinquencies, with respondents in New York indicating a notable rise in late payments 
for consumer loans.  Credit quality deteriorated further in San Francisco, but began to stabilize in Chicago and Dallas.  Contacts in Kansas City and Dallas expected loan 
quality to deteriorate going forward. All Dist ricts reporting on credit standards noted 
further tightening for consumer, re sidential, and commercial loans. 
 Agriculture and Natural Resources.  Despite less-than-ideal weather, crop 
conditions generally improved for most report ing Districts.  Reports from the Richmond, 
Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneap olis Districts indi cated that the combination of cooler-
than-normal weather and wet conditions de layed planting and development of many 
 vii
crops.  St. Louis said that planting of majo r crops was behind its fi ve-year average pace, 
while Minneapolis noted delayed planting and development of corn and soybeans. 
Richmond and Chicago reported that some crops would require replanting, although 
Chicago District contacts expected small losses in yields.  Despite weather delays, 
Kansas City noted that corn planting was almost complete, soybean planting was in 
progress, and the winter wh eat crop was in good condition.  Chicago and Dallas cited 
high input costs and price movements for co rn as factors leadi ng farmers to shift 
production away from corn towards soybean s. Dairy and livestock producers in the 
Chicago and Kansas City Districts voiced conc erns that rising feed costs were eating into 
profit margins.  Activity in the energy industry remained  strong according to reports from the 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Fr ancisco Districts.  Cleveland said that 
energy producers reported a pickup in oil and gas drilling, and Minneap olis indicated that 
robust oil and gas exploration and production co ntinued in their Dist rict.  Kansas City 
noted that the number of active drilling rigs  surged since the last survey period and 
remained well above year-ago levels.  San Fr ancisco reported that oil and natural gas 
extraction expanded further in response to growing demand, but that activity had been 
constrained slightly by a shorta ge of equipment and material s. In contrast, Dallas noted 
that high oil and natural gas prices had pushe d drilling to the highest level in 20 years 
without any shortages of equipment and services to date. 
Prices and Wages.   Business contacts in most Di stricts reported increases in 
input prices since the last re port, especially prices for energy, petroleum derivatives, 
metals, plastics, chemicals, and food.  Ma nufacturing contacts in several Districts 
 viii
reported some ability to pass along the higher costs to customers and contacts in the 
Cleveland District noted that they are considering additional price increases in the near 
future if input costs continue to rise.  On the other hand, contacts in the Cleveland, 
Atlanta, and Chicago Districts noted falling or stable prices for certain goods related to 
the construction industry.  Retail price repor ts were mixed, with contacts in the San 
Francisco District reporti ng subdued price pressures for most products save food and 
energy-intensive goods.  Contacts in the New Yo rk District reported steady retail prices 
with somewhat more aggressive discounting.  However, retail contacts in the Richmond 
and Kansas City Districts reported higher pri ces, while retailers in the Chicago District 
reported increased pressure to pass along hi gher food and energy pri ces.  Contacts in the 
Kansas City and Dallas Districts cited expect ations for higher retail prices in the near 
future. 
Business contacts in most Districts reporte d moderate or limited wage growth in 
response to some loosening of labor market  conditions.  Contacts in the Boston, Chicago, 
Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts noted  wage pressures for certain skilled labor 
positions in industries facing worker shortages. 
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON  
Sales and revenue results at First District retaile rs and manufacturers continue to be mixed, but 
contacts indicate that business activity is generally so ftening.  Respondents cite ongoing cost pressures; 
many manufacturers say they have raised or plan to raise prices.  Revenue growth rates have slowed for 
software and information technology services firms in  the region, and most staffing firms report little 
growth.  Contacts in residential real estate cite some positive signs, but ongoing declines in home sales 
and prices.  According to most responde nts, the outlook remains uncertain.   
Retail 
Retail contacts in the First District report mixed sales results for the months of April and May. 
Retailers say they see clear evidence that consumers ar e scaling back their spending, and the majority of 
respondents complain that the media’s “doom and gloo m” portrayal of the economy contributes to such 
cutbacks.  One retailer is concerned about the squeeze that credit market tu rmoil is putting on customers.   
Inventory levels and employment  are generally stable, with several respondents scrutinizing the 
need for future hiring. Capital spending is largely on plan. A majority of contacted First District retailers 
mention cost pressures, mostly related to oil.  
Overall, First District retailers are cautious in th eir outlook and expect the next few months to be 
a continued challenge.  However, most are confid ent they will pull through this period of economic 
uncertainty; they expect conditions to  improve by early to mid-2009.  
Manufacturing and Related Services  
Many manufacturers and related services providers headquartered in the First District see signs 
that business trends are deteriorating in the current quarter.  Contacts say that demand has started to 
weaken for nonresidential building equipment and for non-automotive transportation equipment and 
services.  Two manufacturers of health-related equi pment indicate that orders have slowed, and a 
machinery maker reports that business “has fallen off a cliff” in the second quarter.  In contrast to the 
general picture, demand for energy-related equipment and scientific and analytical instruments continues 
to grow in line with recent trends.  Contacts from various industries report that overseas markets remain 
relatively strong, although some say their Western Eu ropean sales have been sluggish in recent months.  
Many manufacturers continue to voice concerns a bout sharply rising materials costs, especially 
metals, plastics and other petroleum derivatives, and chemicals.  They also mention that energy and transport costs have increased substantially. Most of the affected respondents have raised prices or expect 
to do so shortly.  However, some firms are experiencing margin pressures because of competition in specific product markets or deteriorating finances on the part of their business customers. 
A majority of manufacturing respondents have implemented restructuring programs to reduce 
their U.S. headcounts.  The remaining firms are mo stly holding domestic employment steady.  Average 
 
I - 2 
pay increases are in the range of 3 percent to 4 pe rcent.  Contacts generally describe their 2008 U.S. 
capital spending plans as normal and say their domestic investments focus on reducing operating costs or 
developing new products.  Roughly one-half of the sampl e point to lingering problems in capital markets; 
they mention high costs or stringent conditions, or they worry that funding may not be available for large, lumpy projects such as acquisitions. 
 Almost all firms express concerns about th e U.S. economy, especially consumer spending, 
housing markets, and energy costs.  Many expect that  the impact on their business will be most notable 
between now and the end of the summer.  A few me ntion likely or potential vulnerabilities in 2009. 
Software and Information Technology Services 
First District software and IT services contacts re port mixed results for the first quarter of 2008, 
with a couple showing negative revenue growth from a year ago, but the majority experiencing gains. A 
few firms cite delays in signing contracts, which they  take as a sign that their clients are uncertain about 
the economy.  Two software companies note that domestic  licensing revenue has been harder to come by 
in recent months.  One-half of respondents are addi ng technology workers and sales staff, although at a 
much slower pace than during the previous quart er; among the other half, one firm has increased 
employment significantly, while the remaining firms are holding headcount stable.   Respondents report 
that the labor market for technical talent remains ti ght.  All contacted firms have raised pay, generally 
around 4 percent.  The majority of New England so ftware and information technology respondents are 
projecting revenues to continue growing at current rates.   
Staffing Services 
New England staffing firms experienced a wide range of business conditions this quarter, with 
one contact reporting that business is “the worst I have ever seen,” while another posted a revenue 
increase of nearly 20 percent compared to a year ear lier.  For the majority of respondents, however, 
business activity is either flat or changing only s lightly.  Contacts indicate high labor demand from the 
pharmaceutical, engineering, semiconductor, and aeros pace industries, as well as specific needs for web 
developers, CAD programmers, and project managers .  Reports on labor suppl y conditions vary across 
firms, with one contact seeing as many as ten new app licants per day, while another reports a dearth of 
applicants, partly resulting from caution about giving up existing jobs.  
Several staffing executives report a change in hi ring procedures among client companies.  One 
contact says, “Clients are holding out for the A ca ndidate, when in the past, they took the A and B 
candidate.”  Another complains about “intense scru tiny on resumes,” which is putting applicants for 
temporary positions through a rigorous process akin to  that used for permanent hires.  One contact 
believes recent economic uncertainty has augmented bus iness, with client companies increasingly turning 
to temporary staffing to avoid long-term obligations.  On the other hand, some clients are hesitant to 
 
I - 3 
undertake new projects, thus lowering their need for job applicants.  Despite their concern over economic 
instability, respondents in the staffing industry voice optimism regarding the second half of the year.   
Commercial Real Estate 
Commercial real estate contacts report that the Boston office building market, which was largely 
dormant in the first quarter, has seen a number of pr operties come up for sale in recent weeks; however, 
one contact notes that the number of closed transactions has not yet edged up significantly.  Respondents 
indicate that commercial mortgage originations are still being made only by traditional portfolio 
lenders—life insurance companies and commercial ba nks—and not by Wall Street investment banks, and 
lending standards remain relatively stringent.  A small mutual bank in Boston continues to enjoy 
increased demand for its loans, but expects competition from Wall Street dealers to return by year’s end.   
Contacts indicate that commercial leasing activity has slowed further in recent weeks, but not 
dramatically so.  Many say that maintenance and c onstruction costs are up shar ply, putting pressure on net 
operating incomes.  In greater Boston, contracted rents for prime office space are falling short of original asking rents.  Existing tenants are cutting back on sp ace.  Absorption is negative and vacancies continue 
to edge up.  Downtown buildings a ppear to be doing fine, with about 10 percent vacancy, but activity is 
slower in the suburbs, where vacancy is estimated at 14 percent or higher.  Leasing activity has been slow 
throughout other parts of New England but, as in Bo ston, office vacancy rates are still low or average by 
historical standards.  Retail leasing activity has been  strong among tourist-oriented shops in Maine, but 
slower in strip-mall developments across the regi on, where vacancy appears to be up slightly.  A 
Providence contact reports that commercial real estate  in Rhode Island is currently “in a recession.”   
Despite the downbeat reports, commercial real estat e contacts throughout the District indicate that 
layoffs have been minimal so far.  Expectations are that market conditions will get slightly worse before 
getting better, with the turnaround expected by the four th quarter of 2008 or the first quarter of 2009.   
Residential Real Estate 
Residential real estate markets in New England again saw declines in home sales and prices 
compared to year-earlier periods.  Massachusetts home sales decreased 16 percent year-over-year in April—somewhat less than in previous months—wh ile condo sales decreased 27 percent.  Connecticut 
and New Hampshire experienced year-to-date hom e sales declines of 28 percent and 24 percent, 
respectively, compared to 2007.  Rhode Island home sales decreased 18 percent year-over-year in March, 
and Maine home sales decreased 23 percent year-over-y ear in April.  Meanwhile, median home prices are 
down 8 percent to 11 percent from a year earlier across the states.  
Contacts in Massachusetts continue to report increased activity at open houses, and April’s 
pending home sales numbers in the Boston area are said  to look promising.  However, one contact notes 
that financing issues could still prevent increased activity from translating into increased sales.   
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has been generally weaker since the last report.  Manufacturers 
report that business activity remained sluggish in Ma y, while cost pressures have been increasingly 
widespread.  Contacts at non-manufacturing firms, in general, report continued deterioration in business conditions and anticipate little improvement in the months ahead.  A major employment agency notes recent weakening in hiring activity and some general slackening in the labor markets.  Retailers indicate mixed results for April and May; sales are said to be close to plan on average.   
Tourism activity in New York City has shown some  signs of softening since the last report.  
Housing markets weakened further, with sales activity down and prices flat to lower.   New York City’s 
office market continued to soften in April and Ma y—while leasing activity has remained moderately 
brisk, vacancy rates have continued to rise. Finally, bankers report some steadying in loan demand, further tightening in credit standards, and continued increases in delinquency rates across all loan categories.  
Consumer Spending  
Retailers report that sales were mixed in April and May; on average, sales were relatively close to 
plan and little changed from a year ago.  As has been the case in recent months, sales were reported to be particularly strong in New York City.  Inventories are mixed—one large chain notes they are at desired levels but another reports a sizable overhang.  Retail selling prices are reported to have remained steady since the last report, though with somewhat more aggressive discounting; one major chain anticipates a sizable increase in apparel prices in the upcom ing season, based on higher acquisition costs.  
Consumer surveys indicate further deterioration in  confidence: the Conference Board’s survey of 
Middle Atlantic state residents (NY, NJ, Pa) s hows consumer confidence declining for the eighth 
consecutive month in May, falling to a nearly 15-year  low.  Tourism activity in New York City has 
shown some signs of softening since the last report.  While Manhattan’s hotel occupancy rate remained 
 
 II-2 
close to 90 percent in April, room rates were up by 7½ percent from a year earlier, and total revenues 
were up 6 percent; these are the smallest 12-month in creases in more than two years.  More recently, 
Broadway theaters report that both attendance and re venues were down more than 10 percent from a year 
ago in April; they recovered somewhat in May but were still down roughly 3 percent from a year earlier.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Housing markets in the District have shown furthe r signs of weakening.  Sales transactions for 
Manhattan co-ops and condos are reported to have been down sharply from a year earlier in April and May, while inventories of unsold units have risen by much more than the seasonal norm since the beginning of the year.  A leading appraisal firm reports that average and median selling prices have been buoyed by a skew in volume toward the high end, with pr ices of comparable units flat to lower than a 
year ago.  Sales activity in the outer boroughs is also reported to be down sharply from a year earlier.  One industry contact says that he has heard of qu ite a few deals falling through due to difficulties in 
obtaining financing.   
Separately, an expert in New Jersey’s homebuilding industry notes that the market for new homes 
is being hampered by ongoing weakness in the resale market, where sales activity remains at low levels and prices are down more than 10 percent from a year ago.  However, builders are reported to have worked through much of their inventory overhang a nd are no longer offering aggressive discounts, but 
they are still offering concessions.   
Commercial real estate markets in the region have shown further signs of slackening since the last 
report.  While Manhattan’s office market is still fairly  active in terms of leasing activity and renewals, 
office vacancy rates continued to rise in May—particularly on Class A properties.  A sizable amount of available space is coming onto the market, largely from  financial firms.  This has bolstered average 
asking rents, as the mix of available space has become  more weighted toward the high end: asking rents 
are up roughly 10 percent from a year ago, but this is well below the 20 to 30 percent appreciation seen 
 
 II-3 
in 2007.  The sales market for office properties is reported to be especially weak, with prices estimated to 
be down 15 to 20 percent from a year earlier.  New Jersey’s office rental and sales markets are also reported to be increasingly soft, with a fair amount of new development said to be in the pipeline.    
Other Business Activity 
A major New York City employment agency notes  that hiring activity has weakened noticeably 
in May, though the final week of the month did see a slight pickup.  This contact also indicates a 
noticeable increase in job candidates recently laid off from the securities industry.  Small financial firms 
are reported to be hiring sporadically, but the major Wall Street firms are reported to be hiring very little or not at all.  Legal firms have also pulled back on hiring, apparently reflecting diminished financial sector business.  Starting salaries are reported to be little changed from a year ago; in general, firms are making somewhat lower offers on average, because a larger proportion of job applicants are currently out of work.  
New York State manufacturers report that busine ss activity remained sluggish in May; contacts 
again report increasingly widespread hikes in prices paid but only moderate increases in selling prices.  
Non-manufacturing contacts, in general, report continued widespread weakening in business conditions and widespread cost pressures but steady employment levels.   
Financial Developments  
Bankers report little change in loan demand in any loan category or in refinancing activity. 
Respondents indicate continued tightening of credit sta ndards across all loan categories, most evidently 
in the commercial mortgage category.  No bankers report eased standards for any type of loan.  Respondents note an increase in the spreads of loan rates over cost of funds in all loan categories, 
especially in commercial and industrial loans.  Banke rs also report a decrease in average deposit rates.  
Finally, respondents indicate a rise in delinquencies in all loan categories, but most notably on consumer loans.   
III - 1 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Business conditions in the Third District s howed signs of stabili zing during May, overall, 
as some sectors strengthened slightly and othe rs weakened. Manufacturer s, on balance, reported 
nearly steady rates of new orders and shipment s in May, after decreases  in April. Retailers 
continued to post lackluster sales results, with many stores expe riencing year-over-year 
decreases. Sales of motor vehicles continued to  fall. Bank lending has been increasing slowly. 
Residential real estate sales a nd construction activity remained well below the pace of a year ago, 
although there has been a slight se asonal increase in home sales. Co mmercial real estate leasing 
and construction activity has diminished in the pa st few months. Reports of increases in input 
costs and output prices were a bout as common in May as they were in April. Employers in the 
District continued to describe  wage increases as moderate. 
The outlook among Third District businesses varies. Manufacturers’ forecasts have 
become more positive since the last Beige Book. On  balance, they expect increases in shipments 
and orders during the next six mont hs. Retailers generally do not fo resee a significant increase in 
the sales pace during the summer. Auto dealer s expect sales to weak en further. Bankers 
anticipate slow expansion in ove rall lending. Residentia l real estate agen ts and home builders 
expect sales to continue to be slow during th e next several months despite the recent slight 
upturn. Contacts in commercial real  estate expect leasing and construction activity to remain soft 
until financial conditions improve. 
 
Manufacturing 
Third District manufacturers re ported nearly steady rates of shipments and new orders, on 
balance, from April to May. Around one-half of the manufacturers surveyed noted no change, 
month-to-month, and the percenta ge reporting increases was offs et by that of firms reporting 
decreases. Overall, manufacturers in the District  reported a drop in order backlogs from April to 
May. Increased demand for their products wa s reported by producers of lumber and wood 
products, furniture, electrical machinery, and te sting and measuring instruments. Decreased 
demand was noted by producers of apparel, chem icals, and petroleum products. Several firms 
reported that demand for their products was slow “ due to low levels of housing construction” or 
III - 2 
“less automotive business.” However, several firm s reported that they were benefiting from 
“strong exports” or because of the “retur n of work” that had been done offshore. 
The outlook in the Third District manufacturi ng sector has improved since the last Beige 
Book. Around one-half of the manufact urers polled in May expect new orders and shipments to 
rise during the next six months, and around one-tenth expect declines. On balance, manufacturers 
in the District expect their order backlogs to grow, and they plan to increase working hours. 
 
Retail 
Retailers in the Third District generally repor ted that sales continued to be slow in May. 
Results varied across stores, but on balance sales were level with or somewhat below sales in 
May of last year, on a current doll ar basis. Some stores reported in creases in sales of big-ticket 
items, such as appliances and furniture, boosted by promotions that encouraged shoppers to 
spend their income tax rebates. Nevertheless, most  of the retailers contacted for this report said 
the spring selling season has not met expectations . In general, merchants said low consumer 
confidence and rising food and energy costs ar e deterring discretionary spending. One retail 
executive said “high gas and food prices are sucking money out of retail” and another noted that 
“consumers will respond only if you provide value.”  
The outlook among retailers in the District re mains subdued. Most of those surveyed in 
May see no signs that consumer spending will stre ngthen soon, and they do not expect sales to 
pick up significantly until consumer confidence is restored. With an uncertain outlook, many 
retail companies in the region are postponing expa nsion plans and limiting capital improvements. 
Auto dealers in the region generally reporte d a continuing downward  sales trend in May. 
Although there were indications that  sales of automobiles were incr easing, the decline in sales of 
light trucks and SUVs has led to a drop in total vehicle sales comp ared to a year ago. Dealers in 
the region expect total vehicle sales to weaken further during the summer. 
 
Finance 
Total outstanding loans at Third District banks  rose slowly in May. There were gains in 
all major credit categories, although real estate loan growth was we ak. Bankers said the slow rate 
of real estate loan expansion wa s the result of a low rate of home sales as well as limits that 
lenders were imposing on home-equi ty lending. Most of the bank lending officers contacted for 
III - 3 
this report said that commercial and industrial lending was on the rise. They indicated that loan 
demand was coming from firms in many industrie s and from nonprofit institutions. However, 
bankers generally indicated that they were continuing to limit le nding for real estate 
development. One banker commented that this type  of lending has “ground to a halt.” Consumer 
lending was on the rise, although some banks noted  that credit card loan growth had eased 
recently. Several banks reported deterioration in  credit quality across all loan categories, 
although most indicated that delinquencies and ch arge-offs have increased only slightly. In 
general, banks in the District have continued their efforts to increase deposits. In  contrast to 
market conditions earlier in the year, however, th ey noted that competition for deposits has eased 
and, as one banker said, “depos it pricing has become a bit more judicious.” Looking ahead, 
bankers generally foresee slow growth in overall lending during the rest of the year. They expect 
commercial and industrial lending growth to continue  at about the current ra te, but some expect a 
slowing in consumer loan growt h, and most anticipate little or no gain in  real estate lending. 
 
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate activity in the thir d District has shown some seasonal improvement 
in recent weeks but remains well below the pace of  a year ago. Residential real estate agents 
reported sales of existing homes were edging up modestly in many parts of the region, and new 
home sales have increased slightly in some areas, as well. However, real estate agents noted that 
the average time homes are on the market has no t declined and inventor ies of homes for sale 
remain high. In general, residen tial real estate contacts do not expect housing activity to expand 
strongly this year. One noted that the “correction has a year to run at least,” and another said “a 
real construction rebound will occur in 2009.” 
Commercial real estate firm s indicated that construction, leasing, and purchase activity 
have eased since the winter. Neve rtheless, overall office vacancy ra tes have edged down in most 
markets. Rents have remained stable for class A buildings, but have falle n for class B buildings. 
Contacts anticipate that sluggish activity will  persist as long as economic conditions remain 
uncertain or, as one contact phrased it, “unt il the next up-tick in the capital markets.” 
   
III - 4 
Prices and Wages 
Reports of increases in input costs and output prices from Th ird District business contacts 
continued to be as prevalent in May as in Apr il, and for many of the same goods. Firms in the 
region noted increases in the pri ces of food products, chemicals, industrial materials, and metals. 
They also reported rising costs for energy. Firms not ed increases in the pri ces of a wide range of 
imported goods, and they expect import prices to rise further. Most of the firms reporting on 
employment costs in May indicated that wage  increases remained moderate. Some contacts 
noted that slower business activity or delays in expansion plans were resu lting in reductions in 
current and prospective employment. 
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Economic activity in the Fourth District has been  stable since early April.  Factory output 
and shipments by steel producers were steady to in creasing.  Production at au to assembly plants 
rose slightly.  The housing industr y remains weak, with little exp ectation of improvement for the 
remainder of the year.  Commercial building contractors reported steady business activity, 
although there is some concern about weakening backl ogs.  Sales by District re tailers were flat to 
improving.  Bankers reported th at lending standards continue to tighten, though credit remains 
available.  Demand for business loans was mixed,  while lending to households has weakened.  
Energy production was stable, a nd the demand for freight trans port services was flat.    
On balance, employment levels were larg ely unchanged across the District.  Several 
contacts reported modest wage pressure.   Staffing firms saw little net change in the number of 
job openings, while the number of job seekers incr eased.  Job vacancies were greatest in health-
care-related fields.  A significant rise in comm odity-based input prices was reported across the 
board.  
Manufacturing.  Output by District factor ies was stable to increas ing during the past six 
weeks.  Reports of increased production were attr ibuted primarily to seasonal adjustments or 
rising demand by customers in energy-related industrie s.  On a year-over-year basis, reports were 
evenly split between production slowdowns and in creases, with only one company experiencing 
a significant increase.  The outl ook of manufacturers is best desc ribed as guarded, with several 
contacts noting a softening in demand.  Steel sh ipments were stable to increasing for producers 
and service centers.  The stronge st end markets for steel incl ude energy and heavy equipment 
manufacturing.  Contacts expect steel demand to re main at current levels  or decrease slightly 
during the third quarter.  Distri ct auto production showed a sli ght uptick in April on a month-
over-month basis.  Output by domestic nameplates  increased, while their foreign counterparts 
showed a small decline.  In terms of year-over-year comparisons, auto production was down appreciably.   
For the most part, capital spending remains on plan, with little cha nge expected in the 
upcoming months.  Reports of decreased capital e xpenditures were tied to lower sales forecasts.  
Although standards have tightened, access to credit is not an issue for manufacturers.  All our 
IV - 2  
contacts reported substantial price increases for raw materials, especially metals and petroleum-
based inputs.  In response, over tw o-thirds of our contac ts either raised th eir product prices or 
increased surcharges.  Further, most contacts are considering additional price increases in the 
near future if input costs conti nue to rise.  Those manufacturer s who did not raise prices sell 
primarily to the housing industry.  About a third of our respondents said they had recently hired a 
small number of workers, some on a temporary ba sis.  Other manufacturer s noted that they had 
increased overtime in place of new hiring.  Wage pressures are not a major issue at this time, 
though many respondents expressed concern about rising health care costs.  
Real Estate.   New home sales were flat to declin ing, while inventory levels remain high.  
Even though there has been a slight pickup in  traffic, almost all home builders expect no 
improvement in the housing industry for the rema inder of 2008.  New home prices have been 
relatively stable since our last report, though di scounting has increased.  Accounts of dramatic 
increases in steel, concrete, a nd fuel costs were widespread; in  contrast, lumber prices were 
stable.  Several general contra ctors reported reductions in sta ff and that subcontractors are 
readily available at competitive rates.        
Commercial contractors said th at business has been steady over the past six weeks, with 
several noting an increase in activity on a year-over-y ear basis.  However, several builders 
mentioned that backlogs are w eakening.  Further, owners and developers are finding it more 
difficult to obtain project funding due  to stricter credit standards.  Most contractor s experienced a 
rise in the cost of materials, especially for steel and concrete.  Workforce levels remain largely 
unchanged.    
Consumer Spending.  District retailers reported flat  to improving sales across all 
segments since our last report.  However, our contacts are very cautious in their outlook for the 
third quarter, with the majority expecting sales to  be relatively flat.  Reports from auto dealers 
showed that new and used car sales across the Di strict were mixed, while purchases of SUVs and 
trucks declined.  Dealers anticipate litt le change in sales during the coming weeks.   In general, 
vendor price increases were limited to food items , paper products and fuel surcharges.  Most 
retailers have passed these increas es through to their customers.  Capital expenditures remain on 
plan, albeit at reduced levels compared to 2007.  Employment growth is limited to staffing new 
IV - 3  
stores.   
Banking.  Demand for commercial and industrial lending was mixed.  Segments showing 
strength include commercial real estate and sm all business loans.  Consumer loan demand has 
weakened, especially for autos.  Nonetheless, a few contacts noted a pick up in home equity lines 
of credit.  Most respondents experienced a sli ght increase in delinquencies.  An uptick in home 
mortgage originations was attrib uted to seasonal factors and is not seen as the beginning of a 
trend.  Bankers told us that cr edit is available, though lending st andards continue to tighten.  
Reports on core deposits were mixed.  Employment  levels across District banks showed a small 
net decline, and a few bankers are expe riencing modest wage pressures.   
Energy.  On balance, there has been little change in  oil, gas and coal production.  
However, energy producers reported a pickup in oil and gas drilling.  Looking forward, almost 
all our contacts told us they exp ect to see a rise in production activity.  Reports indicate that spot 
and contract prices have increa sed across the board.  In general,  equipment and material costs, 
especially fuel, were on the rise .  Capital expenditures were on plan or slightly higher than 
projected, with half of our res pondents telling us they expect to increase the number of capital 
projects during the next few months.  Employme nt levels increased sl ightly, and producers are 
looking to expand payrolls.  However,  many of them told us that it is difficult to attract qualified 
workers, which is contributing to so me upward pressure on wages.   
Transportation.   Freight transport has been flat since our last report, with volumes 
running below available capacity.  Most carriers e xpect current market conditions to continue 
into the second half of 2008, with some modest improvement to ward the end of the year.  All our 
contacts noted a significan t jump in fuel prices, which they we re largely able to pass through via 
a surcharge.  Freight pricing remains competitive;  however, as excess capacity is removed from 
the system, some contacts believe prices will be gin to strengthen.  Capital expenditures were 
reported to be somewhat below projected plans.  Carriers expect that future expenditures will not 
increase until freight volumes st art to pick up.  Hiring was lim ited to driver turnover, and no 
change in wages was reported.   
V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview.  On balance, economic activity in the Fifth District edged lower in late April and 
May.  Retailers reported declining activity in recent weeks, due in part to higher food and energy 
prices sapping consumers’ available income.  Home sales remained sluggish across most of the District, and commercial real estate leasing was soft.  In addition, commercial lending eased further 
as some lenders tightened credit standards.  Manufacturing activity also slipped, though several contacts noted that export demand continued to be a bright spot.  Many services providers reported 
slower revenue growth in recent weeks, although some resort locations saw increased activity over the Memorial Day weekend.  Manufacturers and retailers trimmed payrolls and services firms reported little new hiring activity.  On the price front, contacts reported generally higher prices in recent weeks.  Manufacturing contacts stated that rising energy and transportation costs were being 
passed through to final goods prices. 
 Retail.  According to most retail contacts, sales declined in recent weeks.  The general 
manager of a department store in an upscale area near the Washington, D.C., beltway told us that his 
customers were now waiting for clearance sales.  At a sporting goods store in West Virginia, the manager said he was watching inventory levels, “with an eye towards a downward adjustment.”  Although contacts at District grocery stores reported more rapid revenue growth in recent weeks, a spokesperson for several retailers in central Virginia told us that "the same wallet is buying less" at grocery stores in his locale, leading to inventory adjustments.  Sales of automobiles and light trucks generally remained in the doldrums, but a dealer in West Virginia told us his hybrid sales have risen more than 50 percent from a year ago.  District retailers continued to cut jobs and wage growth leveled off.  Retail prices, however, moved higher. 
 Services.  Revenue growth slowed at services firms since our last report.  A financial 
services executive in Baltimore, Md., and a central Virginia brokerage contact said that clients 
remained "very nervous."  However, the Baltimore contact told us credit markets appeared to be improving in recent weeks.  A contact at a national freight trucking business in North Carolina reported that recent bankruptcies in the trucking business led to a slight uptick in demand at his company.  According to that contact, his company’s profit margin shrank because higher diesel fuel prices were not entirely recovered through contracts.  The one pocket of strength was telecommunications.  Several contacts in that category reported a pickup in revenue growth.  The pace of hiring at services firms was nearly flat in recent weeks.  Wage growth in the sector moderated and price growth was little changed since our last report. 
V-2  
Manufacturing.  District manufacturers reported a modest decline in activity in May as new 
orders and shipments edged into negative territory.  Contacts largely attributed the lower pace to 
weaker domestic sales.  A manufacturer at a North Carolina apparel factory reported a boost in foreign sales, but noted that the advantage had been largely negated by increased raw material costs.  Similarly, a furniture manufacturer in North Carolina reported that exchange rate movements were forcing price increases for imported products despite soft demand nationally.  Respondents were noticeably more concerned about rising energy and transportation costs.  An automotive parts producer in West Virginia echoed these concerns, describing the rate of increase as “alarming” with transportation costs, primarily fuel surcharges, continuing to increase almost daily.  Accordingly, the price of finished manufactured goods rose somewhat across the District as producers found they could no longer simply absorb these higher costs.  
 Export activity at Fifth District ports “stayed strong” with notable outbound volumes of 
heavy equipment and full containers despite a dip in domestic auto shipments.  Import volumes flattened since our last report.  Inbound container ships remained near capacity, but imports of bulk building materials such as lumber and plywood conti nued to slump.  Port officials reported that rising 
fuel costs persisted in recent weeks, but not enough to offset activity “as of yet.” 
Finance.  Residential lending activity slowed a bit in recent weeks as the number of 
mortgage originations fell slightly and refinances continued to taper off.  Contacts in Richmond, Va., 
Raleigh, N.C., and Hilton Head, S.C., reported a decrease in demand since early April, and a Charleston, S.C., lender said his firm had not seen the “normal pickup that comes with the spring buying season.”  Interest rates on mortgages were relatively steady, although a contact in Charlotte, N.C., noted rates had moved a touch higher in the last two weeks.  Several lenders said they again reduced loan-to-value ratios over the last six weeks, while contacts in Hilton Head, S.C., and Charlotte, N.C., reported raising credit score requirements a bit further.    On the commercial lending front, reports on activity were mixed.  In Charleston, W.Va., and Charlottesville, Va., contacts noted a slight pickup in activity, while other lenders covering the Carolinas and Virginia reported demand as steady.  A Baltimore, Md., contact noted that “if they can, clients are holding off on transactions.”  Interest rates on commercial loans generally dipped since April.  Lenders in Charlottesville, Va., and Baltimore, Md., however, reported that rates had edged higher more recently but were “competitive for qualified clients.”  Reports on credit standards revealed modest tightening at some institutions. 
 Real Estate.  While Fifth District Realtors continued to report generally sluggish home sales 
in recent weeks, marginal improvements in sales were noted by agents in Charlotte, N.C., and in 
V-3  
Fredericksburg, Va.  Other contacts noted that they were not seeing the kind of activity typical for 
this season.  An agent in Greensboro, N.C., said he was “having a tough time getting sales,” adding that negative press reports had people “still holding back.”  Inventory levels continued to swell in several areas in the District and a few agents told us they had noticed an increase in foreclosures.  House prices remained relatively stable across most of the District in recent weeks.  A Richmond, Va., Realtor noted that prices were more reflective of what buyers were paying two years ago.  Commercial real estate market conditions softened further.  Leasing activity generally cooled across the Fifth District in late April and May.  Contacts in Columbia, S.C., Baltimore, Md., and the Washington D.C., suburbs noted weaker demand for office space in their markets.  However, contacts in Raleigh, N.C., and Charleston, W.Va., reported demand as steady.  Leasing activity for retail space “slowed notably” in Columbia, S.C., and was “sluggish” in Richmond, Va.  Vacancy rates were flat across most of the District , but edged a bit higher in the Washington, D.C., 
metropolitan area for both office and retail space.  Rental rates were mostly firm, although contacts in Baltimore, Md., and Washington, D.C., noted an uptick in concessions being offered to clients.  Financing remained a challenge according to contacts in Raleigh, N.C., and Columbia, S.C.  Agents reported little to no new construction, and contacts in Baltimore, Md., and Washington, D.C., saw projects shelved until “at least next year.” 
 Tourism.  Tourist activity was mixed across the District since our last report.  Contacts at 
mountain resorts in Virginia and West Virginia  reported stronger bookings for the Memorial Day 
weekend compared to a year ago.  A manager at a mountain resort in Virginia attributed the increase to exceptionally pleasant weather and families taking vacations closer to home because of higher gas prices.  Tourist activity at coastal areas varied, however.  A hotelier on the Outer Banks of North Carolina reported brisk restaurant sales and hotels and motels filled to capacity, while a contact in Virginia Beach, Va., noted a pullback in the number of visitors and the occupancy rate.  Moreover, a contact in Myrtle Beach, S.C., told us that vacationers had reduced their average length of stay by one-third and their discretionary spending by 40 to 45 percent.  
 Temporary Employment.  Fifth District temporary employment agents reported somewhat 
weaker demand for workers in recent weeks.  Contacts in Richmond, Va., and in Hagerstown, Md., 
told us that demand for workers had tapered off due to a general weakening in the economy.  However, contacts in Raleigh and Cary, N.C., were optimistic that demand for workers would improve over the next several months due to the strength of their local markets, their staffing specializations, and the gradual increase in orders being placed by their existing clients.  Demand for 
V-4  
workers was strongest for warehouse and distri bution centers, medical, mortgage, professional 
services and life sciences industries.  
 Agriculture.  Cooler-than-normal temperatures in recent weeks slowed the planting and 
development of District crops.  Soybeans, sweet corn, and cucumber plantings were well behind 
schedule in Maryland, while plantings of peanuts and soybeans were slightly behind in Virginia.  Furthermore, corn was replanted in several counties of Virginia due to the cooler weather.  Agricultural analysts noted that crop conditions remained in mostly good condition throughout the District, despite dry conditions in some areas of North and South Carolina.  Small grain harvesting began in Virginia with the majority of the crop in good to excellent condition.
 
 
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
 Summary.  Sixth District business contacts indicated that overall economic 
activity remained weak from mid-April through May.  Several retailers and auto dealers 
reported that sales were disappointing, but t ourism activity continue d to be positive.  
Reports from homebuilders and Realtors indi cated that home sales and prices remained 
below year-ago levels.  However, most Flor ida homebuilders we contacted stated that 
new home sales were flat to slightly up on a year-over-year ba sis.  District contractors 
indicated that commercial development rema ined soft and most industrial contacts 
reported that production and shipments we re down from year-ago levels.  Banking 
industry contacts reported loan demand for all types of loans was sli ghtly lower.  Labor 
markets displayed additional signs of weakness with contacts in several industries citing 
plans to limit hiring and, in some cases, redu ce payrolls.  Further price increases were 
noted in energy, metals, and agricultural goods .  Business’ ability to pass through higher 
input costs to customers varied.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  District merchants reported that the pace of 
sales decelerated from year-ago rates during late April and May, with overall activity 
described as below expectations and invent ories higher than a y ear ago.  Weakness in 
building materials and home-related durables persisted.  The outlook among retail 
contacts was mixed, but most di d not expect a significant in crease in sales in the near-
term.  Most auto dealers reported disappoint ing sales during late April and May for both 
domestic and import brands.  Inventories of  trucks and SUVs were up significantly in 
early May, according to industry reports.  Demand remained healthy for hybrid and 
small-engine vehicles, however.  Tourism-re lated sales in the Dist rict remained strong 
with international visitors boosting activity in Florida, and the New Orleans convention 
and tourism sector continued to improve. 
Real Estate.  Reports from homebuilder and Real tor contacts indicated that new 
and existing home sales remained below year-ago  levels in April and May in most areas.  
For the first time in over two years, Florida homebuilders reported that new home sales 
were flat to slightly up on a year-over-year basis.  Sales of new homes outside Florida 
were described as below year-ago levels.  R ealtors in Florida and other Sixth District 
states conveyed that existing home sales remained below year-ago levels.  Both 
VI-2 
homebuilders and Realtors continued to note declining home prices throughout the 
District.  New home inventories continued to moderate while inventories of existing 
homes increased.   
Reports from District c ontractors indicated that the pace of commercial 
development was below that of a year-ago.  The majority of contacts continued to report 
that commercial construction declined during late April a nd May compared with a year 
ago.  Order backlogs continued to shrink wh ile material costs continued to rise.   
Manufacturing and Transportation.  Most industrial contacts reported that 
production and volume of shipments were dow n from year-ago levels.  In addition, many 
cited higher production costs and cuts in empl oyment or hours.  Sl umping home sales and 
weak construction have led to layoffs in District companies producing items such as 
carpet, appliances, and building materials.  Automobile production continued to decline 
as well.  Steel, defense-related, and en ergy-related production increased further, 
according to contacts..   
Trucking and rail contacts re ported lackluster activity in late April and May.  
Freight demand remains soft, and escalating dies el prices have added pressure to several 
regional trucking firms.  Regional rail activity was reportedly down through mid-May 
from year-ago levels, with a sharp drop in  shipments of automotive and construction 
materials offsetting gains in coal and farm products.  Inter-modal shipments were down 
slightly from year-ago levels .                                                                                                                              
Banking and Finance.  District contacts reported lo an demand for all types of 
loans was trending slightly lower.  Demand for mortgages was particularly weak, while 
consumer and retail loan demand was describe d as soft.  Commerci al loan demand was 
reported as mixed and varied by location.  Lenders are applying st ricter underwriting 
standards for most types of loans.  Deposit gr owth was generally described as restrained 
at District banks. 
Employment and Prices.  Labor markets weakened in late April and May with 
many construction firms and building material s suppliers noting plan s to decrease their 
labor force.  Contacts in se veral other industries plan to  limit hiring in the immediate 
future and, in some cases, cut payrolls as well.   
VI-3 
Fuel and petrochemical price increases we re noted across the District.  Increases 
in the prices of metals a nd agricultural goods were also observed.  There were more 
reports of these price increases being pa ssed on.  However, notable exceptions were 
construction firms, building materials producers,  and businesses that were restricted by 
existing fixed-price agreements  with their customers.   
Agriculture.  Spring  rains improved agricultural c onditions across much of the 
District.  However, some areas in Florida ha ve had no significant rainfall since April.  
With dry pasture conditions, Florida ranchers  are reporting hay shor tages and are selling 
off livestock to relieve grazing pressures.  Agricultural firms across the region noted 
higher costs of fuel, fertilizer , and feed.  Market conditions  for local poultry and cotton 
remained favorable because of strong global demand and a favorable international pricing 
environment.   
 
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO 
Summary . Economic activity in the Seventh District  expanded in April and May, but at a 
slower pace than in the previ ous reporting period.  Consumer  spending was sluggish, and labor 
market conditions weakened some, although they continued to vary by industry and location.  
Residential construction showed signs of stab ilizing and nonresidentia l construction steadily 
increased.  Manufacturing activity weakened slightly, but busine ss conditions remained solid.  
Consumer lending declined, while business lending remained strong.  Cost pressures from rising 
material and energy prices increas ed significantly from the previ ous reporting period, while wage 
pressures remained low.   Delays in planting crops led to expe ctations of small losses in yield.  
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending remained sl uggish in April and May.  Higher 
food and energy prices coupled with a weakening labor  market in some areas of the District limited 
consumer demand.  Retail sales were steady, but margins were squeezed for many retailers as low 
pricing power combined with higher wholesale prices create d a tough business environment. 
Gasoline sales were down as was tourism and business travel.  As a result, ac tivity in the hotel and 
food service industries weakened considerably. Light  vehicle sales also sl owed, although inventory 
levels remained at comfortable levels.  Deal ers observed that the composition of demand was 
increasingly shifting towards smaller, fuel effi cient cars and used vehicles as consumer budgets 
tightened and gasoline prices contin ued to move higher.  Several c ontacts in this industry also 
mentioned a decline in auto loan quality in recent months. 
Business spending. The pace of business spending was little changed from the previous 
reporting period.  However, severa l manufacturing contacts reporte d plans to take advantage of 
more favorable terms of trade and avoid risi ng transportation costs by bringing back production 
from overseas.   Employment conditions in the District weakened slightly, with Michigan and 
Wisconsin exhibiting larger declines.  The demand  for labor was weak in  the construction, retail 
trade, and hotel and food service industries . Lay-offs were reported in the manufacturing, 
automotive, and financial services industries.  Professional and business se rvices and health care 
remained bright spots for hiring, and the demand fo r skilled labor remained strong as shortages of 
such workers continued to be reported.  Staffing fi rms’ billable hours were stable from the previous 
reporting period.  However, a contact in this indu stry continued to report unwillingness on the part 
of small to mid-size clients to agree to longer te rm contracts due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
current business environment.   
 
 VII-2
Construction/real estate . The pace of construction stabiliz ed from the previous reporting 
period.  The decline in residentia l construction slowed in April a nd May for much of the District, 
and several contacts expressed th e belief that it may be approaching a bottom for the Midwest.  
Absorption rates of residential housing remained low, but began to increase in many areas as 
cancellations declined and prices sh owed signs of stabilizing.  Howeve r, credit availability for new 
developments remained tight, and many builders continued to suffer losses on existing projects. 
Demand slowly returned to some ma rkets as inquiries were reported to have increased, particularly 
among first-time home buyers.  However, many poten tial buyers were finding it difficult to obtain a 
mortgage.  Nonresidential development and cons truction steadily increase d outside of Michigan, 
reflecting mostly major infrastructure projects.  Several contacts noted that declining credit 
availability for medium and large-scale projects,  such as hotels, was significantly reducing the 
project pipeline and would be limiting growth going forward.   
Manufacturing . Manufacturing activity in the District weakened slightly from the previous 
reporting period; but, overall, bus iness conditions remained favorab le.  Activity continued to be 
robust in the domestic steel indu stry.  Production was running near full capacity and contacts in 
several downstream industries reported limited availa bility of steel-related materials.  Demand for 
heavy machinery in areas such as  large-scale agriculture , oil and gas extraction, mining, and aircraft 
also remained strong.  Export-oriented industries continued to flourish, with many contacts citing 
advantageous terms of trade. However, demand con tinued to be soft for ma nufacturers with close 
ties to residential housin g, particularly the building material s and home appliance industries. 
Automakers reported domestic sales were below exp ectations as price discount s were insufficient to 
move larger vehicles.  Contacts in  the auto industry also expresse d concern about falling consumer 
confidence and the fact that activ ity was approaching levels not s een for over twenty-five years. 
Production cuts have been implemented, and it was reported that lost production from the recent 
American Axle strike would not be made up. 
Banking/finance . Overall, credit market conditions in the District were little changed from 
the previous reporting period.  Consumer loan dema nd continued to decline and lenders marginally 
tightened standards.  Loan quality, however, a ppeared to be stabilizing.  Home equity loans 
increased and home equity lines of credit were fl at, although both remained below levels typical for 
the current pricing environment.  Mortgage refina ncing decreased and mortgage originations were 
low, and contacts reported that  lending remained concentrated among fixed-rate and conforming 
mortgage products.  Business loan demand increased  slightly, particularly  for commercial and 
 
 VII-3
industrial loans.  However, concer ns about the commercial real estate sector and the inability of 
banks to syndicate these loans continued to limit the availability of credit to this market.   
Prices/costs . Costs rose substantially for a variety of inputs from the previous reporting 
period.  Rising costs for commodity and ener gy inputs were cited by contacts in numerous 
industries, and there were several reports of pa ss-through of the higher cost s to other prices.  A 
contact in the financial servic es industry noted that many co mmodity traders were extending 
positions out to five years in anticipation of even higher commodity prices. Many contacts cited the rising price of steel and related me tals as a significant factor in their costs, with one manufacturing 
contact noting that steel su rcharges had surpassed the base materi al costs.  Retailers reported that 
they were finding it more difficult to limit the pass-through of higher wholesale food and energy 
prices to consumers.  Rising fuel  prices were also reported as c ontributing to higher transportation 
costs and a reduction in labor mobility.  Conversely, a contact in the construction industry reported 
that wallboard prices had declin ed to the degree that they no  longer covered production costs.  
Wage pressures were limited outside of the ski lled labor positions that continue to experience 
shortages and a report of union wage demands from so me skilled trades in the construction industry.   
Agriculture . Wet and cool weather resulted in wide spread planting dela ys during April and 
May. Nonetheless, by the end of the reporting pe riod corn planting was nearing completion and 
soybean planting was well underway. As a result, th e emergence of corn and soybean plants was 
behind the normal pace in most of the District. However, contacts expected relatively small losses 
in yield, though some ground will require replanti ng. On the plus side, high levels of subsoil 
moisture provide some insurance against drought th is summer. Corn prices drifted lower during the 
reporting period, while soybean prices picked up  again. These price movements and high input 
costs for corn held back the shift toward extra corn acres. Milk, cattle, and hog prices increased. 
Margins of livestock producers remained tight due to  rising feed costs, which also were reported to 
be causing producers to pare back herds.
 
.  
 
 VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
Overall economic activity in the Eighth District has remained roughly flat since our previous 
report.  Contacts in the manufacturing and services sectors noted slight increases.  Retail and auto sales declined in April and early May compared with a year  ago.  April year-to-date home sales and residential 
construction continued to weaken throughout the Dist rict compared with the same period in 2007, while 
commercial real estate market conditions were mixed in the first quarter of 2008 relative to the fourth 
quarter of 2007.  Lending activity at a sample of large District banks decreased moderately in the first quarter of 2008 relative to the fourth quarter of 2007. 
Consumer Spending 
Contacts reported that retail sales in April and early May were down, on average, over year-ago 
levels.  Half of the retailers reported decreases in  sales, whereas 21 percent reported increases.  About 47 
percent of retailers reported that sales levels met th eir expectations, 47 percent reported that sales were 
below expectations, and 5 percent reported that sales were above expectations.  Jewelry and food were 
strong sellers, while gift items, home décor, and cl othing moved more slowly.  About 42 percent of 
contacts reported that inventories were at desired levels; 50 percent reported too-high inventories and 8 
percent reported too-low inventories.  About 46 pe rcent of retailers expect sales to increase over 2007 
levels, and 42 percent expect sales to decrease. 
Car dealers in the District reported that, compar ed with last year, sales in April and early May 
were down, on average.  About 64 percent of the car  dealers surveyed reporte d a decrease in sales, while 
27 percent reported an increase.  About 38 percent of the car dealers noted  increased used car sales 
relative to new car sales and 71 percent reported in creased low-end vehicle sales relative to high-end 
vehicle sales.  One-third of the respondents reporte d more rejections of finance applications; none 
reported more acceptances.  About 43 percent of the car  dealers surveyed reported that their inventories 
were too high, and 22 percent reported that their inventories were too low.  Half of the car dealers expect 
 VIII-2 
increased sales for the summer over 2007 levels, and anot her 12 percent expect sales to be the same, but 
38 percent expect decreased summer sale. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity has increased slightly since our previous report.  Several manufacturers 
reported plans to open plants and e xpand operations in the near future , and a smaller number of contacts 
reported plans to close plants and reduce operations.  Firms in the chemical manufacturing and steel manufacturing industries reported plans to open ne w facilities and expand production in the District; 
contacts in frozen foods manufacturing and office supplies manufacturing industries reported plans to expand existing facilities and operations.  Firms in the above mentioned industries also reported plans to 
hire additional workers.  In contrast, contacts in th e motor vehicle, motor vehicle parts, furniture, and 
plastic manufacturing industries reported plans to la y off workers and decrease operations.  One firm in 
the electrical equipment and appliance manufacturing industry announced that it will close a plant in the 
District, and a firm in the frozen foods manufacturing industry announced that it will not rebuild a large operation destroyed by fire. 
The services sector has strengthened in most areas of  the District since our previous report.  
Contacts in the business support services industries repor ted plans to expand operations in St. Louis, 
Little Rock, and Louisville; a few firms in the fi nancial services industry announced plans to expand 
operations.  Firms in these industries also reported plans to hire additional workers. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales continued to decline throughout the Ei ghth District.  Compared with the same period 
in 2007, April 2008 year-to-date home sales declined  18 percent in Memphis and Louisville and 17 
percent in St. Louis and Little Rock.  Residential cons truction also continued to decline.  April year-to-
date single-family housing permits fe ll in all but one District metro area compared with the same period in 
2007.  Permits declined 53 percent in Memphis, 40 per cent in Louisville and St. Louis, and 33 percent in 
Little Rock. 
 VIII-3 
The District’s commercial real estate market conditions were mixed.  The first-quarter 2008 
industrial vacancy rates in St. Louis and Louisville decreased over the fourth quarter of 2007, while industrial vacancy rates in Memphis and Little Ro ck increased slightly.  During the same period, 
suburban office vacancy rates decreased in St. Loui s and Louisville but increased in Little Rock and 
Memphis.  Downtown office vacancy  rates showed no change in Louisville, decreased in St. Louis and 
Memphis, and increased in Little Rock.  Contacts in Memphis reported slowed development of industrial 
projects.  Contacts in south-central Kentucky reporte d that commercial construction is relatively strong, 
with considerable commercial c onstruction planned throughout the Bowling Green area.  Contacts in 
Louisville reported a stable volume of work  among nonresidential construction contractors.  
Banking and Finance 
A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of la rge District banks showed a moderate decrease in 
overall lending activity in the first quarter of 2008 rela tive to the fourth quarter of 2007.  During this 
period, credit standards for commercial and industria l loans tightened somewhat, while demand for these 
loans varied slightly from moderately weaker to m oderately stronger.  Credit standards for commercial 
real estate loans were tightened somewhat duri ng this period, while demand for these loans was 
moderately weaker.  Credit standards for consumer  loans ranged from unchanged to tightened somewhat, 
while demand ranged from about the same to moderate ly weaker.  Credit standards for residential 
mortgages were tightened, while demand for these loans ranged from about the same to moderately 
weaker. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Frequent wet and cool weather conditions sin ce early April have delayed planting and crop 
growth throughout the District.  Planting of the ma jor crops—corn, soybeans, sorghum, cotton, and rice—
is behind its 5-year average pace.  Corn and soybean planting in Missouri has been delayed more than in 
other states in the District, but cotton and rice planting is ahead of normal.  Emergence of the major crops is also behind its normal pace throughout the District.   
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy grew at a sluggi sh pace since the last report. Decreased 
activity was noted in tourism, services, re sidential construction and real estate, and 
agriculture. Modest in creases in activity were noted in consumer spending, manufacturing, 
energy, mining and commercial real estate. Labo r markets were flat overall, while wages 
increased moderately. Significant price incr eases were noted for some metals, food, 
fertilizer, airline tickets and fuel. Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Overall consumer spending was soft. A bank di rector noted that re staurant sales were 
down from a year ago. Same-store sales at  a major Minneapolis -based retailer are 
estimated to be flat in May compared with a year earlier. Recent sales and traffic at a 
Minneapolis area mall were on par with last ye ar’s relatively high leve ls, according to the 
mall manager. Recent sales were level to up slightly compared with a year ago at a 
Montana mall, while Montana bank directors note d that sales at a vari ety of retailers in 
western Montana were generally flat. A Nort h Dakota mall reported that April sales were 
up 4 percent compared with a year ago; tr affic was strong over Memorial Day weekend. 
Traffic from Canada to Distri ct retailers near the border co ntinued at a strong pace; sales 
of used cars to Canadians have increased s ubstantially. Recent motor vehicle sales at a 
South Dakota dealer were up from a year ago.   Spring tourism was slow in a number of  areas due to cool, wet weather, but 
officials were cautiously optimistic for th e summer season. Visits to northwestern 
Wisconsin were down from a year ago, but t ourism businesses are anticipating a solid 
summer season, according to a chamber of commerce representative. Tourism activity 
was slow over Memorial Day weekend due to cold weather in western South Dakota. An 
official in Montana noted that advanced re servations related to summer travel were 
strong. A representative of a Mi nnesota-based travel agency noted that corporate travel 
sales were up, while leisure tr avel was down from a year ago.
   
Services Activity in the professional business services  sector contracted slightly. Preliminary 
results of the Minneapolis Fed’s annual survey  of professional services companies in May 
showed that profits and employ ment decreased from a year ago and are expected to remain 
IX-2 
flat over the next year.  Res pondents indicated that higher i nput costs and selling prices 
are pervasive across the sector.  
Construction and real estate 
Commercial construction activity increased sligh tly since the last repo rt. Developers were 
preparing to break ground on a 185-acre rese arch complex in Sioux Falls, S.D., and a 
number of new hotels were under constructi on. Residential construction decreased. Units 
permitted for construction in April fell 67 percent from a year earlier in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area and 37 percent in Sioux Falls. 
 Commercial real estate was up modestl y. The western portion of the District 
continued to expand. Mixed reports were noted  in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area as 
warehouse activity increased, but recent o ffice and manufacturing absorption was down. 
Market conditions for residential real estate continued to deteriorat e. April pending sales 
in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area were down more than 6 percent. Home prices fell by 
almost 4 percent statewide in Wisconsin.  
Manufacturing 
Overall manufacturing activity increased slightly  since the last repo rt. A May survey of 
purchasing managers by Creighton University (O maha, Neb.) indicated a mild increase in 
activity in Minnesota and the Dakotas. Severa l contacts noted that  capital expenditures 
are increasing in part due to  new federal tax incentives.  In South Dakota an energy 
equipment maker plans to expand its resear ch facilities. In North Dakota, a farm 
equipment manufacturer is expanding its produ ction facility. In Mi nnesota, a producer of 
water pumps is increasing capital investment  and a technology company is constructing a 
new production facility. However,  a Minnesota manufacturer of commercial construction 
materials reports somewhat weakeni ng demand over the past two months.  
Energy and Mining Activity in the energy and mining sectors incr eased since the last report. Robust oil and 
gas exploration and production continued in the District. A large wind farm expansion 
was announced in North Dakota. A dual purpose biodeisel plant is planned in Minnesota. 
Exploration, permitting and construction in th e mining industry continued at a solid pace 
since the last report.   
  
IX-3 
Agriculture 
Agricultural conditions weakened since the last report. Cold, we t conditions delayed 
planting and development of corn and soybean s in the eastern part  of the District. 
Meanwhile, drought conditions were severe in western North Dakota and eastern Montana. 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture expects corn, soybean and wheat prices to increase, 
and milk and hog prices to fall in 2008. Both  farmers and ranchers are concerned about 
higher input costs eroding profits. Employment, Wages and Prices 
Labor markets were flat overall with a number of layoff announcements balanced by 
reports of relatively tight employment in some areas. In Minnesota a medical devices 
producer recently announced plans to cut 350 jobs and a company th at manufactures life 
vests and water sport products recently announ ced plans to close a plant that employs 
over 100 workers. A producer of computer di skettes will close a North Dakota plant that 
employs 390 workers by the end of the year, earlier than originally planned. The State of 
Minnesota reported that the percentage of unemployed workers who ran out of 
unemployment benefits without finding a job was higher than a year ago. Recent business 
was generally slower at a te mporary employment agency in Minnesota compared with a 
year ago; however, demand to help comp anies fill full-time openings for existing 
positions remained relatively strong. In contra st, a number of contacts  in the Dakotas and 
Montana reported difficulty finding qualified workers.  
Overall wages increased moderately. Prelim inary results of the Minneapolis Fed’s 
survey of professional services  companies indicate wages and benefits are expected to 
increase 2.4 percent per worker over the next 12 months. However, recent total compensation 
package agreements for skilled construction workers increased 5 percent in Minnesota. 
Significant price increases were noted for some metals, food, fertilizer, airline 
tickets and fuel. Prices for steel and alum inum were up 35 percent and more than 15 
percent, respectively, over a year  ago with most of the increas e occurring in the past six 
months. A Montana bakery noted that flour pr ices increased 130 percent over the past three 
months, which led to a 25-cent to  50-cent increase in the price of a loaf of bread. Phosphate 
fertilizer prices were almost twice as high as last year, according to a bank director. A 
major Minnesota-based airline ra ised ticket prices in May in  response to increased fuel 
costs.  In contrast, lumber prices were down more than 10 percent from a year ago.  
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
Economic growth in the Tenth District remained modest in early April and May.  
Overall, consumer spending was flat and belo w expectations.  Manufacturing activity improved 
slightly due to rising exports.  Residential real estate activity rose seasonally and commercial real estate activity held steady.  High commodity prices fueled robust gains in energy and agricultural sectors.  Labor markets expanded slightly with some firms noting labor shortages.  Reports of wage pressures moderated, but input  and finished goods prices rose further. 
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending remained soft in May, despite solid travel 
and tourism activity.  Retail sales were flat compared to the previous survey period and were 
below expectations. Store managers expected sales to ease in coming months.  Mall traffic remained slow, partly attributed to higher gasoline and food prices limiting purchases of non-essential goods.  A few retailers noted weak jewelry sales. After a rebound in March, auto sales slumped, especially for trucks and SUVs, and access to credit tightened.  Auto dealers anticipated sales to remain sluggish even with aggressive sales incentives and discounts.  Non-profit organizations and social service agencies  reported more requests for financial assistance 
from low-income households. Travel and tourism activity strengthened since the last survey, aided by a lengthened ski season at many resorts.  Despite route reductions, air travel remained strong, especially in the Denver market.  However, one travel agent was pessimistic about future tourism activity as bookings have slowed with higher fuel costs.  Hotel occupancy and average room rental prices moved higher, and restaurants reported an uptick in sales despite a slight increase in menu prices. 
Manufacturing.  Manufacturing activity improved somewhat since March and early 
April, but remained sluggish compared to year-ago levels.  Export orders strengthened with 
several firms citing high overseas demand and increased domestic investment by foreign firms.  Production and employment levels stabilized while the volume of shipments increased, reducing inventories.  Expectations for future factory activity were generally positive, partly due to strong 
 
 X-2  
export demand.  Several firms reported that strong sales growth and high capacity utilization 
were driving plans to increase capital spending.  However, plant managers remained concerned that high input prices and transportation surcharges will continue to strain profit margins. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity strengthened seasonally 
from the last survey and commercial real estate activity held steady in late April and May.  
Realtors, mortgage lenders, and moving companies reported a seasonal pickup in sales that reduced home inventories.  Demand for lower priced homes was stronger than demand for high-end homes requiring jumbo mortgages.  Still, one realtor noted the market for first-time home buyers has slowed because higher living expenses constrained buyer efforts to save for a down payment.  Residential building permits remained well below year-ago levels although multi-family construction remained solid.  While home prices continued to edge down in most major markets, prices in rural and energy-intensive areas remained well above year-ago levels. Apartment vacancy rates were down across the District, prompting further rent increases.  Commercial real estate construction remained solid since the last survey though the number of sales declined.  Commercial vacancy rates edged up and rents stabilized after steadily increasing over the past year.  Developers reported commercial real estate prices may decline in some markets where absorption rates are down.   
Banking. Bankers reported tighter credit standards and somewhat stronger loan demand 
than in the previous survey.  Demand for residential real estate loans and consumer installment 
loans increased moderately, while demand for commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, and agricultural loans remained essentially unchanged.  Half of respondents reported a tightening of credit standards for commercial real estate loans, about the same fraction as in the previous survey.   Just under half of respondents reported tightened standards for commercial and industrial loans, up slightly from the previous survey.   Some respondents reported tighter standards for residential real estate and consumer installment loans.  Similar to the previous survey, just over half of the respondents said overall loan quality was down from a year ago.  However, respondents were somewhat more pessimistic about future loan quality, citing 
 
 X-3  
concerns about consumer and residential real estate loans.  Bank deposits were little changed.  
Energy.  District energy activity continued at a robust pace in April and May.  Led by 
Wyoming, the number of active drilling rigs surged since the last survey period and remained 
well above year-ago levels.  Energy firms planned to expand drilling activity in coming months to meet expected demand.  Companies reported that financing and equipment are available, though a shortage of skilled workers, especially geologists and engineers, continued to be a challenge for the industry. 
Agriculture.  Agricultural conditions strengthened further in late April and May.  Recent 
rainfall across much of the Plains eased drought concerns and improved pasture and growing 
conditions.  Despite weather delays, corn planting was almost complete and soybean planting was in progress.  The winter wheat crop wa s reported in good condition and yields were 
expected to be higher than last year in Kansas and Oklahoma.  Many local grain elevators have suspended offering forward contracts for wheat due to price volatility and hefty margin calls.  Livestock producers continued to lose money due to high feed costs.  Farmland values continued to post record annual gains and farm equipment sales remained robust.  Rapidly rising input costs were expected to trim farm incomes and limit capital spending. 
Wages and Prices.  Price pressures continued to build since the last survey period but 
wage pressures held steady.  District manufactur ers reported that rising raw materials prices, 
especially for steel and fuel, were contributing to  higher prices for finished goods.  Many District 
contacts reported paying fuel surcharges.  Farmers reported that higher input costs, especially for 
fertilizer, chemicals, seed, and fuel, were trimming profit margins.  Restaurants were also paying significantly higher prices for food and passing a por tion of the increased cost to diners.  Retail 
contacts reported higher selling prices since the last survey and expected further price increases in the coming months.  Builders paid higher prices for some construction materials, such as roofing and metal supplies, though lumber prices we re flat.  District labor shortages persisted, 
especially for minimum-wage positions and technically skilled workers, but most firms did not plan to raise wages.  District hiring announcem ents continued to outpace layoff announcements.   
 
  XI-1
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS 
Economic expansion in the Eleventh District contin ued to soften in late April and May, although 
activity in regions dominated by the energy industry remained robust. Businesses with national sales reported 
that economic growth in Texas is stronger than in the rest of the country.  
Retail sales growth continued to be weak, and service sector activity softened. Manufacturing was 
mixed but improved some. Constructio n and real estate activity weakened further. Financial service firms 
reported that loan demand is growing faster than deposits. Agricultural activity improved.  
Outside the energy industry, reco rd high costs are weighing heavily on profits and leading firms to 
be less optimistic about the outlook for growth through the end of the year. 
Prices.  Higher input prices, including those for en ergy, are pushing up production costs for most 
products and services. Rising energy costs put upward price pressure on a wide range of chemicals and 
plastics. Producers report high or rising prices for most raw materials, including copper, coal, steel, titanium and aluminum. A few producers are stockpiling materials to hedge against higher prices. Food prices 
continued to rise. 
These developments are putting upward pressure on selling prices for many products, and some 
firms are struggling to raise selling prices, increase fees or  reduce costs to survive. In the near term, retailers 
say competitive pressure will remain intense as weaker players go out of business and liquidate inventory. 
However, retailers say sizable input cost increases are projected and are expected to push up selling prices 
next year. Selling prices remained soft for most materi als used in residential construction because demand is 
weak and inventories high. 
Labor Market. The labor market remained relatively tight. There are still reports of difficulty hiring 
and skill shortages, such as for engineers, mechan ics and administrative positions. There has been little 
change in wage pressures, with the notable exception of increases for some truck drivers. However, some 
firms said they have already experienced or antic ipate upward pressure from lower income workers who 
 
  XI-2
commute long distances and are being squeezed by high fu el costs. Several industries noted an increase in 
health insurance costs. 
Manufacturing . Producers of materials used in home construction—such as brick, stone and 
lumber—reported a slight uptick in activity, but over all demand remained weak and significantly below last 
year. Inventory levels are high for some products, an d those manufacturers are cutting back on production 
and adjusting workforce levels. While brisk and abov e year-ago levels, demand fo r commercial construction 
materials continued to soften and is expected to steadily weaken. Hi gh prices are damping sales for some 
metals. Fabricated metals producers say smaller cons truction projects are going forward but big deals that 
require a significant amount of leverage are not. Domes tic steel sales are slowing, but there is strong demand 
from outside the United States, and producers say it has become more profitable to export than to sell 
domestically.  
Overall semiconductor sales have been flat over th e past thirty days. Demand from Europe and Asia 
remained strong, but U.S. sales have been weak. Demand for solar technology is hot, but much of the 
production is occurring overseas. Semiconductor equipm ent producers say recent signs of stabilization 
suggest the worst of the downturn in this cycle may be over.  
Sales of food products were uncha nged, although higher prices have changed the mix of products 
and customers. Demand for transportation equipment rema ined strong, with good sales to supply the defense, 
aircraft and energy industries. Improved margins and an  end to the maintenance season have led refiners to 
ramp up production and capacity utilization. Chemi cal production has also increased. Weak domestic 
demand has been partly offset by a surge in exports that has created a shipping logjam. Export demand is 
strongest for chemicals, such as ethylene, that are dom estically produced with natural gas and have a cost 
advantage over oil-based production in other parts of the world.  
Retail Sales.  Gains in retail sales continued to be slower  than last year. Retailers said growth has 
been weaker than they hoped becau se high fuel costs are limiting discretionary spending. Stores that extend 
credit reported a deterioration in timely payments. S timulus checks have increased spending at discount 
 
  XI-3
stores. Contacts say shoppers are looking for value, and sal es growth is expected to remain weak for several 
months. 
Automobile sales weakened slightly and remained  below year-ago levels. Inventories have increased 
for trucks and SUVs but are very low for fuel-efficient vehicles.     
Services . Demand for temporary staffing services was flat over the past six weeks at about the same 
level as a year ago. Orders were strongest for prof essional and technical workers in IT, accounting, energy 
and engineering services. Activity from the manufact uring sector edged up, bu t demand for entry level 
financial services and commercial real estate have slowed some.  
Legal activity continued to be strong, but the mi x of work suggests slower economic activity. Real 
estate transactions declined, but th ere has been an increase in litigati on and bankruptcy work. Oil and gas-
related activity also remained brisk. The accounting industry reported moderate sales.  
Rising fuel costs are straining the transportation industry. Intermodal shipping volumes continued at 
a level that is softer than earlier this year and a year ago. Exports have increased but not enough to offset the 
substantial decline in imports. Truckers say diesel pri ces have become too high to be fully covered by fuel 
surcharges and, in some instances, drivers have stoppe d their trucks or are leaving the industry. A few 
manufacturers said a shortage of truckers has caused de layed shipments and inventory buildup. The rate of 
contraction in small parcel cargo shipping is slowing.  Demand is stronger for leisure air travel than for 
business. International travel is stronger than domestic. Air fares are rising, and some carriers have reduced 
capacity in anticipation of reduced travel.  
Construction and Real Estate.  Housing activity continued to decline. New and existing home sales 
fell further, and some builders are abandoning planne d developments. Existing home inventories inched up, 
but remained low enough to keep median home pric es from falling by much. Apartment demand was solid, 
but there is increasing concern about oversupply in Houston and Austin, where construction activity has 
spiked.  
Office demand slowed, except in areas dominated by  the energy industry, such as Houston and Fort 
Worth. Industrial demand continued to weaken. Commerc ial construction levels are still high, but contacts 
 
  XI-4
say there are few new projects being initiated because it is difficult to obtain financing, particularly for large 
investments.  
Financial Services.  Partly reflecting reduced credit availab ility at nonbank lenders, loan demand at 
banks is growing faster than deposits , and banks have tightened standards to increase interest rate spreads. 
Community banks reported a strong increase in real esta te loan requests because other lenders are no longer 
funding these borrowers. Overall, past  due loans remain low, and there has been no significant decline in 
credit quality, although respondents expect deterioration.  
Deposit growth has been weaker than desired, a nd banks are turning to other sources of liquidity. 
Contacts reported some improvement in bank funding in recent weeks, with more access to a broader 
maturity range, but said conditions are not yet normal, and funding is expensive. Respondents indicated that 
there currently is sufficient liquidity  to finance quality deals, but expressed  some concern that this may not 
continue into the future. 
Energy.  Optimism about high oil and natural gas prices has pushed drilling to the highest level in 20 
years. So far, supplies of equipment and services have been sufficient to keep th eir price increases at bay. 
Agriculture.  Rain improved conditions in most areas, but  poor moisture in the Texas High Plains 
has led to lower projections for wheat yields. Li vestock are in good conditio n. Supplemental feeding 
continued in drier areas. High fuel and fertilizer costs are leading farmers to plan t soybeans instead of corn. 
Costs are rising, and farmers hope prices will be favor able at harvest time. Producers say market volatility 
has made it harder to use forward contracts to lock in crop prices. 
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District appe ars to have changed little during the survey 
period of late April through the end of May.  Upward price pr essures were subdued for most 
products but remained severe for food and ener gy-intensive items, while wage pressures 
continued to ease in some sectors.  Retail sales were weak and demand growth slowed for 
service providers.  Manufacturing activity held st eady or grew slightly on net, while producers of 
agricultural and natural resour ce products saw strong sales.  Housing markets remained 
exceptionally weak despite scattered reports of improved sales, and demand for commercial real 
estate continued to soften in some areas.  Banks and other financial institutions reported that loan 
demand was largely unchanged or fe ll slightly on net, and credit standards tightened further. 
Wages and Prices 
 Price inflation was modest for most produc ts but remained high for food and energy-
intensive items.  Final prices for many retail ite ms were largely stable or down.  However, 
continued price increases for some commodities and raw materials, such as steel and copper, are 
increasingly being passed through to final prices  for various goods.  In addition, many providers 
of transportation services have been passi ng on higher fuel prices  through surcharges.  
 Upward wage pressures were limited, with contacts noting only small increases in overall labor costs.  Reports indicated additional easing in wage pressure s in sectors that have seen 
reduced labor demand, such as construction, finan ce, retail, and real estate.  However, wage 
increases remained rapid for skilled workers in selected sectors, such as computer services. 
  
XII - 2 
Retail Trade and Services  
 Retail sales held steady or softened further,  with many respondents pointing to increases 
in food and energy prices as a restraining factor  on sales of other products.  For department 
stores and many smaller retail outlets, sales remain ed at low levels, causing inventories to rise 
and resulting in aggressive pr ice discounting.  Demand was firmer  for discount chains than for 
traditional department stores, and demand for c onsumer electronic products remained strong.  
Gasoline sales volumes were below their levels from 12 months earlier and continued to fall 
during the survey period.  Demand remained very weak for new and used vehicles, especially for 
larger vehicles with low fuel efficiency, for which sales were described as “dismal.” 
 Demand growth for service providers slowed  further on net.  Growth continued at a 
moderate pace for providers of health-care se rvices.  Demand weakened for providers of 
advertising and professional services, although one contact noted that demand for business 
enterprise software has “stabilized” after declinin g in earlier reporting periods.  Providers of real 
estate services, such as title insurance, faced very low levels  of activity and continued to reduce 
employment counts.  The tourism industry saw mixed but somewhat weak performance on net. 
Hotel bookings and visitor spending were character ized as weaker or declining in Southern 
California and also in Hawaii, where recent ai rline bankruptcies reportedly have held down 
visitor counts; in contrast, hotel occupancy rates in parts of Alaska  have been at record levels. 
Manufacturing 
 District manufacturing activity appeared to ho ld steady or grow sli ghtly on net during the 
survey period of late April through the end of May.  New orders have slowed for makers of 
commercial aircraft and parts, although production ac tivity remained at high levels due to 
existing order backlogs.  Semiconductor manufacture rs continued to report moderate growth in 
XII - 3 
revenues accompanied by balanced inventories and high rates of capacity utilization.  
Manufacturers of heavy equipment saw largely stab le demand on net, with strong sales of farm 
equipment noted.  By contrast, makers of w ood products continued to scale back production 
activity and employment.  Petroleum refiners ha d been operating at rela tively low utilization 
rates, but production activity rose recently.  Fo od manufacturers saw further growth in output 
and sales, but high commodity and fuel prices have crimped profit margins.  
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand and sales grew at a strong pace for agricultural items and natural resources.  
Domestic and overseas sales remained robust for a variety of tree and row crops and for 
livestock, and profits are expected to be abundant this year despite some offset due to high prices 
for inputs such as seeds and fertilizer.  Oil and natural gas extraction expanded further in 
response to growing demand, alt hough these activities reportedly were constrained slightly by 
tight availability of some type s of equipment and materials.  
Real Estate and Construction 
 
 Housing markets remained exceptionally weak  during the survey pe riod, while conditions 
in nonresidential real estate mark ets softened a bit further.  Unsold inventories of new and 
existing homes remained at unusually high levels  in most areas, causing further price drops, 
especially in parts of California, Arizona, and Ne vada that also have seen sharp increases in 
home foreclosures.  Scattered reports pointed  to a recent pickup in home sales, which was 
attributed to increased affordability due to lo wer prices.  On the nonresidential side, conditions 
weakened a bit further in some areas, with c ontacts noting reduced leasing activity and lower 
sales prices for commercial properties in the Sa n Francisco Bay Area and further increases in 
vacancy rates for commercial property in Las Vegas and San Diego.  
XII - 4 
Financial Institutions 
 District banking contacts reported that lend ing activity was largely flat or fell slightly 
relative to the previous survey period.  Reports on commercial a nd industrial lending suggested a 
slight easing overall, with so me contacts reporting weak dema nd and others reporting little 
change.  Lenders continued to tighten credit st andards, which remained especially strict for 
residential mortgages and construction loans.  Cr edit quality eroded a bit further, mainly for 
loans related to the housing sect or, with the most significant a dverse impacts on asset portfolios 
noted for smaller community banks.  