               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
               W e d n e s d a y                 July 17, 2013 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
  
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
July 2013 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
  
JULY 2013 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  
 SUMMARY ............................................................................................................. i  First District – Boston ...........................................................................................I-1  Second District – New York ............................................................................... II-1  Third District – Philadelphia..............................................................................III-1  Fourth District – Cleveland................................................................................IV-1  Fifth District – Richmond ................................................................................... V-1  Sixth District – Atlanta ......................................................................................VI-1  Seventh District – Chicago .............................................................................. VII-1  Eighth District – St. Louis............................................................................... VIII-1  Ninth District – Minneapolis..............................................................................IX-1  Tenth District – Kansas City............................................................................... X-1 
 
Eleventh District – Dallas ..................................................................................XI-1  Twelfth District – San Francisco...................................................................... XII-1 
i 
 
 Summary* 
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Dist ricts indicate that ov erall economic activity 
continued to increase at a modest to moderate  pace since the previous survey. Manufacturing 
expanded in most Districts since the previous report, with many Districts reporting increases in 
new orders, shipments, or production. Most Dist ricts noted that overall  consumer spending and 
auto sales increased during the reporting perio d. Activity in a wide variety of nonfinancial 
services was stable or increased  in most reporting Districts. Transportation was stable or 
increased in several Districts. Tourism remain ed strong in some repor ting Districts, although 
several Districts noted softness from bad weather. Residential real estate and construction 
activity increased at a moderate to strong pace in all reporting Districts. Commercial real estate 
market conditions and construction continued to improve across the Districts. Banking 
conditions generally improved across the Dist ricts. Credit quality improved, while credit 
standards remained largely uncha nged. Agricultural conditions we re mixed, as weather patterns 
varied, while extraction was gene rally stable or increased.  
Hiring held steady or increased at a measured pace in most Districts, with some contacts 
noting reluctance to hire permanent or full-tim e workers. Wage pressures generally remained 
contained, although some Districts reported modest or moderate wa ge growth in some sectors. 
Price pressures for inputs and final goods remained stable or modest. 
  
                                                            
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and based on information collected on or before July 8, 2013. 
This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve 
System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
ii 
 
 Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing increased in most Districts si nce the previous survey. The exception was 
Kansas City, which noted a slight contracti on, with storms retardi ng some activity. Most 
Districts reported stable or in creasing new orders, shipments,  and production. Reports from 
contacts in the Cleveland, Chicago, and St. L ouis Districts indicated moderate growth in 
manufacturing. The Minneapolis Di strict further noted that more  manufacturing firms increased 
activity than in the previous  report; the Boston, New Yor k, Richmond, Atlanta, and San 
Francisco Districts noted that the uptick was m odest; and the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts 
noted slight improvements. Firms in the Boston, Philadelphia, a nd San Francisco Districts were 
broadly optimistic about prospects for the s econd half of 2013, while manufacturers in the 
Richmond District were cautiously  optimistic; contacts expressed mixed outlooks in the Dallas 
District, and contacts in the Clev eland and Atlanta District do not  expect future production to be 
as high as previously projected.  
Strong demand in residential construction continued to st imulate the manufacturing 
sector in several Districts. Ho me-building suppliers in the Phila delphia and Cleveland Districts 
reported strong activity. Wood product manufacturers expande d operations and increased 
production in the St. Louis and San Francisco Distri cts. A cement producer in the Dallas District 
saw a very strong market. Demand for construction e quipment picked up in the Chicago District.  
Automobile manufacturing remained a source of strength in the Chicago, St. Louis and 
Minneapolis Districts. Steel and metal producti on increased in several Districts, including 
Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis , Dallas, and San Francisco. Fa bricated metal manufacturers 
in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts reporte d gains. Primary metal production was steady at 
strong levels in the Dallas District, while repor ts on primary metal orders in the Philadelphia 
iii 
 
 District were mixed. Specialty metal manufactur ers in Chicago saw m odest improvement in 
demand. The metal-forming business in Minneapolis  is having a very st rong year. Gains were 
reported by petroleum refining manufacturers in th e St. Louis and Dallas Districts. Reports on 
semiconductor orders in the Dallas District we re mixed, and semiconductor firms in the San 
Francisco District said sales increased subs tantially. Electronic equipment firms in the 
Philadelphia District re ported lower activity. Food producers in  the Philadelphia and Kansas City 
Districts saw weaker activity, while demand fo r heavy equipment in the Chicago District 
remained soft.  
Nonfinancial services activity was steady or  increased in the New York, Philadelphia, 
Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. Transportati on services were stable in 
the Richmond and Kansas City Di stricts, increased in the Cleveland, A tlanta, and Dallas 
Districts, and contracted in the St. Louis District. Consultin g service firms in the Boston, 
St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts have  experienced increased demand and expanded 
operations since the previous reporting period. A ccounting service contacts in the Richmond and 
Dallas Districts saw strong demand, while telecomm unication service providers in the Richmond 
and St. Louis District reported increased activity. High-tech service firms in the Kansas City 
District and a software design firm in the Rich mond District saw rising revenues, and software 
developers were in high demand in the San Francisco District. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Most Districts noted that overall consumer spending in creased during the reporting 
period. Reports from the Boston, Chicago, Ph iladelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts indicat ed modest or moderate growth in retail 
spending, while reports from the Cleveland, Kansas  City, and Dallas Distri cts indicated steady to 
iv 
 
 slightly higher sales. The New York District note d that retail sales in Ma y and June had softened. 
Retailers in the New York, Clevel and, Atlanta, and St. Louis Distri cts reported that sales had not 
met expectations. Contacts in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta 
Districts also noted that weathe r conditions constrained retail ac tivity. Demand for tech products 
was strong or increased in the Boston and San Francisco District s. The Kansas City District 
reported that appliance purchases were slow, whil e the Richmond District re ported that big ticket 
item sales were high. Inventories we re at desired levels or slightly high in the New York and 
Cleveland Districts, and remained tight in th e Chicago District. The outlook among retailers was 
positive in the Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts and cautiously optimistic in the St. Louis District.  
Most Districts that reported on automobile sales noted increased sales during the 
reporting period. Strong sales were reported in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
and San Francisco Districts. Reports from the Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas 
City Districts indicated steady to moderate sale s growth, and contacts in the Dallas District 
reported that sales were slightly softer than th e previous reporting peri od, although s till strong. 
New car sales increased in the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts, while they held steady at 
favorable levels relative to the same period last year in the New York District. Used car sales 
increased in the Cleveland, Richmo nd, St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts. Auto dealers in the 
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, a nd Minneapolis Districts reported strong sales for pick-up 
trucks. The Kansas City and Clev eland Districts expressed an optim istic outlook for future sales. 
Travel and tourism increased in the Bost on, Philadelphia, Richm ond, Atlanta, Kansas 
City, and Dallas Districts. The New York District  noted that tourism had been mixed but fairly 
robust since the previous report. San Francisco al so reported that travel  and tourism was mixed 
v 
 
 across the District. Weather conditions affect ed tourism in some areas of the Boston, 
Philadelphia, and Minneapolis Districts. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate activity increased at a moderate to strong pace in most Districts. 
Most Districts reported increases in home sales. Cleveland noted th at June sales of single-family 
homes were down compared with earlier in the spring but up from last year. Boston, New York, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted strong resi dential real estate markets. 
Home prices increased throughout the majority of the reporting Districts. Boston, New York, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas Ci ty, and Dallas noted low or declining home 
inventories and upward pressures on home prices in some areas. Residential construction activity 
also improved moderately across the Districts, an d contacts in New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco reported faster growth in multi-family construction, in 
particular. 
Commercial real estate market  conditions continued to impr ove across most Districts. 
New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Ch icago, St. Louis, Minnea polis, and San Francisco 
reported modest to moderate improvements in nonr esidential real estate activity. Dallas reported 
strong growth in leasing activity for office a nd industrial space. Boston and Richmond reported 
that commercial real estate conditions were holding steady or improving, depending on location. 
Nonresidential construction activ ity was stable or increased th roughout the nation. Philadelphia, 
Atlanta, and Richmond reported th at commercial construction wa s flat to slightly up, while 
Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, a nd Dallas noted improvements in commercial 
construction. 
vi 
 
 Banking and Finance 
Reports on banking conditions were generally positive across the Districts. Overall loan 
demand increased modestly across most reporting Di stricts. New York District bankers reported 
mixed but generally steady loan demand. Some ba nkers in the Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas 
Districts noted competitive pressures to reduce loan pricing. Bankers in the Philadelphia, 
Richmond, Cleveland, Atlanta, an d Chicago Districts noted a sh ift toward new home mortgages 
and away from refinancing (which was led, in part, by increases in interest rates). 
Reports on credit quality indi cated slight to moderate improvements across the reporting 
Districts. Improvements were no ted by the New York, Philadelphi a, Kansas City, and Dallas 
Districts. Credit standards remained largely unchanged, although some ba nkers in the Atlanta 
and Philadelphia Districts noted increased competition to ease credit standards.  
Agriculture and Natural Resource Industries 
Agricultural conditions varied across th e Districts because of differing weather 
conditions. Crop conditions improved in the Chica go and St. Louis District s, while agricultural 
production increased in the San Fran cisco District and is expected to improve in the Kansas City 
District. Extremely wet conditions delayed planti ng and even resulted in some farmers in the 
Richmond and Minneapolis Districts planting soyb eans instead of corn. Excessive rains in the 
Richmond District also damaged the wheat crop in  some areas. Contacts noted persistent drought 
conditions in some areas of the Kansas City a nd San Francisco District s and in most of the 
Dallas District. Winter wheat harvest output yields  were highly variable because of crop damage 
from freezing and drought in the Dallas and Kansas  City Districts. The condition of pastureland 
in the Atlanta and St. Louis District s improved since the previous report. 
vii 
 
 Coal production was lower compared with the same time last year for the Cleveland, 
St. Louis, and Richmond District s. Energy activity remained robust or steady at high levels in the 
Atlanta and Dallas District. Natu ral gas production was stable in  the Cleveland District and 
continued to increase in the Rich mond District. Drilling declined in the Cleveland District, was 
flat in the Kansas City Distri ct, and increased in the Richmond District. Oil and gas exploration 
was up slightly in the Minneapolis District. Mining was flat in the Kansas City District, weakened in the Chicago District, and wa s sluggish in the Minneapolis District. 
Employment, Wages, and Prices 
Hiring held steady or increased at a measured  pace in most Districts. Contacts in the 
Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicag o Districts were cautious or re luctant to hire permanent or 
full-time staff. The Richmond a nd Chicago Districts noted relatively stronger demand for part-
time workers. Transportation contacts in the Clev eland, Atlanta, and Kansas  City Districts noted 
some difficulty finding qualified drivers. Contacts in the New York, Richmond, and San 
Francisco Districts reported hi gh demand for technology workers. 
Most Districts reported that wage pressure s remained limited or contained. The Chicago 
and Minneapolis Districts reported moderate wage  pressures. The Chicago District noted that 
rising healthcare and other benef it costs were being passed onto employees. Contacts in the New 
York and San Francisco Districts noted that comp etition for technology workers had an effect on 
salaries. The Richmond District noted that wage  growth picked up in the manufacturing sector, 
remained robust at non-retai l establishments, and flatte ned at retail businesses. 
Overall consumer and input price pressures re mained stable or modest in most reporting 
Districts, although some District s noted price increases. Most not ably, the Cleveland, Atlanta, 
Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Fr ancisco Districts noted upward pressures on the prices of 
viii 
 
 construction materials. The Philadelphia and Rich mond Districts reported price increases for raw 
materials and finished goods among manufacturers.  The New York District reported that input 
price pressures have abated further in manufactur ing but remained widespread in services. Retail 
prices remained steady in the Boston, New Yor k, Cleveland, Kansas Cit y, and Dallas District, 
while retail price growth slowed in the Richmo nd District and wholesale retail prices increased 
in the Chicago District. 
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Economic activity in the First District continu es to expand at a moderate pace, according to 
business contacts.  Retailers, tourism contacts, manuf acturers and consulting and advertising contacts all 
report modest increases in sales.  Commercial real estate conditions are improving or holding steady, 
depending on location.  Residential real estate c ontacts report increases in both house prices and sales.  
Overall prices are rising at a modest pace, genera lly in line with cost increases. Most businesses are 
holding employment steady, with substantial sta ffing changes only at firms experiencing significant 
increases or decreases in sales.  Contacts generally expect the recent trend of moderate growth to continue.   Retail and Tourism 
Retailers contacted for this round report yea r-over-year comp-store sales increases ranging 
between 1 percent and 5 percent. One contact had a lo w single digit decrease, but notes that sales trends 
have been improving. Demand is st rong for all apparel categories, fu rniture, sporting goods, and mobile 
technology. Consumer sentiment continues to pick up , albeit very slowly, and prices at the wholesale and 
retail levels remain steady.  All of the contacts e xpect continued slow-growth of the U.S. economy.  
Through May, hotel revenues are up 1.5 percent year-over-year. Restaurant revenues are up 2 
percent, slightly better than expected. Contacts attr ibute these increases to strong corporate business travel 
and entertaining. There is some softness in domestic  leisure travel, as attendance at museums and other 
attractions is below expectations. Some of this d ecrease might be due to record-setting rainfall in New 
England during June. Contacts expect that leisure travel will increase during the summer travel season. 
Manufacturing and Related Services 
Most of the 13 manufacturers contacted in this round report modest increases in sales.  The one 
firm to report a significant decline in sales, a manuf acturer of electric motors and brakes, could not 
pinpoint any specific reason for the weakness.  Europe  remains a source of wea kness and China continues 
to inject volatility for manufacturing exports.  One cont act reports that sales in China of its products going 
into new commercial construction were up 46 percent in the second quarter.  Only one contact, a 
manufacturer of textile and printing equipment, speci fically mentions the evolving macroeconomic policy 
picture as an issue, saying that everything depends on what happens to interest rates.  All but one of our 
contacts say that their outlook is for stable or higher sales going forward, but none report having raised their forecasts in the recent months.  
Only one of our contacts cites significant staff reductions, the same firm that notes declining 
sales.  That said, the only firms hiring in any si gnificant way are rapidly growing companies in the 
technology and life science areas.  Most of our contacts, 8 of 13, report no change in employment. 
 
I - 2 
All of our contacts, including the one with declin ing sales, say that their investment plans have 
not changed and most report the same or higher levels of investment for 2013 as for 2012.  Our contact at 
the firm with declining sales says that they try not to  let the business cycle affect investment decisions as, 
“A good investment is a good investment.” 
As far as pricing is concerned, no one reports anything out of the ordinary.  Firms that need to 
raise prices, typically, appear to be able to do so; some raw materials prices, like copper, are less of an 
issue than they were a year ago.   
Selected Business Services  
Consulting and advertising contacts in the Firs t District report a generally positive, but not 
exuberant, second quarter. Economic co nsulting has experienced very st rong demand due to growth of 
high-stakes litigation. Healthcare and pharmaceutical s consulting contacts gave mixed reports, with 
several contacts reporting robust demand for services related to process efficiency, effectiveness analytics 
and marketing support, while anothe r reports a slowdown in IT adoption.  Strategy consultants had mixed 
results, with large firms faring better than smaller fi rms, largely due to greater exposure to the recently 
booming private equity industry. Marketing and adver tising contacts report a slight uptick in growth from 
an already strong first quarter.  Finally, a government contractor reports flat revenue. 
Contacts report either no cost growth or costs risi ng roughly in line with 2 percent inflation, with 
the exception of one firm whose health and business in surance premiums rose 8 percent to 10 percent on 
an annual basis. Firms were roughly split between those facing pressure to keep rates flat and those with 
robust enough demand to institute rate hikes of 3 per cent to 5 percent on an annual basis. About half of 
contacts report no net hiring, with the others increasing their workforces by 3 percent to 5 percent, mostly 
through larger incoming classes of entry-level work ers beginning this summer. Firms reporting no net 
hiring were split between those who are waiting for str onger demand to justify hiring and those who hired 
rapidly in the recent past and are tr ying to adjust to their new size. 
Aside from a government contractor who is too uncer tain about the future of fiscal policy to offer 
any clear forecast, contacts expect growth to either pick up or remain strong for the rest of the year. Aside from the government contractor, contacts were minima lly concerned about fiscal issues, the European 
debt crisis, and the state of the macro economy. 
Commercial Real Estate 
Commercial real estate markets in the First Distri ct are, for the most part, maintaining a solid 
footing. In Boston, rents on prime retail properti es continue to climb and office rents are described as 
steady or rising, depending on location. Office leasi ng volume is holding steady in Hartford, although 
deals consist largely of short-term lease extensions  with no expansion of space needs. Also in the 
 
I - 3 
Hartford area, investment sales demand remains strong for multifamily  structures, while well-leased 
office buildings garner growing investor interest. In Providence, office leas ing negotiations proceeded 
slowly as some tenants pushed back against landlor ds’ rising rent demands, and some office sales fell 
through or stalled in response to June’s spike in long- term Treasury rates. Also in response to the latter 
development, a regional banking c ontact reports that borrowing rates were raised on some commercial 
mortgages under negotiation and, moving forward, 10-y ear fixed-rate loans are likely to become more 
scarce. However, a Boston contact reports that bo rrowing rates and capitalization rates on commercial 
properties held largely steady in recent weeks.  
The outlook among First District contacts is for slow improvement in fundamentals for the rest of 
2013, but some downside risks were noted. For exam ple, a gun manufacturer in Connecticut announced 
plans to relocate to South Carolina in response to th e state’s passage of stricter gun-control laws, taking 
jobs out of the state and vacating a significant amount of commercial space. Other gun manufacturers in the state are reportedly likely to follow suit in  the coming months. A seasonal slowdown in leasing 
volume is expected in Providence for the summer mont hs, and a few contacts across the District mention 
interest-rate movements as a considerable source of uncertainty for investment sales moving forward.   
Residential Real Estate 
Single-family home and condominium sales rose throughout the First District in May. Contacts in 
the region report strong demand for housing, particular ly in urban areas of New England. According to 
contacts, slight increases in interest rates will likely spur more buyer activity in the short term as 
households try to lock in historica lly low interest rates. In Massachusetts, particularly in the Greater 
Boston area, inventory levels remain low, placing upward pressure on prices. Contacts in the Greater 
Boston area caution that inventory remains the most significant constraint on sales growth. In other parts 
of the First District, smaller cities report depleting inventory levels in urban centers, though realtors in 
these areas feel that a sufficient number of homes are av ailable to satisfy prospec tive buyers. In contrast 
to much of the region, Rhode Island maintains a high le vel of inventory, but that market appears to be 
recovering as sales activity and prices continue to increase.  
Contacts expect sales activity and the median sale pr ice to continue their upward trend. Inventory 
levels will likely remain an issue in urban areas due  to a lack of new construction there. Contacts 
anticipate that homeowners may be more inclined to  list their home for sale as house values continue to 
appreciate. Overall, contacts feel the market remains poised for healthy growth in the coming months.  
 
 II-1 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
Economic activity in the Second District has continued to expand moderately since the last 
report.  Manufacturers indicate that input price pressures have abated further, whereas service sector 
contacts report that they remain fairly widespread; pr ices of finished goods and services are stable to 
up slightly.  Labor market conditions continue to improve gradually, and businesses have become more willing to negotiate on salary.    Retailers report that sales were on the soft side in May and especially in June, whereas new automobile sales ar e reported to be steady.  Tourism activity remains 
steady at a strong level.  Commercial and residential real estate markets have continued to firm 
throughout the region.  Finally, bankers report mixed but generally steady loan demand, no change in 
credit standards, continued narrowing in loan spreads, and further declines in delinquency rates across all loan categories. 
Consumer Spending  
Retailers report that sales softened in May and especially in June.  One major retail chain 
reports that same-store sales were little changed from a year earlier, running modestly below plan in 
May and noticeably below plan in June.  Another chain indicates that sales were down noticeably 
from 2012 levels in both months.  In general, New York City stores performed a bit better than those elsewhere in the District—likely buoyed by tourism.   Major malls in upstate New York indicate that 
sales were steady to lower than a year earlier.  Most of the retail contacts attribute at least part of the 
recent softness in sales to unseasonably cold and wet weather.  Inventories are generally reported to 
be at desired levels or a little on the high side.  Prices are characterized as steady, and no unusual 
discounting is reported.   
Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales were steady at 
favorable levels in May and June, and continued to run moderately ahead of comparable 2012 levels.  
Sales of used automobiles are characterized as soft—in large part because of attractive deals on new 
autos.  Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases remain in good shape.  
 
 II-2 
Tourism activity has been mixed but generally fairly robust since the last report.  Manhattan 
hotels report continued strong business, with total revenues up 7 percent from a year ago: occupancy rates exceeded 90 percent and were roughly on par with  a year ago, room rates were up 3-4 percent, 
and there are about 3 percent more hotel rooms than a year ago.  On the other hand, attendance at 
Broadway theaters has continued to be weak, reflecting considerably fewer shows running than in the spring of 2012.  Finally, consumer confidence in the region has improved since the last report: The Conference Board’s June survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows 
confidence rising for the third straight month, appro aching its five-year high set last October; Siena 
College’s survey of New York State residents shows consumer sentiment rising to its highest level 
this year in June, led by upstate New York.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Residential real estate markets in the District have strengthened further since the last report.  
Sales prices for Manhattan apartments (co-ops and condos) were up moderately from a year earlier, 
while sales volume was up nearly 20 percent, further sharply reducing the inventory of units on the 
market.  Rents on Manhattan apartments continue to rise and are running roughly 5 percent ahead of comparable 2012 levels, however, rents have slipped modestly in Brooklyn.  New Jersey’s housing market has shown more modest signs of improvement : prices are rising slowly, reportedly restrained 
by an ongoing backlog of distressed properties on the market.  However, new construction activity—
particularly of rental apartment buildings—is running substantially ahead of a year ago.  Finally, 
housing market conditions remain particularly strong in western New York State: very tight inventory levels have pushed prices up, and multiple offers and bidding wars have become commonplace, despite continued tight lending standards.   
Commercial real estate markets throughout the New York City metropolitan region also 
showed further improvement in the second quarter.  Long Island’s office vacancy rate slipped below 
8 percent for the first time in a number of years, while rates in northern New Jersey, Westchester and 
 
 II-3 
Fairfield counties edged down but remain on the high side.  Office rents are little changed from mid-
2012 in these areas.  Manhattan’s office vacancy rate ticked up but remains low as of mid-year, while asking rents are up roughly 5 percent over the past year.  Industrial markets have also tightened, 
particularly in Long Island, where vacancy rates have declined steadily and asking rents are up nearly 
8 percent over the past year.   
Other Business Activity 
The labor market continues to improve at a gradual pace.  Two major employment agencies 
describe market fundamentals as favorable but note that the market is difficult to gauge at this 
typically slow time of year. One contact notes increasing difficulty in finding candidates with 
specific skill sets—especially for technology work ers—and also finds companies becoming less 
reluctant to negotiate on salaries.  This is described as the best year for college graduates since 2008. 
More generally, manufacturing contacts report a modest increase in staffing levels and some 
pickup in business activity since the last report but do not expect to hire additional workers through 
the second half of 2013.  Contacts in other sectors also report some pickup in both employment and 
business activity and do plan to ramp up hiring, as well as capital spending, in the months ahead.  Input price pressures have abated further in the manufacturing sector but remain fairly widespread among service-sector businesses. Both manufacturers and service-sector contacts report that selling prices are relatively stable.  
Financial Developments  
Bankers report increased demand for commercial mortgages but decreased demand for 
residential mortgages. For other loan categories, as well as for refinancing, contacts report no change in demand.  Respondents also note that credit standards remain unchanged across all loan categories. Bankers indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories—
particularly in commercial mortgages. Finally, bankers report decreased delinquency rates for all 
loan categories, but especially for commercial & industrial loans.   
III - 1 
 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
Aggregate business activity in the Third Distri ct maintained an overa ll moderate pace of 
growth during this current Beige Book period. In particular, auto sales accelerated to a strong 
rate of growth, lending firmed up to a modest ra te of growth, and manuf acturing activity appears 
to have grown slightly after de clining slightly last period. Th e growth rate of residential 
construction, existing home sales, and general services continued at a moderate pace. 
Commercial real estate leasing co ntinued to expand at modest rate s, while commercial real estate 
construction continued to expand only slightly. General retail sales, staffing services, and 
tourism appear to have resumed a modest rate of growth this period af ter a small surge last 
period. Manufacturing has resumed at  a slight rate of gr owth after declining slightly last period. 
Loan volumes at Third District ba nks grew at a modest pace across most categories, a little faster 
than last period. Credit quality continued to impr ove. Little change was reported for general price 
levels as well as for wages and home prices. Co ntacts reported slight incr eases overall – similar 
to the last Beige Book period.  
An overall outlook for moderate growth ha s continued since the last Beige Book. 
Contacts expressed greater confidence in the consumer  and in the sustainabil ity of current trends. 
Firms remain cautious about hiring and about ca rrying out their long-ter m capital expenditure 
plans. However, firms are more comfortable i nvesting when necessary to replace or upgrade 
aging equipment and to meet growing demand.  
 
Manufacturing.   Since the last Beige Book, Third Di strict manufacturers have reported 
that orders and shipments ar e rising again. The makers of paper products, rubber products, 
fabricated metals, industrial machinery, and instru ments have reported gains since the last Beige 
Book. Firms supplying the home-building sector c ontinued to report strong orders and ongoing 
hiring to keep pace. The makers of food produc ts and electronic equipment reported lower 
activity (some was seasonal). Reports were mixed for makers of primary metals. Other contacts 
attributed growing demand to auto-related business and foreig n demand. A negative impact from 
sequestration was cited by some firms, while othe rs said they avoided the worst effects. Firms 
continued to report restraint in curr ent hiring but a desire to hire mo re workers in the near future.  
Across nearly all sectors, Third District ma nufacturers remained op timistic that business 
conditions will improve over the next six months. Business plans for the remainder of the year 
have been lowered slightly for some firms. However, firms appear more confident of ongoing, 
steady growth and more willing to invest in capac ity and hire new workers as needed to keep 
pace with demand. Overall, firms have significantly increased their expectat ions of future hiring 
and their plans for capital spe nding since the last Beige Book.  
III - 2 
 
 
Retail.   Third District retailers  have reported modest growth – dampened by rainy 
weather – since the last Beige Book. Contacts de scribed June and July as seasonally slower 
months, as local residents head off for summer va cations. However, excessive rain in June kept 
still more people away from stores, while some s howed up just to “hang out” at the mall. Mall 
operators reported that the gene ral retail climate has improved, citing stronger demand for retail 
space and rising occupancy rates.  
Auto dealers reported that June sales acceler ated to a strong rate of growth. Sales, 
described as “on fire” for the first couple of w eeks of June, may have produced “the best [June 
sales] in six years.” Dealers attr ibuted a better sales climate, in part, to no supply problems, no 
credit problems, and falling unemployment rates. D ealers are bullish for the next couple of years 
but continue to hire cautiously.  
 
Finance.   Overall, Third District financial firms reported modest increases in total loan 
volume – a slight improvement since the prev ious Beige Book. Banking contacts cited stronger 
demand for all major loan categories, including C&I loans, real estate loan s, and consumer loans, 
including credit cards. Consumer lending and home equity loans remained slow, as refinancings 
remained a preferred option for homeowners. Howeve r, contacts reported a decline in refinance 
applications in the pipeline after rates rose. Meanwhile, increasing sales of new and existing 
homes are raising demand for home mortgages.  Banking contacts contin ued to report strong 
competition for loans and concerns about comp etitors lowering their lending standards. 
However, most banks reported “improvement in  all aspects of business,” including “more 
upgrades of credits” within their own portfo lios. Contacts expressed continued optimism for 
future growth and sensed gr eater customer confidence.  
 
Real Estate and Construction.   Homebuilders throughout most of the Third District 
continued to report moderate grow th. Though traffic and sales were soft in a few markets, most 
builders are meeting their plan for the year wi th increases as high as 40 percent. Builders 
reported no systemic impediments to  sales, such as credit availability and mortgage issues. Some 
builders still face labor shortages for carpentry and framing work, and several contacts have 
reported a shortage of finished land. Moderate growth of existing home sales continued through 
June, according to residential brokers. Sales clos ed and sales pending grew by double digits (year 
over year) in several la rger metropolitan areas in the Thir d District.  The estimated months’ 
supply of the existing inventory of homes has fa llen to near six months in many areas. Brokers 
say the anticipated shadow inventor y of homes has not yet emerged.  
Nonresidential real estate cont acts continued to report little ch ange in the modest pace of 
overall leasing activity and sli ght growth of construction. Alth ough the overall climate for new 
III - 3 
 
construction “is getting incremen tally better,” contact s reported a renewed strong push for 
industrial structures along the I-81 and I-76 corridors throughout eastern Pennsylvania and into 
central New Jersey. Construction activity also remains greater for multifamily residential units, 
higher education facilities, and public utility infra structure. Contacts continued to report heavy 
competition and thin margins on projects. Overall, contacts remained optimistic for a 
continuation of slow, steady growth.  
 
Services.   Third District service-sector firms continued to report a moderate pace of 
growth overall. Despite earlier strong bookings, shore destinations  in Delaware and New Jersey 
reported somewhat lower activity (traffic counts,  bookings, and boardwalk sa les) and cited rainy 
weather through much of June as one source of the problem. A multimillion dollar advertising 
campaign has helped boost Jersey Shore activit y, but tourism in the areas hardest hit by 
Hurricane Sandy is still down some what more than is necessitated by the actual damage. Casino 
revenues from Atlantic City and the state of Delaware remain on a downward trend, and reports 
from Pennsylvania casinos indicate that revenue from slot machines  appears to be turning in the 
same direction.  
In other sectors, firms cite steady progress – rising consumer confidence, limited cost 
pressures, and growing sales. A staffing firm re ported a slight sag in billable hours for June 
following strong growth through May year to date. Other service-sector firms reported 
“incrementally better” growth, tight margins, and cautious hiring. Contacts offer mixed reports 
on their ability to attract qualified workers whil e generally citing no wage  pressures. Overall, 
service-sector firms remain opt imistic about future growth.  
 
Prices and Wages.   Overall, price levels continued to  increase slightly, similar to the 
previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported m odest increases for prices paid and prices 
received. Auto dealers reported no changes in pricing. Homebuild ers continued to face tight 
margins and higher prices for some skilled labor. Mo st real estate contacts  reported stable, if not 
rising, prices for lower priced homes, and contac ts in some markets noted stable prices for 
higher-priced homes. Contacts from retail, rest aurants, and some serv ices indicated that 
commodity prices have not been a big issue this  year as in the recent past. Wage pressures 
remain constrained, according to most contacts other than homebuilders.  
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
The economy in the Fourth District expande d at a moderate pace during the past six 
weeks.  Manufacturing orders and production were  steady or higher.  The momentum seen in 
residential construction since th e beginning of the year has slow ed, but activity remains above 
year-ago levels.  Nonresidential builders experienced a rise in  the number of inquiries and 
backlogs.  Retail sales were lackluster dur ing May, while new motor vehicle sales posted 
moderate gains on a year-over-year basis.  C onventional and unconventiona l natural gas and oil 
production was stable, and drilling ha s declined since the start of th e year.  Output at coal mines 
trended lower.  Freight transport volume exceed ed projections.  Demand for credit increased 
slightly.  
Hiring picked up in manufacturing and re sidential construction.  Staffing firm 
representatives reported that the number of job openings an d placements was fairly steady, with 
vacancies found primarily in healthcare and manuf acturing.  Wage pressures remain contained.  
Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from increase s in construction materials.   
Manufacturing.  Reports from  District factories indica ted that new orders and 
production were largely stable or  increased during the past six weeks.  Companies seeing the 
strongest activity were suppliers  to the residential construction  and transportation industries.  
Compared to a year ago, production levels we re mixed.  Steel producer s and service centers 
reported that shipping volumes were little ch anged.  Our contacts expressed concern about 
downward pressure on domestic steel prices, whic h they attributed to rising imports.  Motor 
vehicle production at District plants held steady during May on a month-over-month basis.  
Compared to a year ago, auto production rose slightly.  Many of our contacts believe that 
demand will soften during the next  couple of months, although part  of the expected decline was 
attributed to seasonal factors.   In response, there was so me reduction in finished goods 
inventories.      
Manufacturers commented that capacity utilizat ion rates have fallen slightly but remain 
within their normal ranges.  Capital expenditures are either on plan or slightly ahead for the 
fiscal year.  Several companies anticipate increasi ng capital budgets in the upcoming fiscal year 
to better position themselves for expected grow th opportunities.  Raw ma terial and finished 
goods prices were generally flat or trended lowe r.  Steel producers who attempted to raise their 
prices met with limited success.  Factories expa nded payrolls at a modest pace, although finding 
qualified production and salaried pers onnel was difficult.  Wage pressu res are contained.        
Real Estate.  Sales of new single-family homes we re down slightly in June when 
compared to earlier in the spring, although they  remain above year-ago levels.  Construction 
starts also fell slightly.  One contractor commented that the recent decline in sales is not 
abnormal for this time of year.  Traffic and inquir ies were described as much better relative to 
IV - 2  
last year.  New home contracts we re found mostly in the mid- to higher-price-point  categories.  
Demand for multifamily housing was strong.  Builders  were confident that the turnaround in the 
housing market will persist in the upcoming mont hs.  Nonetheless, they cited difficulty in 
obtaining financing and a lack of bui ldable lots as barriers to more  robust growth.  List prices of 
new homes increased by as much as 5 percent in cer tain markets this year due primarily to rising 
costs for land, building materials,  and to a lesser exte nt, labor.  Home builders have cut back on 
discounting.  Sale prices of ex isting single-family homes continue d to rise across the District on 
a year-over-year basis, but the rate of increase is somewhat lower than the national average.  
Nonresidential builders have seen a small improvement in business conditions since our 
last report.  Inquiries have picked up and backlo gs are slowly rising.  Th e strongest activity was 
on the commercial side, especia lly in distribution and warehous ing.  Bank financing is difficult 
to obtain, so many smaller projects are being funded  with cash.  Our contact s are hopeful that the 
improvement in business conditions they have rece ntly experienced will continue at the same 
pace or accelerate during th e remainder of this year.    
We heard many comments about large price in creases for building materials, especially 
lumber, drywall, and concrete, though the rate of increase has slowed during the past month.  
Home builders reported moderate hiring, especi ally for office personnel, while nonresidential 
builders limited their hiring to seasonal help.  Wa ge pressures are containe d.  General contractors 
are concerned about the availabi lity of qualified subcontractors if demand in the construction 
sector begins growing at a robust pace.     
Consumer Spending.  Retailers described May sales as lackluster and noted that they 
fell below plan.  However, sales were fairly even  with the same month a year ago.  Some of our 
contacts cited poor weather c onditions for holding down consumer spending.  Looking ahead, 
third-quarter sales are expected to be modestly higher when co mpared to those in the second 
quarter.  A few contacts reported th at their inventories were sligh tly higher than desired.  Vendor 
and shelf prices held steady.  Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year.  Monies are 
allocated primarily for store improvements and e xpansions.  No hiring is anticipated, except for 
staffing new stores.    
  Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles  showed a moderate increase during May 
compared to the same time period a year ago.  B uyers preferred smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles; 
however, purchases of large pickup trucks trended higher, especially in th e eastern half of the 
District.  New vehicle inventories are rising, but a majority of dealer s said that they are satisfied 
with their inventory positions.  Our contacts are fairly optimistic  about sales prospects for the 
remainder of the year.  Dealer s pointed to pent-up consumer demand and the option to lease 
vehicles as reasons for their optimism.  Used-veh icle purchases rose during the past six weeks.  
Inventory is building as lease roll overs start to come in.  Prices for quality used cars remain high.  
IV - 3  
Dealer investment in facility upgrades and expansi ons has increased as they grow more confident 
about the sustainability of highe r sales volume.  Dealers are looki ng to hire a small number of 
personnel, though some have postponed hiring decisi ons as they gauge the effectiveness of new 
technology that is being inte grated into their selling model.         
Banking.  Demand for commercial real estate an d multi family construction loans has 
picked up since our last report, while requests for other business loan categories were little 
changed.  Almost all bankers reported aggressi ve credit-pricing pressure.  Consumer credit 
demand rose slightly, especially for auto loans and home equity products.  Residential mortgage 
activity remains relatively strong.  Se veral bankers attributed  a decline in refinancing to a rise in 
interest rates.  New purchase mortgages are tren ding higher.  No changes were made to loan-
application standards.  Aggregate core deposits grew at a steady pace, with a movement from 
CDs to demand deposits still taking place.  There were a few reports about workforce reductions 
and shifting personnel as a means of cutting costs.      
Energy.  District coal production remains below year-ago levels, although the downward 
trend seen during the first five months of 2013 was showing signs of leveling off.  Producers 
reported that demand from domestic utility comp anies is up slightly, while offshore demand is 
slowing (Asia) or stagnant (E urope).  Spot prices for steam -coal rose slightly, whereas 
metallurgical coal prices were flat.  The numbe r of drilling rigs across the District has fallen 
significantly since the begi nning of the year; however, the state of Ohio continued to issue shale 
gas drilling permits at a robust pace.  Output from conventiona l and unconventional gas wells 
was stable during the past couple of months, wh ile oil production picked up slightly.  Well-head 
prices were little changed.  Cap ital expenditures remain at targeted levels.  On balance, little 
change was seen in production equipment and mate rial prices.  Energy payrolls and labor costs 
were flat.      
Freight Transportation.  Our contacts reported that shipping volume remains higher 
than expected, but the rate of growth has slowed  since our last report.  Freight executives are 
positive, but cautious about growth prospects for the near term.  Of particular concern is how the new hours of service regulations (HOS) that went  into effect on July 1 will play out.  Our 
contacts believe that the primary impact of HOS  will be on the availabil ity of drivers and the 
ability of shipping companies to effectively sc hedule those drivers.  Potential reductions in 
capacity will tend to drive up shipping costs.  Pr ices for equipment and maintenance items were 
stable.  Capital spending is on plan  for the fiscal year.  Monies are used mainly for tractor/trailer 
replacement and capacity expansion.  The industry is still experiencing a s hortage of drivers and 
skilled mechanics.  The former may wors en under the new HOS regulations.     
 V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview.  District economic activity strengthened m oderately in recent weeks. Manufacturing 
shipments and new orders increased. Consumer spendi ng firmed somewhat and auto sales remained solid. 
Services providers also reported steady to stronger de mand. Additionally, touris t bookings were up year 
over year. In banking, demand rose for new residentia l mortgage lending. Commercial and industrial 
lending was flat to slightly higher. Residential real estate sales and construction increased, with speculative building returning to some areas. Comme rcial construction was little changed and leasing was 
steady overall, with occasional reports of rising rental  rates. The effect of continued heavy rainfall on 
agriculture was mixed, slowing planting or damagi ng some crops while bolstering others. Natural gas 
production increased since our last report, particularly  shale gas, and coal production was steady but well 
below year-ago levels. In labor markets, temp hiring picked up, although many firms were reluctant to 
hire permanent workers. Average wage growth was flat to faster, and price changes were mixed. 
Manufacturing . Manufacturers expressed cautious optimism in the weeks since our last report, 
as activity in that sector strengthened modestly. Shipments and new orders rose, and the average 
workweek increased. Despite the improved conditions , producers preferred to use cash to update 
technology and existing infrastructure, rather th an undertake expansion. A plastics manufacturer 
commented that his company was purchasing new machin ery in response to increased work levels, and he 
saw industrial confidence as being up, but still cau tious. A lumber company executive said he will not 
hire new full-time employees until next year, but that, so far, this has been his best year since 2007. 
Moreover, according to a representative of several manuf acturers, some firms have gone to two shifts and 
further growth is expected for the second half of th is year as backlogs build . Even so, he described 
confidence as “fragile, and nobody takes it for grante d.” Federal spending reductions, tax changes, and 
slower overseas demand affected some manufacturers. A manufacturer of packaging materials 
commented, “There is a light at the end of the tunnel, but it only flickers at times.” Price growth increased 
for raw materials and finished goods, according to our latest survey of manufacturers. 
Ports. Port volumes were little changed overall in recent weeks. Lumber imports picked up, 
while imports of auto parts and auto assembly inputs softened slightly from very high volumes. Imports 
and exports of autos remained strong. Exports of co ntainerized agricultural products rose, particularly 
logs and animal feed inputs, while exports of wheat sprouts declined. Energy-related exports and 
agricultural equipment were solid, with agricultural equipment peaking in late spring as usual, albeit 
somewhat below year-ago record levels. Overall, co al exports were unchanged.  Port administrators 
expected seasonal increases in the weeks ahead for back-to-school and holiday imports.  
Retail. Retail sales strengthened slightly in recent w eeks, helped by big-ticket sales. A wholesaler 
of heavy construction equipment commented th at his firm had seen significant improvement. 
 V-2  
Additionally, a contact at a large auto and light tr uck dealership remarked that sales volume was strong 
and the market was extremely competitive. He noted th at new vehicle sales were being driven by full-size 
pickups that are typically purchased by homebuilder s and construction-related services businesses. Used 
car sales were exceptionally strong and some dealers ha d shortages of used vehicles. A report from a large 
department store chain said that cold and damp weather, along with the payroll tax change, had 
constrained sales. Retail price growth slowed since our last report.  
Services.  Non-retail services firms reported steady to stronger activity. Telecommunications 
firms, accountants, and a firm specializing in softwa re design for clinical use reported rising revenues. 
Hospital consolidation remained “intense,” according to a contact in North Carolina. Non-retail prices 
rose more slowly in this reporting period.  
Tourism picked up. Bookings rose in the Tidewa ter, Virginia region.  Additionally, a hotel 
manager in western North Carolina noted that his book ings have risen compared to a year ago and that 
expectations were for continued year-over-year growth  for the remainder of this year. A contact on the 
outer banks of North Carolina reported general optimis m and added that cutbacks in government funding 
for tourist sites have led to increased fund-raising ev ents, such as concerts. Rates were little changed.  
Finance. Banking activity increased slightly since our last assessment. Demand for residential 
mortgages was up in most markets and bankers across th e Fifth District commented that there had been a 
noticeable shift toward new purchases and away from re financing. A Virginia banker proclaimed that 
“refinancing had died,” although a lender in Sout h Carolina said that refinancing still made up the 
majority of his residential mortgage business. Howe ver, some customers no longer qualified for loan 
refinancing due to higher rates. Similarly, “the phone rang more often” for a Virginia banker while a 
lender in Maryland reported that people were waiting to see what rates would do. Demand for residential 
construction loans rose in South Carolina. Commercial and industrial loan demand was flat to slightly 
higher.  There were several loans in the pipeline at a West Virginia bank, most of which were for new 
structures (i.e., office buildings, car showrooms, and a retirement community). However, higher interest 
rates caused some deals to be reevaluated and put on hold or pulled. Contacts also stated that clients were 
surprised at the higher rates and that businesses were trying to figure out how best to budget for them. 
Real Estate . Residential real estate sales expanded. Two Washington, D.C. area agents reported 
that it was now routine to see multiple offers for a home, as well as escalator clauses in those contracts. 
Another contact in the region said that home repair  and specialized construction were benefitting from 
strength in the housing market. Due in part to its proximity to D.C. and Baltimore, home sales in the 
eastern panhandle of West Virginia finally saw some improvement. In addition, home sales in western North Carolina were up, causing inventories to erode  and speculative building to resume. Inventories 
were also low in the Charlotte region where home sales and prices had both increased. Lastly, a source on 
the eastern shore of Maryland stated that appraisals we re below the sales price of homes in some areas. 
 V-3  
Commercial real estate and construction markets were little changed overall in recent weeks. 
Demand for commercial real estate in Washington. D.C. continued to  be scarce as people were “waiting 
on the sidelines” to see what would happen with th e economy and government spending. In addition, one 
large business in the D.C. area sold its buildings and turned to renti ng space while another shifted out of 
large leased spaces and consolidated  into buildings owned by the firm. There were conflicting reports 
from our North Carolina contacts about multi-fam ily housing: one reported there was now some 
overbuilding while another said there was still a lot of  strength in this type of housing. This latter 
sentiment was echoed by a report from the Tidewater area of Virginia indicating that multi-family was 
doing well and stalled projects were coming back on line. Contacts in other parts of the state reported that 
lot inventory was low or “almost nil.”  Retail, office, and industrial leasi ng activity was steady in Virginia 
and West Virginia while rental rates edged up in Charlotte and Richmond.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources. Recent reports on agricultural conditions were mixed. 
While a South Carolina farm loan banker reported that the wet weather earlier in the year “started the crop 
season off in a positive light,” other reports from Sout h Carolina and Virginia indicated that the rains 
delayed planting and even resulted in one farmer planting soybeans and cotton instead of corn. In 
addition, a South Carolina contact noted that heavy rains had damaged the regional wheat crop to the 
extent that sprouts were unacceptable for export. A North Carolina source also noted a recent shift to 
cotton over corn, due to declining corn prices. Neve rtheless, another source remarked that agricultural 
lending was “booming” and demand for w ood products continued to rise.  
Natural gas production—particularly shale g as—continued to increase in West Virginia. 
Moreover, one shale plant was less than fully staffed because of a worker shortage. Although rig counts 
were down nationwide, West Virginia was one of five states that recently saw an increase in rig counts. 
Coal production remained steady in recent weeks though we ll below a year ago. Coal lay-offs in southern 
West Virginia were expected to come later this year.  
Labor Markets.  Conditions in the District labor market were somewhat better since our last 
report. Employment rose in several industries, in cluding home repair and c onstruction, hotels, and 
medical software. In addition, a contact from a temp  agency in North Carolina reported there was high 
demand for technology professionals, particularly for healthcare-related IT, as well as accounting, 
finance, and real estate. He added that contingent  labor was in much greater demand than full-time 
employees due to uncertainty about the economy; another source said that small businesses were going 
out of their way to avoid the long-term commitment of permanent hiring. In contrast, a web consulting 
firm in Virginia and a social assistance organization in North Carolina planned to add employees. Also, a 
staffing agency in South Carolina reported weak  demand for labor, and two electrical equipment 
manufacturers laid off employees. According to our latest surveys, wage growth picked up in the 
manufacturing sector, remained robust at non-retail establishments, and flattened at retail businesses. 
VI-1 
 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary. Reports from Sixth District  business contacts indicated that economic activity 
expanded at a modest pace  in June and early Jul y. The outlook for the rest of the year remains 
optimistic for most firms.  
Retailers noted mixed sales resu lts and vehicle sales grew at a robust pace. The hospitality 
sector continued to experience strong demand. Most  brokers and homebuilders reported increases in 
sales and prices, and declining home inventories.  Commercial contractor s cited improvement in 
overall demand and a slight increase in construc tion. Manufacturing firms i ndicated that activity 
grew, albeit at a slower rate th an in our previous report.  Loan demand remained stable for 
residential real estate, while loans for autos ou tside of the dealership remained constrained by 
competitive offers from auto manufacturers.  Em ployment growth for the District was modest. 
Firms remarked that stable i nput prices have helped impr ove profit margins slightly.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism. Reports from District retail ers were mixed. While most 
merchants experienced modest gr owth, growth was lower than expected in some cases. Some 
attributed lackluster sales to weather conditions.  Auto dealers continued to experience strong 
growth. 
Travel and tourism activity continued to exceed expectations. Contacts throughout the 
District reported that key indicators of demand (visitation, ho tel occupancy, average daily rate, and 
revenue per available room) and prof itability were positive and stead ily rising. In spite of increases 
in accommodation rates, demand remained strong w ith advanced bookings for the next three to six 
months increasing to levels above those from  a year ago.  With strong convention and group 
meeting activity planned for the remainder of 2013 and positive lead vol ume for 2014, District 
hospitality contacts anticipa te the positive momentum of 2013 to continue in 2014.  
Real Estate and Construction. District brokers continued to report that existing home sales 
remained ahead of last year's level were mostly ah ead of expectations. Howeve r, brokers still report 
that inventories remain at low leve ls, and thereby restraining sales.  Shortages were also said to be 
putting upward pressure on home pri ces. Existing home prices conti nued to rise on a year-over-year 
basis. The outlook for sales growth remained positiv e, with the majority of brokers anticipating 
sales gains over the next several months.  
District homebuilders reported that new home sales and construction were ahead of year 
earlier levels.  Recent activity wa s mostly in line with expectati ons and buyer traffic remained 
strong.  However, builders noted that access to financ ing and a shortage of developed lots continued 
to constrain construction activity. Most contacts reported that new ho me inventories were below the 
VI-2 
 
year earlier level and prices rose modestl y. The outlook for construction and new home sales 
remained positive, but the outlook for growth moderate d somewhat compared with our last report.    
District commercial real estate contacts in dicated that demand continued to improve from 
earlier in the year.  Construction act ivity was described as flat to slightly up from earlier this year 
and was dominated by build-to-suit projects an d renovations of existing space.  While a wider 
variety of projects seems to be in the works compared with a year ago, activity was still 
concentrated in medical office space, certain types of retail, and apartments. Commercial brokers indicated that demand for space improved at a modest pace. Brokers reported that most markets still 
favored tenants; however, rate increases continue d to be noted in select submarkets. The outlook 
among District commercial real estate contacts remained positiv e with further improvements 
expected this year.   
Manufacturing and Transportation. Regional manufacturers repo rted expanding activity; 
however, the rate of growth slowed  as a result of a decrease in ne w orders, production, and finished 
inventory. Contacts reported a slight decline in  commodities prices and some expressed that 
inventories may build in some sectors as manufac turers take advantage of favorable prices. Less 
than half of purchasing managers expect production to be higher in  the next three to six months, 
slightly lower than ou r previous report.  
District port contacts  cited notable year-over-year growth  in container trade, autos and 
machinery, and bulk cargoes, including a significant  increase in the export ing of natural gas. 
Trucking companies cited a rise in shipments of building constr uction materials, as well as 
chemicals; however, capacity remained constrained due to driver shortages.  Total year-to-date 
railroad volumes were reported to be flat through June, but significant activity was noted for 
petroleum-related products and other chemi cals, forest, lumber and wood products, and 
metallurgical coal.  
Banking and Finance. Some institutions reported a pickup in mortgage loan demand 
attributed to improved housing markets and increasing in terest rates.  They al so indicated that while 
mortgage refinancing had slowed, new purch ase loan demand had increased. Demand for 
automobile loans declined as banks and credit unions noted they could not compete with zero 
percent deals from auto manufacturers. 
Some bankers indicated vigorous competition for loans has led them to change loan features, 
such as relaxing guarantee requirements or cove ring a substantial chunk of  closing costs. Local 
community bank contacts had eased up on covenants and guarantees and were willing to take more 
risks, particularly when a loan fit a category in which they were interested.  
VI-3 
 
Some businesses were courted with offers to refinance de bt with eased covenants and 
restrictions, while others indica ted financing was still a major impediment to new construction 
projects and securing fund ing remained difficult.  
Employment and Prices. Since the last report, District pa yrolls grew at a modest pace. 
Tennessee experienced moderate pa yroll gains in retail, trade a nd transportation, professional and 
business services, and manufacturing. Alabama conti nued to see hiring in hosp itality services, most 
notably in accommodation and food services. Louisiana added jobs in construction, and education 
and healthcare.  All District states saw payroll co ntractions in their govern ment sectors, with the 
exception of Mississippi, which showed a m ild gain at the stat e government level. 
In general, most input costs remained relativ ely stable, helping to support slightly stronger 
profit margins in the face of improving, but sti ll below pre-recession sale s levels. Some notable 
exceptions were costs related to co nstruction materials such as lumb er, concrete, and drywall, which 
increased for a number of contacts. The Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation Expectations survey 
showed year-ahead unit cost expe ctations ticking down from 2 to 1.8 percent in June, marking the 
lowest reading since January.  
Natural Resources and Agriculture. Regional oil and gas activity remained robust. 
Significant capital investment con tinued in liquefied natural gas (L NG) facilities along the Gulf 
Coast.  Expansion projects on ex isting refineries were noted as moving along, marking the first time 
such investments have been made in twenty year s. There were some comments that high costs to 
transport oil and gas by rail, barge, and truck were  exerting upward pressure on prices for refined 
products. Contacts also indicated th at capacity for oil and natural gas products remained abundant 
and that domestic demand for energy produc ts was beginning to rise for the season. 
Since our last report, soil th roughout much of the District im proved to more favorable, drier 
conditions.  Pasture conditions improved as well.   Monthly prices paid to farmers were up for 
cotton, soybeans, corn for grain, rice, citrus, hogs , and broilers.  During this same period, beef 
prices were down slightly, but still modera tely higher than this time last year.   
 
 
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  Economic activity in the Seventh District  expanded at a moderate pace in June, 
and contacts remained cautiously optimistic about growth prospects in the second half of the year. 
Growth in consumer and business spending pick ed up. Manufacturing production increased as did 
construction, led by continued improvement in the residential sector. Cred it conditions tightened 
moderately. Cost pressures were again mild, and wage pressures remained moderate. Crop 
conditions improved, with the crop ending the pe riod in better shape than a year ago. 
Consumer spending . Growth in consumer spending incr eased in June. Contacts attributed 
the pick-up in the pace of growth to recent gains in  consumer confidence, an increase in auto dealer 
incentives and other retail promotions, and the rebounding housing market. Auto sales increased at 
a faster rate than non-auto retail sales. Auto deal ers reported strong sales of both pick-up trucks and 
small passenger cars, as well as an  increase in activity in the leasing market. For non-auto retail 
sales, contacts noted that high-end retailers and discount stores both conti nued to fare better than 
middle market retailers.  
Business spending.  Growth in business spending also picked up in June. Spending on 
equipment and software increased slightly, as di d spending on structures. A few contacts reported 
an increase in merger and acquisitions activit y, but noted that deals were being delayed by 
uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook. Inventor y investment was also impacted by elevated 
uncertainty. Retail contacts reported that inve ntories remained tight, as many retailers were 
planning to wait until after the b ack-to-school season to re-assess the state of demand and before 
placing the bulk of their holiday orders. Manufacturers were also  limiting inventory investment, 
with a contact noting that stee l service centers were  liquidating inventories given weak demand. 
Labor market conditions continued to improve slowly. Demand for skilled workers remained relatively stronger, par ticularly for healthcare, informa tion technology, engineering, and other 
technical occupations. Manufacturi ng contacts, however, were gene rally more cautious in their 
hiring plans, with some layoffs reported in indus tries where activity has sl owed considerably in 
recent months. In addition, several retailers reported  that the Affordable Care Act would lead to 
more part-time and temporary versus full-time hiring. 
Construction/real estate . Construction and real estate activity continued to increase 
gradually in June. Demand for residential construction grew steadily, as multifamily construction remained strong and single-family construction c ontinued to improve. A ho mebuilder noted that 
 
 VII-2
while new single-family development remained li mited, improvement of vacant lots in existing 
developments was increasing. Activity in the residen tial real estate market c ontinued to increase as 
well, with home sales, prices, and rents rising. Nonr esidential construction grew at a modest pace, 
driven in large part by the ongoing expansion of the auto industry. However, a contact noted that 
planned upgrades to auto supplier facilities were nearly complete ; and that with auto production 
getting back to pre-recession leve ls, any additional capacity expansi on was likely to be incremental. 
Commercial real estate conditions continued to improve as rents ro se slowly and vacancies fell.  
Manufacturing . Manufacturing production increased in June. The auto industry continued 
to be a source of strength, with the traditional summer shut-down period scaled back this year to 
meet the increase in customer demand. Vehicle demand was strong across all sectors, and auto 
industry contacts reported growing confidence that activity will remain robust in the second half of 
the year. Steel production again grew at a mode rate pace, and specialty metal manufacturers 
reported a modest improvement in new orders an d order backlogs. In contrast, demand for heavy 
equipment remained soft, although contacts antici pated a slight improvement in the remaining 
months of the year. Mining activity  continued to weaken, and cont acts expressed concern over the 
effect environmental regulations would have on the coal mining industry moving forward. Demand 
for construction equipment picked up some as the housing market continued to improve.  
Banking/finance . Credit conditions tightened moderately over the reporting period. 
Volatility increased across a number of asset classes and corporate borrowing costs rose. Financial 
market participants noted lower activity in fixe d income markets, particularly the high-yield 
corporate debt market. Banking c ontacts cited less demand among thei r larger clients for leveraged 
financing, and continued uneven growth in the mi ddle market driven mostly by refinancing of 
existing debt. Credit standards remained roughly  unchanged, although contacts  reported additional 
downward pressure on pricing. In contrast, cons umer loan demand increased over the reporting 
period, particularly for auto lending. With the recent increase in mortgage rates, mortgage 
refinancing slowed, but contacts  again noted an increase in new mortgage originations.   
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures remained mild in J une. Commodity prices continued to trend 
lower, although some contacts noted increases in the prices paid for concrete, drywall, metals such 
as steel and copper, and ener gy goods and services. Retailers again reported mostly modest 
increases in wholesale prices; a nd, overall, pass-through to downst ream prices was limited. Wage 
pressures remained moderate, although many c ontacts again noted risi ng healthcare and other 
benefit costs. Some of these higher co sts were being passed on to employees. 
 
 VII-3
Agriculture .  Crop conditions improved over the cour se of the reporting period, with the 
crop ending the period in better shape than a year a go. District farmers managed to get their crops in 
the ground despite additional planting delays caused  by the unseasonably wet weather. Only a small 
percentage of acres will not gr ow a crop, where water pooled in lo w-lying areas and replanting was 
not possible. Fruit crops could pr oduce record yields this year, in  sharp contrast with the large 
losses seen a year ago. With stocks of corn and soyb eans expected to remain at  very low levels until 
the fall harvest, corn and soybean prices move d higher. The increase in feed costs negatively 
affected livestock operations, and contacts noted that  it would lead to careful  management of feed 
purchases until anticipated declines in crop prices are likely to materialize following a potentially 
record fall harvest. The first cutting of hay was mo stly complete and was much better than last year. 
Supported by rejuvenated pastures, milk output also increased. Milk prices were roughly unchanged 
during the reporting period, while hog prices surged, and cattle prices were lower. 
 
 VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
The economy of the Eighth District has expande d at a moderate pace since our previous 
report. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have been positive. Residential real estate market conditions have continued to impr ove, and commercial real estate 
markets have also improved. Total lending at a sa mple of small and midsized District banks 
increased from mid-March to mid-June. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Reports of manufacturing activity plans have  been positive since our previous report. 
Several manufacturing firms reported significant plans to add workers, expand operations, or 
open new facilities in the Eighth District, while  a smaller number of manufacturers reported 
plans to reduce their employee count. Firms in automobile, automobile parts, lumber, bakery, petroleum refining, and firearm manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand 
operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, firms that manuf acture boats, housewares, turbines, 
and medical equipment reported plans to  lay off workers in the District. 
Reports of plans in the District’s service sect or have also been positive since the previous 
report. Firms in television, prescription benefits management, electronics re tail, residential care, 
utility, consulting, and automobile  sales services reported new hiring and expansion plans in 
District states. In contrast, firms in transpor tation, financial, food whol esale, healthcare, and 
security services plan to lay-off employees. Repo rts from retail contacts were generally positive. 
There were more new retail store openings than  store closings. However, many retail contacts 
noted that year-to-date sales were below expect ations, and contacts were cautiously optimistic 
about sales for the remainder of 2013. Finally, sale s reports from auto dealers were generally 
 VIII-2 
positive, citing increased sales for new and used cars as well as plans to open new dealership 
locations. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of th e Eighth District on a year-
over-year basis. Compared with the same pe riod in 2012, May 2013 year-to-date home sales 
were up 17 percent in Louisvil le, 24 percent in Little Rock, 8 percent in Memphis, and 14 
percent in St. Louis. May 2013 year-to-date si ngle-family housing perm its increased in the 
majority of the District metro areas compared w ith the same period in 20 12. Permits increased 18 
percent in Louisville, 23 percen t in Memphis, and 18 percent in St. Louis. Permits decreased 3 
percent in Little Rock. 
Commercial and industrial real estate mark et conditions have co ntinued to improve 
moderately throughout most of th e District. A contact in Memphi s reported that commercial and 
industrial real estate ac tivity continued to strengthen. A co ntact in Louisville  noted a strong 
demand in industrial real estate. Contacts in St . Louis reported that downtown office leasing 
appeared to bottom out compared with last year . A contact in northwest Arkansas also reported 
that commercial real estate act ivity was moving in the right direction. Commercial and industrial 
construction activity continued to  improve throughout most of the District. A contact in south 
central Kentucky reported several commercial construction plans in Bowling Green, while a 
contact in central Arkans as noted a few retail cons truction projects. In contrast, contacts in 
Memphis and Louisville commented that industrial constructi on activity was low. 
Banking and Finance 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of sma ll and midsized District banks increased 1.8 
percent from mid-March to mid-June. Real es tate lending, which accounts for 73.4 percent of 
 VIII-3 
total loans, increased 0.9 percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.7 percent 
of total loans, increased 0.7 percent. Loans to  individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of total 
loans, increased 1.9 percent. All other loans, accounting for 6.2 perc ent of total loans, increased 
15.3 percent. During this period, total deposits  at these banks decr eased 0.8 percent. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
At the end of June, the condition of over 90 percent of the cotton, corn, soybeans, 
sorghum, and rice crops was rated as  fair or better in al l the District states. Furthermore, at least 
70 percent of total pastureland acr oss the District states was rate d in good or excellent condition. 
The winter wheat harvest was behind its 5-year  average and behind the progress made by the 
same time last year. Year-to-date coal production for the District states at the end of May was 
lower than the same period last year because of lackluster production in Illinois, Missouri, 
Tennessee, and Indiana. In cont rast, year-to-date coal produc tion in Arkansas was 55 percent 
higher than the same period last year.  
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy show ed signs of moderate growt h. Increased activity was noted 
in consumer spending, professional services , manufacturing and energy. Tourism-related 
activities slowed in May and June in some ar eas, but tourism businesses were optimistic for 
the summer season. Commercial construction and real estate grew moderately fast, while 
residential construction and real  estate grew at a robust pace . The mining sector was sluggish, 
and agriculture decreased. Labor markets contin ued to tighten slightly, and wage increases 
were moderate. Price increases we re subdued since th e last report. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending increased modestly. A Minn esota-based bar and re staurant chain noted 
that sales were up moderately during May and June compared with a year ago.  
A mall manager in North Dakota reported that  sales increased modestly while traffic 
decreased slightly during la te May and June; apparel sale s were particularly slow. 
Meanwhile, a Minnesota-based apparel retailer recently reported strong gains in same-store 
sales.  Minnesota vehicle sales were up from a year ago during May and June with truck 
sales particularly strong, accord ing to a representative of an  auto dealers association. 
While wet and cool weather slowed May and June tourism-related activities in 
some areas, tourism businesses were optimistic for the summer season. New boat 
registrations in Minnesota were down 17 pe rcent in 2013 compared with the same time 
period in 2012. Nevertheless, a Minnesota st ate tourism office survey of lodging and 
camping businesses in the state showed that  38 percent expect higher occupancy this 
summer with 46 percent expecting level occ upancy. After a slow start to the summer 
season, lodging reservations and traffic to tourism destinations  in the Upper Peninsula of 
Michigan have picked up. In Montana, lodgi ng and visits to attract ions during the first 
part of summer were up from last year. Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction activity continued to increase since th e last report. The value of 
June commercial permits in Billings, Mont., in creased significantly from last year, while 
hotel building rose to $6 million in June comp ared with zero in the first six months of 
2012. A manager of an industrial real estate co mpany noted increased interest in building 
warehouses on speculation because some purch ase prices for existing structures are 
higher than the cost of building new. Severa l national retailers are opening new stores 
this year in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. However, in Sioux Falls, S.D., the value of 
IX-2 
June permits was down from a year ago. Resident ial construction increased at a fast pace 
over past year. The value of June single-family residential building permits in Billings 
was up 28 percent from last year; multifamily building also increased significantly. The 
value of June residential permits in the Mi nneapolis-St. Paul area was up by 19 percent 
from June of 2012, while it fell in Sioux Falls.  
 Activity in commercial real estate mark ets increased since the last report. The 
University of St. Thomas semiannual survey (May) of 50 Minneapolis- St. Paul commercial real estate leaders noted  higher rents, occupa ncy, land prices and 
building material costs. Minneapolis-St. Paul area second quarter vacancy rates dropped from 
the first quarter for retail and industrial space, according to a research firm. Residential real 
estate market activity increased  at a robust pace. May home sales were up 13 percent from 
the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St.  Paul area; the invent ory of homes for sale 
was down 22 percent, and median sale prices ro se 15 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, June 
home sales were up 16 percent, inventory was down 15 percent and the median sale price 
increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier.  
Services Activity at professional business services fi rms increased since the last report. In 
Minneapolis, a technology consulting firm repor ted a recent expansion and an intellectual 
property protection firm is expanding. A la wyer at a Minnesota-based firm noted an 
uptick in corporate legal work.  
Manufacturing 
The District manufacturing s ector continued to expand sin ce the last report. A June 
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that more 
manufacturing firms increased activity in Mi nnesota and the Dakotas than in previous 
months. An electronic equipment producer is  moving forward on a plant in Minnesota. 
Another Minnesota firm that makes cable fo r utilities and telecommunications companies 
reported strong sales during the past few mont hs. Several contacts in the metal forming 
business reported that they were having very strong years, with a fe w reporting their best 
year ever. A firm that supplies capital e quipment to that industry is seeing strong 
demand; the auto sector was a particular source of strength. 
Energy and Mining Activity in the energy sector increased m oderately, while mining activity was sluggish. 
Late-June oil and gas explorati on activity increased slightly in North Dakota from the last 
IX-3 
report and was flat in Montana. A Minnesota  utility announced plans for $1.8 billion in 
upgrades to existing nuclear power plants. Re cent output at Distri ct iron ore mines was 
below year-earlier levels. However, devel opment will resume on a stalled copper-nickel 
mine project in the Upper Peninsula after the mine wa s sold to another company. 
Agriculture 
The agricultural sector weaken ed since the last report. Di strict farmers made progress 
after a late spring, but remain behind the five-year average for corn and soybean 
plantings due to recent heavy rains. In some areas, farmers are expected to switch from 
corn to soybeans due to the weather. Prices increased from a year earlier for wheat, corn, 
soybeans, chickens, milk, hogs, cattle and eggs; prices fell for turkeys and dry beans. The 
late plantings, along with c oncerns about warmer and drie r weather later this summer, 
caused the USDA to increase its corn price fore cast slightly, though prices are still 
expected to decrease from current levels. Employment, Wages and Prices 
Labor markets continued to tighten slightly. In  North Dakota, a health care administrative 
services firm plans to hire 375 new employ ees by September. A wind tower manufacturer 
recently announced plans to hire 250 workers in South Dakota when site construction is 
completed next year. A pipeline company plans to add 110 jobs in Minnesota. May 
Minnesota unemployment insurance claims were  down 2 percent from a year earlier; data 
in recent months have averaged close to  prerecession levels. However, a cellular phone 
company recently announced plans to lay off 50 employees at a plant in North Dakota. A 
software distributor announced plans to move its corporate headquarters out of 
Minnesota, eliminating 150 jobs in the state.  In May, federal government employment in 
Minnesota was at its lowest level in more  than 20 years, while state government 
employment was at its lowe st level since January 2008.  
Wage increases were moderate. Accord ing to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area 
Quarterly Business Report, 52 percent of re spondents expect to increase compensation 
over the next six months, while 45 percent e xpect no change. In last year’s survey, 38 
percent expected to increase compensa tion, while 58 percent expected no change. 
Price increases were subdued since th e last report. A Minnesota-based food 
producer noted that it expects i nput cost inflation of 3 percen t this year. Metals prices 
decreased over the past month. Minnesota ga soline prices decreased 90 cents per gallon 
from a spike in prices at the end of May; recen t prices were about the same as a year ago.  
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
The Tenth District economy grew modestly in  June, and expectations for future activity 
improved slightly. Tourism and restaurant sales edged up, while retail and automobile sales were 
steady since the last survey. Di strict manufacturers reported  slowdowns in production and 
shipments, principally due to regional storms over the survey period. Re sidential real estate 
activity continued to be strong, while commercia l real estate activity marginally increased. 
Overall banking conditions improved slightly, with  marginally higher loan demand and generally 
better loan quality. Agricultural growing conditions  improved somewhat with recent rains, which 
led to a drop in expected harvest prices for corn and soybeans.  District drilling and mining 
activity was flat, though energy cont acts expected stronger oil and natural gas drilling in coming 
months. District contacts from most sectors reported little cha nge in prices for food, building 
supplies and raw materials. Labor shortages ti cked up, but wage pressures remained modest. 
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending edged up in June, with increased tourism and 
restaurant spending, but little ch ange in automobile and retail sales. Contacts in most sectors 
expected consumer spending to improve over the next  three months. District retail sales were flat 
over the survey period. Purchases of large ticket items, such as appliances, slowed relative to 
lower-priced goods. Tourism activity and hotel occ upancy rates both rose re lative to the last 
survey period, but were similar to levels a ye ar ago. Average daily room rates were unchanged 
and were expected to remain the same in the co ming months. Restaurant sales ticked up since the 
last survey, and respondents e xpected similar levels of activity over the next few months. 
Automobile dealers reported sales were stea dy and above year-ago levels, but inventories 
continued to increase. The majority of dealers st ill expected faster sale s growth in the coming 
months.  
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing activity contracted 
slightly in June, while high-tech activity rose and transportation wa s flat.  A number of factories 
reported production delays and shipment interruptions due to recent regional storms and 
flooding. Activity was especially weak among pr oducers of food and machinery. However, 
expectations for future factory activity continued to increase. High-tech service firms reported 
that sales improved during the survey period, but ac tivity was expected to be flat over the next 
three months. Transportation activity and capital expenditures were unchanged in June compared 
 
 X-2  
to the previous survey period. Transportation fi rms reported difficulty fi nding qualified drivers, 
and some anticipated increased costs due to co mpliance with the Affordable Care Act.    
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate ac tivity remained robust, while 
commercial real estate activity ticked up in June. Residential real estate sales continued to rise. 
Prices continued on an upward trend while invent ories were somewhat lower compared to the 
prior survey period. Contacts in so me District markets reported th at low inventories slowed sales 
and put upward pressure on prices. Views on the li kely impact of rising interest rates were 
mixed. Some contacts expected that recent incr eases in mortgage rates would encourage more 
people to buy before rates increased further, wh ile others anticipated a reduction in activity. 
Recent storm damage to homes in some parts of the District was also expected to add to the 
demand for housing in those areas.  Residential builders reported solid constructi on activity, with 
expectations for further modest growth.  Commercial real estate activity ticked up during the past 
month, as construction activity co ntinued to strengthen. Sales pr ices held steady, and vacancy 
rates fell further in some areas. Contacts exp ected stronger activity in coming months, but 
several noted uncertainty ar ound rising interest rates.  
Banking.  Bankers reported slightly stronger ov erall loan demand, moderately improved 
loan quality, and slightly lower deposit leve ls.  Respondents reported stable demand for 
commercial real estate and cons umer installment loans.  Dema nd for commercial and industrial 
loans increased, while demand for residential real  estate loans decline d.  Nearly all bankers 
reported slight improvements in loan quality comp ared to a year ago. They  also expected loan 
quality to marginally improve over the next six months.  Credit standards remained unchanged in 
all major loan categories and respondents reported slightly lower deposits.   
Agriculture. Agricultural production expectations im proved somewhat with recent rains, 
but varied regionally. Summer storms  eased dry conditions in eastern  parts of the District, though 
drought persisted in western regi ons. The winter wheat harvest was underway or complete in 
Oklahoma and Kansas with highly variable yiel ds depending on the extent  of drought and freeze 
damage. Despite expectations of a poor wheat harv est in some areas, wheat prices fell since the 
last survey period. The corn and soybean crops, however, were rated in mostly good or better 
condition with the improved soil moisture. Al though corn and soybean prices remained 
historically high, improved growin g conditions led to a drop in e xpected harvest prices for both 
crops. Feedlot operators struggled with high i nput costs and falling cattle prices, but losses 
narrowed for hog producers after a rebound in hog prices. Cropland values moved higher but 
 
 X-3  
were expected to hold stea dy during the growing season.  
Energy. District energy activity he ld steady over the survey period. Overall, drilling 
activity remained stable for both oil and natural ga s in June. With oil pric es elevated and natural 
gas prices low, drilling activity was expected to c ontinue to shift away from natural gas to oil. 
However, energy contacts expected oil and natura l gas drilling to accelerate over the next few 
months. Wyoming coal production was unchanged in June, but demand has weakened over the 
past year. Ethanol production continued to e dge higher, and inventories trended down as 
profitability in the s ector improved modestly. 
  Wages and Prices. Wage pressures remained low during June, and prices were generally 
unchanged during the survey period. The percentage  of firms reporting labor  shortages increased 
slightly, but recent wage increases remained mo dest. Firms reported strong demand for long haul 
drivers, delivery drivers, skilled auto technician s and hotel housekeeping st aff. Retail prices were 
steady during June, and retailers di d not expect to raise prices over the next three months. Menu 
prices and food costs were flat during the survey  period. Food costs were expected to rise over 
the next three months, but most restaurants di d not anticipate passing the increases through to 
consumers. Raw material prices for manufacturers were unchanged in June, but expectations did 
move up moderately. Finished goods prices increased slightl y, but manufacturers projected 
future finished goods prices would be lower.  Construction supply firm s and builders reported 
that prices for construction mate rials were unchanged and neither ex pected prices to rise over the 
next three months. Similarly, transportation firm s responded that input prices were flat.   
 
XI-1 
 
ELEVENTH DISTRICT —DALLAS 
 
           The Eleventh District economy generally expanded at a slightly stronger pace over the past six 
weeks than during the previous reporting period. Ma nufacturing activity increased somewhat overall, with 
stronger reports from metals and petrochemical producers.  However, retail sales were flat after rising in 
the previous six weeks, and auto sales softened sli ghtly. Nonfinancial services firms noted a continued 
rise in activity, and demand for accounting services grew at a stronger pace. The housing sector continued 
to improve, with a rise in new construction. Offi ce and industrial leasing activity remained strong. 
Financial institutions noted growth in loan demand wa s stronger than six weeks ago, and energy activity 
remained at high levels. Drought continued to dampen  the agricultural sector. Prices held steady at most 
Eleventh District reporting firms, and employment leve ls were flat overall with scattered reports of hiring. 
 Prices   Most responding firms said prices were stab le, although there were some reports of 
increases. Airline ticket prices rose slightly because of summer demand, and transportation service firms 
expect shipping rates to increase due to a recent upt urn in jet fuel prices. Home prices rose rapidly as 
demand continued to outstrip supply.  Financial institutions reported a notable rise in mortgage rates. 
Accounting contacts said billing rates stabilized afte r earlier increases were successfully implemented. 
Retail prices were unchanged since the last report. 
 Oil prices rose slightly over the reporting pe riod. Natural gas prices fell below $4 per mcf. 
Gasoline prices edged down and diesel prices increased.   Labor Market    Employment held steady at most responding firms, although there were more 
reports of hiring than at the time of the last re port. Nominal employment increases were reported by 
retailers, and hiring was noted by some primary meta ls and cement manufacturers. Accounting and legal 
firms continued to add workers in selected business areas. A railroad contact reported employment growth, but the hiring was concentrated outside the El eventh District. Difficulty finding qualified workers 
became more widespread, with scattered reports am ong accounting, finance, single-family construction, 
auto sales, and primary metals manufacturing firms, as well as from retailers in the Eagle Ford Shale area.  
 Wage pressures remained mostly subdued, a lthough increased compensation was reported in 
accounting and legal services.   Manufacturing    Manufacturing activity improved slightly over the reporting period. 
Construction-related manufacturers said demand was flat  or up, and a cement producer noted very strong 
demand from residential construction, allowing the company to choose which projects to take on. 
Outlooks were more optimistic than in prior peri ods. Primary metals manufacturers said demand held 
steady at strong levels, although there wasn’t much en thusiasm regarding the remainder of the year. An 
XI-2 
 
exception was commercial construction-re lated demand, which is expected to pick up. Fabricated metals 
firms noted improved demand and positive outlooks.  High tech orders and production were flat to slightly up since the last report. Semiconductor 
manufacturers reported some improvement in demand for memory equipment but weakness for logic 
devices. Demand is expected to be flat in the second half of the year, although there was increased 
concern that orders may weaken. 
Paper manufacturers said demand was less volatile  than earlier in the year, and business is 
expected to stay roughly at current levels in th e near-term. Food producers said demand held steady and 
outlooks remained positive. 
Transportation manufacturing contacts reported st eady or slightly increased demand, with 
business generally improved from a year ago. Most firms expect strong demand through year end.  
Petrochemical producers noted some pickup in activity since the last report, although most 
markets were stable. Contacts remained positive in  their domestic outlooks, but global weakness was 
weighing on the overall picture. Refiners said opera ting rates and margins were up over the reporting 
period. 
Retail Sales   Retail sales volumes held steady over the reporting period and were up from a year 
ago. Outlooks for the rest of the year were positive, w ith growth expected to continue at about the same 
pace as in the first half. 
Automobile sales were slightly softer than six weeks ago but remained strong. Demand was up 
year over year. Selling prices held steady at very co mpetitive levels over the reporting period. Outlooks 
for the third quarter were optimistic, and contacts exp ect the rest of 2013 to be strong. However, there 
was continued concern about rising costs, pa rticularly from the Af fordable Care Act. 
Nonfinancial Services    Most nonfinancial services firms noted increased demand since the last 
report, although staffing services contacts offered mixe d reports: high-level IT workers and engineering 
project managers were in high demand, while dema nd weakened for lower-skilled positions. One staffing 
services firm saw more placements at the end of the quarter than usual. Accounting firms reported a 
strong increase in demand since the last Beige Book, led by transactions work. There was a good backlog 
of work, so contacts are expecting a strong third quarter. Legal firms noted modest demand growth, but work was down year-over-year on a per-lawyer basi s. Real estate work continued to rise, although 
lawyers became somewhat concerned about interest ra te risk. Contacts noted a lack of litigation work, and 
demand for energy work experienced a little softness although it remained strong. Firms expect to see 
improvement on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter. 
Transportation service firms said cargo and container volumes increased over the reporting 
period, except for air cargo, which held steady. Ra ilroad contacts reported a slight increase in overall 
XI-3 
 
volumes, with notable increases in motor vehicles and crushed stone. Container volumes were up strongly 
in May, and retail trade continued to lead the growth  in small parcel shipments, which increased in May 
for the third consecutive month. Outl ooks were generally less positive than at the time of the last report. 
Airline contacts noted a seasonal increase in p assenger demand over the past six weeks, with 
demand roughly in line with year-ago levels. Firms e xpect demand to slow as the leisure travel period 
ends. One contact expects 2013 to be about the same or  slightly better than 2012, while another has an 
uncertain outlook. 
Construction and Real Estate   Activity in the housing sector continued to grow at a strong pace 
over the reporting period. Single-family home sales continued to outpace supply, leading to very low 
inventories and rapid price increases. Building activity picked up but was not yet able to meet demand in 
the major metro areas. Slightly higher mortgage rat es are not expected to derail demand, according to 
most contacts. Apartment demand remained at high  levels. Apartment construction rose in the major 
metros, where occupancies were above 90 percent.  
Leasing activity for office and indust rial space was strong over the past six weeks, particularly in 
Houston and Dallas. Construction ac tivity picked up in both Houston and Dallas, with numerous office 
and industrial projects underway. Contacts noted th at the recent increase in in terest rates has caused 
concern in the commercial investment markets, although the impact has been minimal so far 
Financial Services    Financial institutions experience d moderate growth in loan demand. 
Commercial real estate and transactions lending increased  solidly, especially in oil and gas areas around the 
Eagle Ford Shale and West Texas. Demand for auto  loans grew strongly. Loan quality was good and 
continued to improve, and borrowers were still paying down debt rapidly.  Loan pricing remained extremely 
competitive, and community banks were often outbid by regional banks. Mortgage rates rose in June. 
Deposits and deposit rates were flat to slightly down. Th e outlook for loan demand is optimistic, with a robust 
pipeline for mortgages.  
Energy    Energy activity was little changed at high levels. Global demand held steady, although 
there was some weakness from Mexico and Canada. R espondents expect improvement in energy activity 
in the second half of the year, due in part to antic ipated increases in rig activity and production from the 
Gulf of Mexico.  
Agriculture    Much of the Eleventh District rema ined in severe drought, with conditions little 
changed from the last reporting period. Row crop farm ers completed planting, and crop conditions were 
mostly fair to good, according to respondents. The wheat harvest continued, but production was sharply 
reduced as a very large share of the acres plante d was abandoned because of drought and freeze damage. 
Livestock feedlots and meat processors continued to suffer greatly from high feed costs and a shrinking 
cattle herd. 
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary 
Economic activity in the Twelfth District expa nded at a modest pace during the reporting period 
of late May through early July. Price inflation w as minimal for most final goods and services, and upward 
wage pressures were mostly muted. Retail sales of goods grew modestly over all, although demand for 
business and consumer services was mixed. District  manufacturing activity improved. Production and 
sales of agricultural items expanded. Demand for hou sing strengthened, and commercial real estate 
activity trended up further. Contacts from financial institutions reported increased overall loan demand.  
Prices and Wages  
 Price inflation was minimal for most final goods  and services. Food industry contacts noted price 
increases for some protein items, including fish, poultry,  and beef. Reports from health-care organizations 
mentioned that the pace of increase s in insurance premiums has sl owed. Competitive industry pressures 
constrained fees for legal and accounting services.  Driven by demand, prices of some construction inputs, 
such as logs, edged up further.  
Contacts reported that upward wage pressures were muted overall. Slack in the labor market held 
back wage gains in most sectors, occupations, and regions. However, firms in various industries 
continued to compete vigorously for a limited pool of  qualified workers to fill certain technical positions, 
spurring significant wage growth for occ upations such as software developers.  
Retail Trade and Services 
 Retail sales grew modestly.  Grocery and appare l retailers noted modest sales growth at retail 
store locations and relatively strong sales growth online.  The retail grocery industry in particular appears 
to be shifting away from traditional large stores and towards e-commerce.  Most contacts’ outlook for 
consumer spending improved slightly since the prior reporting period.  Contacts noted that an increase in 
demand for new devices has spurred some technology firms to expand their medium-term hiring plans.  
Suppliers of food and beverage products noted improved conditions, although sales of selected 
discretionary items, such as pet supplies, were a bit soft.  As home purchases have increased, so has 
XII - 2 
spending on housing-related products, such as furniture. New and used automobile sales were robust, and 
some dealers expanded their inventories in antic ipation of a further pickup in summer sales. 
 Demand for business and consumer services remained mixed. Robust activity in Hawaii 
supported the District’s travel and tourism sector, although there is some concern that the flow of 
international visitors could subside in coming mont hs due to weakness in the global economy. After 
slipping early in the year, travel and tourist activity in  Southern California appeared to pick up somewhat 
toward the end of the second quarter.  However, tour ist activity in Las Vegas remained soft through the 
first half of 2013.  Demand for elective health- care services stayed relatively weak, while demand for 
other discretionary services, such as restau rant dining, appeared to strengthen.  
Manufacturing  
 District manufacturing activity grew overall in the reporting period of late May through early 
July. Although demand was weak for some electr onic components, contacts indicated substantial 
increases in new orders for semiconductors.  Led by launches of innovative products, demand for 
pharmaceuticals gained further. Wood product manufacturers  appeared to ramp up output to levels that 
exceeded demand in recent weeks.  As such, firms are expected to pare back production plans for the 
second half of the year.  Demand for steel products  used primarily in nonresidential construction 
continued to increase.  Steel producers reported that capacity utilization ticked up a bit further, and reports 
of intensified energy usage across multiple goods-p roducing sectors in the Pacific Northwest implied 
improved capacity utilization in the region.   
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  
 Agricultural sales and production activity expa nded. Demand was strong for most crop and 
livestock products. However, some contacts expressed concern about the lack of availability of manual 
laborers. Insufficient water also was a concern in parts of  the District, with this year’s rain and snow pack 
levels running well below seasonal norms.  Contact s from the oil and gas industry faced challenges 
finding qualified geologists, geophysic ists, and drillers to fill open positions.  Inventories of natural gas 
rose further, and demand for gasoline edged up.  Re ports from the utilities industry indicated that business 
XII - 3 
demand for electricity from wood products and aeros pace firms has risen robustly, although overall 
demand growth was more modest.   Real Estate and Construction 
 Demand for housing strengthened substantially, and commercial real estate activity continued to 
trend up in most areas. Both sales transactions and ho use prices climbed further in many District cities. 
The pace of housing starts exceeded the expectations of some contacts.  In some areas, the supply of 
homes for sale remained low, and some properties have  received multiple offers from prospective buyers.  
Construction of multifamily residential projects incr eased on balance.  Commercial real estate activity 
expanded rapidly in some major metropolitan areas,  even though construction of publicly funded 
commercial projects has slowed in some regions due to funding constraints from state and local 
governments.  
Financial Institutions 
Reports from financial institutions indicated that  loan demand continued to increase.  Contacts 
noted an uptick in applicants seeking residentia l construction loans and commercial office building 
mortgages.  In line with reports of an improve d outlook for business investment, banking contacts 
indicated that some firms have recently expanded thei r borrowing in order to invest in long-deferred 
expansion and capital improvement plans.  Althoug h banking contacts highlighted generally stiff 
competition for well-qualified business borrowers, they also noted more lending opportunities.  However, 
hiring plans were mixed, with some financial instituti ons expecting to expand their payrolls significantly 
and others mentioning possible layoffs.  In the Distri ct’s Internet and digital media sectors, mergers and 
acquisitions activity stepped up in recent months.  Howe ver, the pace of initial p ublic offerings remained 
slow, and both venture capital and private e quity activity were relatively weak.   