               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. 
               W e d n e s d a y  
               March 5, 2008 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
 
 
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
 
 
FEBRUARY 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY ……………………………………………………………….….…... i 
 
First District – Boston  …………………………………………………….……..I-1 
 
Second District – New York  …………………………………………….…….. II-1 
 
Third District – Phil adelphia  …………………………………………………..III-1 
 
Fourth District – Cleveland  ……………………..…………………….…….... IV-1 
 
Fifth District – Richmond  ………………………………………………….….. V-1 
 
Sixth District – Atlanta  …………………………………………………….…. VI-1 
 
Seventh District – Chicago  ……………………………………………….…...VII-1 
 
Eighth District – St. Louis  …………..…………………………………..……VIII-1 
 
Ninth District – Minneapolis  …………….…………………………………… IX-1 
 
Tenth District – Kansas City  …………….…………………………………….. X-1 
 
Eleventh District – Dallas  ……………….………..…………………..………. XI-1 
 
Twelfth District – San Francisco  ..……….……………….………………….. XII-1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i 
SUMMARY1
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that economic growth has slowed since 
the beginning of the year.  Two-thirds of the Distri cts cited softening or weakening in the pace of business 
activity, while the others referred to subdued, slow, or  modest growth.  Retail activity in most Districts 
was reported to be weak or softening, although tourism generally continued to expand.  Services 
industries in many Districts, including staffing services in Boston, port activity in New York, and truck 
freight volume in Cleveland, appeared to be slowi ng, but activity in services provided some positive news 
in Richmond and Dallas.  Manufacturing was said to be sluggish or to have slowed in about half the 
Districts, while several others indicated manufacturing results were mixed or trends were steady.  
Residential real estate markets generally remained weak; reports on commercial real estate 
markets were somewhat mixed, but also suggest slowing,  on balance, in many Districts.  Most Districts 
reporting on banking cite tight or tightening credit standa rds and stable or weaker loan demand.  Districts 
reporting on the agriculture and energy sect ors said activity is generally strong.  
Upward pressure on prices from rising materials and energy prices was noted in almost all the 
District reports, but Philadelphia said increases in i nput costs and output prices had recently become less 
prevalent, and San Francisco indicated pressures were limited for products other than food and energy.  
By contrast, wage and salary pressures were generally said to be modest, as the hiring pace slowed in 
various sectors and labor markets loosened somewhat in many Districts.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Reports on retail spending were generally downbeat, although Boston, St. Louis, and Dallas 
described sales as mixed and Kansas City reported that consumer spending was “largely unchanged” 
since the previous survey period.  The majority of Districts characterized sales as below plan, downbeat, 
weak, or having softened.  Among product categories, a pparel sales were soft in New York, Philadelphia, 
                                                      
1  Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and based on information collected on or before February 25, 
2008.  This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve 
and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
ii 
and Richmond, but strong in Boston.  Several Districts noted declines in sales of big-ticket and/or home-
related items.   
Districts commenting on vehicle sales described th em as slow or sluggish, with little exception.  
Contacts in Dallas attributed an uptick in auto sal es to increased advertising and incentives.  Chicago 
dealerships reported some increases in used car sales in February.  Dealers in the Philadelphia District 
expected sales to increase later in the year, but Cl eveland did not expect significant change in the 
upcoming months.   
The majority of reports on tourism were positive, on balance, although most Districts mentioned 
some areas of softening.  The San Francisco District  commented that while tourism in Hawaii had fallen 
from previous levels, activity in California remained stable, partly because of growing foreign travel 
resulting from the lower exchange value of the U.S. do llar.  Minneapolis reported an increase in tourism 
activity generally relating to winter sports.  Touris m and travel in Kansas City, Atlanta, New York, and 
Chicago were also mostly positive.   
Nonfinancial Services  
Reports from nonfinancial services industries were mixed.  Health-care services expanded in the 
Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts, while contacts in the St. Louis District reported a 
softening and plans to lay off workers.  Software  and IT services respondents in Boston reported modest 
growth. 
Available reports from staffing firms pointed to mixed demand for temporary labor.  The Boston, 
New York, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts reported weaker staffing requests re lative to a year ago; 
Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas reported stable to increased demand.  Boston noted increased demand 
from the biopharmaceutical and aerospace industries, while Dallas contacts saw an increased demand for temporary workers in IT, engineering, and oil-rela ted services.  A large New York employment agency 
found that despite widely announced layoff plans at fi nancial firms, they saw no noticeable increase in the 
number of job candidates.  Boston and A tlanta noted improved labor supply.   
iii 
All Districts reporting on transportation services noted weaker activity in the first quarter of 2008 
compared with the previous quarter.  Trucking and shipping respondents from the Richmond and Dallas 
Districts reported declining import volumes, which more than offset growth in exports, stimulated by the 
depreciation of the dollar.  However, airlines in t hose Districts in reported higher passenger volumes since 
the start of the year.   
Manufacturing 
Reports on the manufacturing sector were mixe d but, on the whole, subdued.  New York, 
Philadelphia, Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas indicat ed that production or shipments were sluggish or 
falling.  Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco ch aracterized activity as varying across industries.  
Boston, Cleveland, and Chicago indicated stable levels  or trends.  Only St. Louis noted a strengthening 
relative to prior reports.   
Various Districts cited strong demand for steel, airc raft and parts, energy-related equipment, and 
exports, but mostly continued weak markets for produc ts and equipment used for building and furnishing 
homes.  Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas indicated that  automotive production and sales have been light or 
declining.  On the other hand, the Cleveland District saw an uptick in the production of foreign nameplates during January, and St. Louis was antic ipating additional capacity and employment in 
automotive parts manufacturing.  Dallas reported that refining production fell in the face of weak 
margins.  Reports on food processing were mixed, with  some Districts indicating that high prices were 
constraining demand, while others cited rising demand.  Boston and New York mentioned that some 
manufacturers are experiencing slower payments from their customers. 
All Districts commenting on the near-term outlook mentioned caution or concern on the part of at 
least some segments of manufacturing.  Boston, Ph iladelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco indicated 
that some firms are adjusting their hiring or capital spending plans downward.  A couple of Districts mentioned risks associated with financing constraints.  For example, Chicago cited concerns on the part 
iv 
of the auto industry that tight cr edit would cause its customers to become more price-sensitive and less 
able to obtain car loans. 
Real Estate and Construction   
Residential real estate markets were generally weak  over the last couple of months.  Sales were 
low in every District with very few local exceptions.  Sales declines were particularly large in the Boston, 
Minneapolis, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts; at least some respondents in each of these Districts 
reported drops in home sales of more than 20 percent year-over-year.  Contacts in the Chicago, Kansas 
City, and Philadelphia Districts cited tight credit conditions as a reason for low sales; each of those Districts either reported or expected stabilization of  demand for homes in the low and mid-price ranges. 
Districts that reported home prices all saw overa ll declines; one exception was the Manhattan co-
op and condo market, where prices increased 5 percent co mpared with a year ago.  Inventories remained 
high as demand was still fairly low.  A few contacts in  the Chicago, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts 
reported an increase in inquiries, although this incr ease in traffic had not yet translated into increased 
sales.  Residential construction declined or rema ined at low levels in most Districts.   
The markets for office and retail space showed signs  of a slowdown in several Districts.  Office 
vacancies were reported up, and leasing volumes dow n, in Manhattan, Baltimore, Washington, D.C., 
Memphis, portions of Maine and Rhode Island, and L as Vegas.  Districts indicated that office vacancies 
held steady in Boston and the Carolinas, and were dow n in Philadelphia and in the Minneapolis and St. 
Louis Districts; however, contacts in the Boston and Philadelphia Districts and see some emerging slack.  
Office rents were mixed, however, coming in about flat  in greater Boston and Manhattan, either flat or 
down in the Richmond District, and up in Philade lphia.  Retail vacancy was reported up in the 
Minneapolis District and retail space demand was describ ed as slow in the Chicago District.  Demand for 
industrial space was described as either “firm” or “fla t” in the Districts commenting on that sector.   
Sales activity in nonresidential markets was down in the Boston, Dallas, Kansas City, and 
Chicago Districts, with contacts citing tight credit conditions as a major factor.  Office sales activity 
v 
remained strong, however, in the ma jor cities of the New York District and in the San Francisco District.  
Eight of the twelve Districts reported that nonreside ntial construction activity was slow; countering these 
reports, the Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco Distri cts indicated that construction remained strong.   
Banking and Finance 
Reports on loan demand for commercial, industrial,  and residential mortgage loans varied across 
Districts.  Overall loan demand was flat in San Fr ancisco and weakened in the Kansas City, St. Louis, 
Dallas, New York, and Richmond Districts.  Consumer lending was flat or declining in the St. Louis, 
Chicago, and Cleveland Districts.  Commercial and industrial loan demand was mixed in San Francisco 
and remained stable or declined in the Kansas City, St. Louis, Dallas, New York, and Richmond Districts.  By contrast, the Chicago and Cleveland Districts reported increased business lending.  Even as loan 
demand for new residential mortgages remained sluggi sh or declined, lower in terest rates prompted 
increases in refinancing of existing mortgages in a number of Districts, including San Francisco, St. 
Louis, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Cleveland, and Chicago.  Cleveland cited a small rise in 
delinquencies, especially for real estate loans, and Atlanta reported an increase in mortgage delinquencies 
and foreclosures.  New York, on the other hand, saw a rise in delinquencies for all loan categories except 
residential mortgages, which were unchanged.  Tight credit standards were reported in the Atlanta, San 
Francisco, Kansas City, St. Louis, Chicago, Dallas, Richmond, and New York Districts.  Kansas City 
indicated a worsening of overall loan quality, Chicago reported a deterioration of  consumer loan quality, 
and Cleveland also saw a decline in credit quality fo r business customers and consumers.  By contrast, 
Dallas reported sound credit quality.   
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
 The Chicago, San Francisco, Minneapolis, St . Louis, and Dallas Districts reported strong 
conditions in the agriculture sector, including high pr ices for winter wheat, corn, soybeans, sorghum, and 
hogs, and increased production of some crops.  By contrast, Atlanta and Richmond indicated that 
although recent rain had improved conditions in Ma ryland and Virginia, drought conditions persisted in 
vi 
other areas, and range pasture conditions remained poor .  Farm incomes and/or value of production rose 
in several Districts during 2007, although Kentuc ky farmers saw no change and Tennessee farmers saw 
declines compared to 2006.  Increases in input costs, including prices of fuel, fertilizer, and feed were 
mentioned by Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco as potentially affecting future production and 
incomes; Chicago and Dallas also cited recent weat her-related problems that threaten production this 
spring.  Increases in the value of farmland were reported by Chicago and Minneapolis.  
All Districts reporting on energy cited robust leve ls of activity and steady or higher prices; in 
addition, Kansas City and Cleveland mentioned incr eases in hiring. However, Dallas noted that drilling 
had flattened domestically and declined in the Gulf of Mexico, leaving activity outside of North America 
to drive future growth, while Kansas City, Clevela nd, and Minneapolis expected exploration and capital 
spending to increase going forward.  Rates for dur able equipment, and drilling and evaluation services 
were reported to be flat to declining.  However, price pressures, regulatory costs, and tightening credit were mentioned as providing possible future impediments to increased production. 
Prices and Wages 
Business contacts in many Districts cited price pressures from vendors and mixed success in 
raising their own prices to recoup the increased costs.  Manufacturing contacts in the Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts pointed to rising costs for raw 
materials or other inputs, while manufacturing firms in  the New York District reported more widespread 
increases in prices paid “than in well over a year.”  By contrast, Philadelphia noted somewhat less prevalent increases in input costs and output prices in February than in January, except for increased 
mention of rising prices for imported goods.  Upward pressures on input costs from high or rising energy 
prices were frequently cited, which also translated into increased transportation and shipping costs.  Price 
increases for metals, petrochemicals, and food were also mentioned often. The San Francisco District, 
however, indicated that price pressures were limited except for food and energy.  Firms’ ability to pass along cost increases by raising selling prices varied.  Th e Boston District noted that retail contacts were 
vii 
passing some price increases on to customers, and some manufacturers were raising selling prices to 
partially offset rising costs; half the manufacturers co ntacted in the Cleveland District had raised prices or 
added surcharges since the previous report.  The Dall as and Atlanta Districts reported that some firms 
raised prices but others were constrained by co mpetitive pressures; Chicago indicated that contacts 
outside of construction and retail were passing cost increases along to customers. In the Kansas City 
District, factory goods’ prices had escalated, but retail prices were mostly stable. 
Most Districts indicated that contacted businesses reported limited wage pressures, moderate 
wage increases, and some loosening of labor mark ets.  While Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, and San 
Francisco noted short supplies of selected types of skilled labor relative to demand, they and the New 
York, Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts cite d pullbacks in the pace of hiring by some firms.  
Furthermore, several Districts, including New York , Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Atlanta, reported 
increased prevalence of layoffs, reductions  in work hours, or hiring freezes. 
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
First District retailers and manufacturers indicat e their sales and revenues continue expanding or 
contracting mostly as in recent reports, but downside risks have become more prominent. Contacts at 
software and information technology services firms and staffing firms point to slower growth. Real estate 
markets continue to be soft. Price pressures remain an issue, with only a subset of contacts saying they are 
able to pass cost increases along to their customers, at least partially. Many respondents express concern 
about how soon and how smoothly turmoil in credit markets will be resolved. 
Retail 
Retail respondents in the First District cite mixed sales results for the months of January and 
February. Retailers report that sales of home-related and big ticket items have consistently been down, 
while sales of apparel, shoes, accessories, televi sions, and sporting goods ar e strong. However, two 
respondents are concerned about credit market turmoil and its potential effects on their customers.   
Inventory levels and employment are generally st able. Capital spending is mixed. A majority of 
contacted First District retailers mention varying degrees of price pressure, with several respondents pointing specifically to vendor items and their own operating costs related to oil. A few respondents note 
modest increases are being passed along to consumers wher e possible, or say they expect to raise prices in 
the near future. 
Overall, First District retailers are cautious in their outlook and expect 2008 to be challenging. At 
the same time, many are confident in their ability to pull through this  period of economic uncertainty.  
Manufacturing and Related Services  
For the most part, manufacturers and related service s providers headquartered in the First District 
report unchanged revenue trends in fourth quarter 2007 and early 2008, but they indicate that downside risks have risen. A capital goods manufacturer is experiencing somewhat slower payments from 
customers and cites anecdotal evidence that highly-leve raged commercial real esta te developers may have 
to curtail their purchases. A biotech equipment maker is experiencing year-over-year declines in sales to 
some of its largest customers. Suppliers to the hom e construction industry mostly indicate they do not see 
demand bottoming out before year-end. Many manuf acturers have experienced robust overseas sales 
because of foreign economic growth or dollar deprecia tion, but some see signs that these factors will not 
be quite as favorable in 2008 as they were in 2007. Se veral firms are making efforts to reduce inventories.  
Manufacturers continue to voice concerns about high, rising, or volatile materials costs, 
especially metals and petrochemicals; per-unit energy  costs also are said to be high. Manufacturers are 
anticipating that input costs will remain high or in crease further in coming months. Respondents generally 
indicate that their selling prices are either stable or  rising to offset cost increases to some degree. 
Manufacturers continue to adjust their U.S. headcounts only minimally. However, various firms 
have become more cautious with respect to hiring. One contact that expanded its headcount in fourth 
quarter 2007 is planning to hold employment steady in the first half of 2008 because of uncertainty. 
 
I - 2 
Another respondent that held its empl oyment constant over the last several months is unlikely to continue 
to do so in the face of mounting pressures to cut cost s. Average pay increases are expected to remain in 
the range of 3 percent to 4 percent, but several fi rms are planning somewhat higher pay raises in 2008 
than in 2007. On the whole, contacts say their capital spending for 2008 is likely to be normal or steady. 
  Many manufacturers express growing concerns of  one sort or another about financial markets 
for their own firm or its customers, or in the broa der economy. For example, one  respondent is concerned 
about the liquidity of its investments in light of pending payment commitments. Se veral contacts say they 
are thankful that their company’ s capital needs are limited, given current terms and availability. 
Software and Information Technology Services 
All software and IT services contacts in the First District report modest year-over year quarterly 
revenue growth for the most recent quarter, although several respondents indicate that some or much of 
the growth reflects special factors such as forei gn currency gains or acquisitions. The majority of 
respondents are adding technology workers and sales staff, although at a slower pace than in the previous 
quarter. One firm notes a decline in turnover rates, while a few other contacts report that the labor market appears to have eased. All contacted firms have raised  pay, generally by around 4 percent annually.  
The majority of New England software and info rmation technology firms are projecting revenues 
to continue growing at current rates. However, several not e that downside risks have increased. 
Staffing Services 
Staffing respondents in the New England region  give mixed reports on the level of business 
activity this quarter. The majority of firms are e xperiencing what one contact described as “a marked 
slowdown” after a busy holiday season, but year-over-year revenues have remained the same or increased, with one report of a 16 percent revenue ri se in January 2008 as compared with January 2007. 
Respondents indicate high labor demand from the bi opharmaceutical and aerospace industries, with 
particular need for data management hires. Labor supply has improved, but highly-skilled applicants for 
senior-level positions are still in short supply.  
Most firms are taking new measures to attract clients, through strategic marketing initiatives, 
partnerships with other companies, and transitions  from print to web advertising. Respondents report 
stable or increasing costs, with the primary incr ease being health insurance for employees. The main 
concern expressed by nearly all respondents is the health of the overall national economy. Contacts fear 
that instability will lead firms to delay new project s, with “trickle-down effects” in other sectors, 
including staffing. Despite this concern, respondents are hopeful for growth in upcoming quarters. 
Commercial Real Estate 
Contacts report that the financing situation for co mmercial real estate continues to worsen. They 
say the commercial mortgage-backed securities market  remains largely dormant, with the exception of 
one successful offering of a group of mortgages on mu ltifamily properties. Life insurance lenders have 
also pulled back significantly from commercial real estate lending in the past couple of months; one 
 
I - 3 
contact surmises they are rationing credit now to con serve their limited capacity for later in the year. A 
small bank in Boston reports a 30 percent increase in  its commercial lending volume over last year, 
mostly in refinancing, but says it may reach its lending limits before the end of the year. Equity 
requirements have been pushed up to as high as 40 percent by some lenders. With buyers facing such 
tight credit, very few sellers are putting properties up for sale and very few deals are closing, making it 
difficult to assess price changes.  
Leasing volume has remained steady or slowed in  New England. In the downtown Boston office 
market, rents appear to be holding. The same goes for Hartford and Providence, but rents continue to fall 
gradually in Maine. Contacts see retailers elimin ating underperforming locations and pulling back on 
commitments to new stores, but with no dramatic rise  in overall retail vacancy or fall in rents. Rhode 
Island has some of the highest commercial vacancy rat es in the region, up sharply from six months ago.  
Contacts expect absorption to hover around zero or slightly negative in the coming months, 
leading to gradual increases in vacancy throughout the re gion. Credit market turmoil is expected to persist 
into the third or fourth quarter of 2008. Some s till characterize Boston as a very desirable market, but 
others see looming financial sector layoffs taking steam  out of its office market in the coming months.  
Residential Real Estate 
New England residential real estate markets again showed large sales drops in December and 
January compared to a year ago. Massachusetts single-family home sales decreased 20 percent year-over-year in December while condo sales decreased 28 percent. Home sales also declined around 20 percent year-over-year for Maine in December and Rhode Is land in the fourth quarter. New Hampshire saw sales 
declines of 21 percent in December and 25 percen t in January. Contacts say potential buyers lack 
confidence because of all the talk of a housing “collapse” and broader economic slowdown. A New Hampshire contact says the market for second homes and vacation homes has been hit particularly hard.  
Median home prices have declined modestly in New England markets, with prices down 3 
percent to 5 percent in December or January from a year earlier in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine. Prices dropped 6 percent year-over-year in Rhode Island in the fourth quarter. However, median condo prices have held steady in Massachusetts; a cont act says this is because the high end of the condo 
market has been somewhat insulated from general housing problems. 
 
 II-1 
 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has softened since the last report.  Manufacturers report 
substantial weakening in business activity as of mid-February.  Port activity is also reported to be weaker, 
while, more generally, contacts outside the manufacturing sector report deterioration in business activity and a pullback in hiring.  Retailers indicate that sales have been below plan thus far in 2008, though 
inventories are reported to be at satisfactory levels.  Tourism activity in New York City has shown some 
signs of slowing in recent weeks but remains strong.   Housing markets continue to be sluggish, though 
Manhattan’s co-op and condo market has shown some resilience.  Manhattan’s office market remains tight, but vacancy rates have edged up and rents have decelerated.  Finally, bankers report some continued weakening in demand for new loans but a pickup in refinancing activity; respondents also report ongoing tightening in credit standards and rising delinquency rates, particularly on non-residential 
mortgages.  
Consumer Spending  
Retailers report weak sales results for January a nd, to a lesser extent, for the first half of 
February.  Overall, sales were characterized as below plan and down from a year ago.  One chain reports sales of women’s apparel as particularly sluggish, while another describes big-ticket home goods as the weakest category.  Consumer surveys point to increas ed pessimism: Siena College’s survey of New York 
State residents shows consumer confidence falling fo r the fourth straight month and reaching a new 
cyclical low in January, while the Conference Boar d’s survey of Middle Atlantic residents shows 
confidence holding steady at a more than 2-year low in January, after falling precipitously in late 2007. 
Tourism activity in New York City slowed a bit in early 2008 but was still at a high level.  Hotel 
occupancy rates were reported to be roughly on par with a year earlier in January and early February; prices and total revenues decelerated slightly but were still up 10-12 percent from a year earlier. Broadway theaters report that attendance has been fairly strong in January and early February, rising 3-4 
 II-2 
 
percent from a year earlier; however, total revenues were up just 1 percent, reflecting a decline in the 
average effective ticket price.  
Construction and Real Estate 
New York City’s office market showed some signs  of slackening in January, with some slowing 
in leasing activity.  Manhattan’s office vacancy rate ro se modestly to 7.6 percen t in January, about equal 
to a year earlier.  Asking rents were little changed from year-end 2007 levels and were up more than 20 percent from a year earlier.  Office purchase markets across the District have been mixed: sales prices 
and transactions volumes showed c ontinued strength across most of the New York City area, as well as 
Albany and Buffalo, but were less robust in northern New Jersey and metropolitan Rochester.  The 
market for industrial properties has shown more widespread weakness across the region.   
Housing markets in the District have generally weakened since the last report.  New Jersey’s 
housing market is reported to have seen a decline in transactions, with large gaps between asking prices 
and offers.  The inventory of available units remain s high but has retreated somewhat, as some sellers 
have taken their homes off the market.  Builders have curtailed most new construction projects; one 
industry expert cites as a major problem the fact that prices for redevelopment land have not come down 
in line with home prices.  
Manhattan’s co-op and condo market is reported to have remained fairly stable in early 2008, 
with transaction activity roughly on par with a year ago, and prices up by about 5 percent.  There was a normal seasonal increase in the inventory of units on the market in January.  
Other Business Activity 
A major NYC employment agency, specializing in office jobs, reports that hiring activity slowed 
noticeably in January but picked up in early February and was almost on par with a year earlier.  Despite 
widely announced layoff plans at financial firms, this firm reports no noticeable increase in the number of 
 II-3 
 
available job candidates.  Large financial firms are reported to be hiring only sporadically but hedge 
funds and private equity firms are still hiring at a good pace.  
New York State manufacturers report that busine ss activity weakened noti ceably in January and 
early February, while employment weakened moderately. Firms also report more widespread increases in prices paid than in well over a year.  More than two in five manufacturing contacts indicate that their customers have become slower in paying their bills in recent months, and more than one in five say that 
they have grown slower in paying their vendors.  Port of New York import traffic has reportedly slowed 
noticeably in early 2008.  More generally, non-manufacturing firms in the District report widespread weakening in both general business activity and net hiring activity in January and early February.  Firms have also scaled back capital spending plans somewhat.    
Financial Developments  
Bankers report lower demand for all types of loans—most notably in the residential mortgage 
category, though to a lesser degree than in January.  However, for the first time in more than four years, bankers report an increase in refinancing activity.  For all loan categories, respondents indicated a tightening of credit standards, with close to a qua rter of bankers reporting higher standards in each 
category; no bankers report eased standards for a ny type of loan.  Bankers indicate no change, on 
balance, in the spreads of loan rates over cost of funds—a sizable proportion of respondents reported increases and decreases in each category, but the re sponses were evenly split.  Bankers also report a 
widespread decrease in the average deposit rate.  Fina lly, respondents indicated a rise in delinquencies in 
all loan categories except residential mortgages, where bankers indicated no change in delinquencies.   
III - 1 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Business activity appeared to be weakening slightly in the Third District in February. 
Manufacturers, on balance, reporte d declines in new orders and shipments. Retailers generally 
reported small year-over-year decreases, and auto  sales continued to fall. Overall bank lending 
has been rising slowly, although some banks re ported drops in commercial and industrial 
lending. Residential real estate sales and construction remained well below the year-ago pace. 
Commercial construction has ease d. Reports of increases in input  costs and output prices were 
somewhat less prevalent in February than they were in January, although reports of rising import 
prices have become more widespread. Wage in creases were reported to be moderate. Several 
firms in the District noted that they had implemented hiring freezes. 
The outlook among Third District business contacts has become less positive. 
Manufacturers, on balance, expect decreases in new orders during the ne xt six months, although 
they expect a rise in shipments. Retailers have  generally revised their 2008 forecasts down and 
now expect only slight gains, if any, in sales. Auto dealers expect  sales in 2008 to be below sales 
in 2007. Bankers anticipate very slow expansion in  overall lending. Residentia l real estate agents 
expect sales to continue to be slow, but they expe ct to see some signs that the fall in sales might 
reach a bottom this year. Contacts in commercial r eal estate anticipate slow er leasing activity this 
year compared with last year. Ne vertheless, they expect rental ra tes, which rose last year, to 
show little change in 2008.  
 
Manufacturing 
Third District manufacturers, on balance, re ported falling shipments and new orders in 
February compared with January. Around one-four th of the manufacturers surveyed noted 
increases and around one-third not ed decreases. Manufacturers al so reported a drop in order 
backlogs, on balance.  Increas ed demand for their products was reported by makers of apparel 
and by some producers of industrial materials an d equipment.  Decreased demand was noted by 
producers of lumber products, furniture, construction materials, and metals.  Several 
manufacturers noted that their business was being adversely affected by declining residential construction activity.  They reported that dema nd for their products from the “housing and 
III - 2 
housing-related market, including home improvement is slow,” with substantial declines from 
last year.  
The outlook in the Third District manufacturing sector is not strong. On balance, 
manufacturers polled in February  expect a further decline in new orders during the next six 
months, although they predict ship ments will edge up.  However, th ey expect order backlogs to 
fall further.  Capital spending pl ans at area manufacturing firms have been cut back, on balance, 
since the start of the year.  In contrast to a net increase in spending among firms surveyed in 
January, firms contacted in February indicated th at their capital spending will be only steady, on 
balance, during the next six months. 
 
Retail 
Retailers in the Third District generally reported slight year-t o-year decreases in sales for 
February.  Most store executives a ttributed slow sales in all lines of merchandise to a decline in 
consumer confidence.  Some also noted that sales of winter apparel were especially weak due to 
unseasonably mild weather. Retailers are limiting inventories in response to the slow pace of sales.  Store officials said they have revise d down their sales forecasts for 2008; they expect 
results for this year to show minimal improvement over last year , at best.  Several noted that 
expansion and renovation plans for this year have  been cancelled.  One chain store indicated that 
its corporate capital spending plans have been “drastically reduced” and another said it has implemented a “company-wi de belt tightening.”  
Auto dealers in the region generally reported slow sales in Februar y, with most indicating 
that sales were below the year-ago rate. Dealers in  the region expect sales to edge up later this 
year, but they do not expect sales for the year  as a whole to match last year’s sales. 
 
Finance 
Total outstanding loans at Third District banks  were rising slowly in February. Most of 
the commercial bank lending officers contacted for this report indicated that loan volume 
outstanding has been rising modestly for all ca tegories of credit; however, some noted that 
commercial and industrial lending has eased. Most  bank contacts indicated that asset quality 
overall continued to weaken somewhat.  All of th e banks contacted for this report noted that they 
were “tightening credit standard s across the board” and some indi cated that they had ceased 
III - 3 
lending to lower-rated borrowers completely. Bank ers reported that attracting deposits is “a 
struggle,” with strong competition among banks in the District.  Some said they have made 
increased use of purchased funds and Fede ral Home Loan Bank advances. Looking ahead, 
bankers generally foresee slow growth in overa ll lending. They expect earnings to be under 
pressure during the year as charge-offs increase, unless funding costs decline.  
 
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate acti vity in February remained significantly below the year-ago 
pace.  Residential real estate agents said buyers were deferrin g purchases in anticipation of 
further price declines, and sellers were deferri ng putting their homes on the market because they 
perceive demand to be weak. In ge neral, residential real estate ag ents said downward pressure on 
prices persists.  The forecast of one contact—tha t there will be “no appreciation for quite some 
time”—was representative of the consensus in the region.  Home builders also reported a very 
slow rate of sales, despite incr eased incentives.  Looking ahead, resi dential real estate agents and 
home builders believe there might be some “stab ilization” in the lower to mid-price range, but 
they expect demand for homes in higher price range s to remain weak, due in part to the reduction 
in financing for nonconforming mortgages. 
Commercial real estate firms reported that office vacancy rates in most markets in the 
region have continued to decline over the past several months, a nd rental rates have increased. 
However, they noted that office vacancy rates have risen in some markets where financial 
services firms have reduced or ceased occupanc y. Construction has eased in most office markets 
in the region. Industria l real estate firms reported that overall demand for industrial space 
remained firm, although increased supply has kept  rental rates in check. Looking ahead, most 
contacts in the commercial real es tate sector expect leasing activity  to be slower in 2008 than in 
2007, although they generally expect  rental rates to be about le vel through the year in most 
markets. 
 
Prices and Wages 
Reports of increases in input costs and output prices from Th ird District business contacts 
were somewhat less prevalent in February than they were in January, although there has been an 
increase in the number of businesses noting incr eased prices for imported goods.  Firms in the 
III - 4 
region noted increases in prices of  textiles, food products, chemicals,  industrial materials, metals, 
and machinery.  They also reported rising co sts for transportation and shipping and for 
electricity. Most of the firms reporting on employment costs in Fe bruary indicated that wage 
increases remained moderate.  Several firms not ed that they had instituted hiring freezes in 
response to slowing business activity and rising general operating costs. 
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Economic activity in the Fourth District ha s slowed somewhat since early January.  
Overall, factory output was flat though shipments by steel producers and service centers rose.  
Production at auto assembly plan ts increased.  The housing industry remains weak with little 
expectation of improvement in the near future .  Nonresidential builders reported business was 
steady to increasing.   Sales by District retailers weakened and fell below plan.  Bankers cited a 
pickup in business  lending while consumer loan demand was flat to declining.  Further, 
deterioration in credit quality and a small ri se in delinquencies were indicated.  Energy 
production was steady to increasing.   Truck freight volume slowed.  
Employment levels across the District were  largely unchanged, t hough workforce levels 
fell at a number of national banks and trucking companies.  Staffing firms reported a modest 
increase in the number of job openings while  the number of job seekers was unchanged.  
Demand was greatest in nursing and allied health  professions.  Apart from energy producers, 
little upward pressure on wages wa s noted.  Almost all manufactur ers cited increased costs for 
raw materials while homebuilders and nonresiden tial contractors noted rising metal prices.  
Manufacturing.  Overall, factory output has been flat  during the past six weeks.  Reports 
of increased production were genera lly attributed to seasonal adju stments.  On a year-over-year 
basis, reports showed output levels were the same to up slightly.  Outlook by manufacturers is 
best described as cautious.  In general, steel shipments were on the rise for both producers and 
steel service centers.  Expectations are for steel demand to remain at current levels or increase.  The strongest end markets for steel include en ergy, aerospace, and defens e.  District auto 
production increased in January.  Output by foreign nameplates in creased while their domestic 
counterparts held production leve ls steady.  In terms of year-over-year comparisons, auto 
production was down slightly.   
Reports on capacity utilization were mixed.  Capital spending remains on plan with most 
producers saying that spending in 2008 will be at or slightly above 2007 levels.  However, four 
of our contacts told us they plan to dram atically increase spendi ng on new buildings and 
equipment.  Almost all of our respondents re ported increasing prices for raw materials, 
especially metals.  Further, half of them told us that they have either raised prices or added surcharges since our last report.  However, only a few contacts said  they plan to raise prices in 
IV - 2  
the near future.  Most manufacturers also expect modest inflationary pres sures to continue.  On 
balance, there was little change in employment le vels and limited hiring is expected in the near 
future.  Minimal wage pressure was reported.   
Real Estate.   Residential contractors reported new home sales we re flat, albeit at low 
levels, during the past six weeks.  Year-over-y ear, sales activity was flat to down.  Looking 
forward, home builders had mixed opinions.  Half our contacts believe an upturn in the housing 
market will not occur for another 12-18 months wh ile others think market activity may begin to 
increase late in 2008.  Some of the latter group’s optimism is based on an across-the-board 
pickup in traffic during the past c ouple of months.  Inventories re main above desirable levels for 
most builders.  New home prices and material costs—outside of  metals—were largely 
unchanged.  A small decline in homebu ilding staffing levels was noted.   
Almost all commercial contra ctors reported that business ha s been steady to slightly 
increasing since our last report and on a year-ove r-year basis.  Current backlogs are at acceptable 
levels.  Expectations for 2008 suggest that build ing activity will equal th at seen in 2007.  We 
heard some reports that residential contractors are begi nning to move into the commercial sector, 
resulting in a more competitive bidding process.  With the excep tion of a rise in steel prices, 
material costs have been stable.  On net, work force levels remain largely unchanged; however, a 
few builders said they may add workers in the second half of 2008.  Little upward pressure on 
wages was reported.    
Consumer Spending.  Most District retailers reported a decline in January sales when 
compared to the previous month and on a year-over-year basis.  The only segments showing strength were foods and pharmaceuticals.  Expe ctations for the second quarter (2008) are for 
sales to remain flat or to increase slightly.  Auto dealers cited wea kness in new vehicle sales 
during the past six weeks, with little change anticipated in th e upcoming months.  For the most 
part, vendor prices were uncha nged.  Employment levels were  adjusted to meet seasonal 
demands or for staffing new stor es.  Capital expenditures met projections during the past few 
months; however, half of our  contacts told us that spending in 2008 would fall below 2007 
levels.   
IV - 3  
Banking.  Almost all bankers reported a pickup in business lending during the past six 
weeks.  Several contacts attri buted the rise to commercial real estate loans.  In contrast, 
consumer loan demand—including autos and ho me equity—was characterized as flat to 
declining.  The residential mortgage market re mains sluggish; however, most of our contacts 
experienced a boost in refinancing activity.  A majority of bankers told us that credit quality for 
business customers and consumers has deteriorate d.  Further, a small rise in delinquencies, 
especially  for all types of real es tate loans, was reported.   Net margins  were either stable or had 
narrowed a little with a few bankers expecting their margins to contract even further.  
Employment levels at community banks were  steady although a number of national banks 
reported significant employment reductions relate d to mortgage lending and cost controls.  
Several contacts expressed concer n about increased benefit costs,  especially for health care.  
Energy.  Oil, gas, and coal production has been st eady to increasing slig htly over the past 
six weeks.  Looking forward, over half of our energy contacts told us they expect demand to rise.  
However, tightening credit standards, regulator y issues, and price pressures were cited as 
impediments to increasing production.   Reports indicated the price received for coal went up 
while oil prices were steady to declining and ga s prices were stable to  increasing.  Equipment 
and material costs were stable while capital expenditures remained on plan.  Several of our 
respondents said that they plan  to increase capital spending du ring the next few months.  Net 
employment levels increased slightly and some additional hiring is expected.  Oil and gas producers reported upward pressure on wages. 
 
Transportation.  Trucking executives reported freight volume has declined somewhat 
over the past six weeks and they anticipate little change in the upcoming months.  Nevertheless, 
a few contacts believe a turnaround might occur in the second half of 2008.  Rising fuel prices 
continue to plague the industr y.  Cost recovery through surcharges is becoming increasingly 
difficult.  Some weakening in capital spendi ng was reported and only modest increases are 
expected, primarily in the second half of 2008.  Employment levels continue to decline as 
carriers are in the process of reducing cap acity.  No wage pre ssures were reported.  
V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview.  Business contacts suggested that the Fift h District economy lost some additional 
momentum in late January and early February.  Distri ct retailers reported that consumer spending continued 
to soften in recent weeks, while production activity at District factories slowed further.  In addition, 
commercial lending activity modera ted and demand for home mortgages remained weak, though contacts 
said increased refinancing activity provided somewhat of a boost.  Assessments of District real estate 
markets were also downbeat – home sales continued to  languish and commercial leasing activity cooled in 
several major markets.  Feedback from other sectors was more encouraging, however.  Tourist activity 
remained a bright spot and revenue growth at District  service providers firmed in February.  Port activity 
was mixed with increases in exports, but sharp declines in import volumes.  On the employment front, labor market conditions in the District deteriorated a bit since our last report.  Retailers and manufacturers cut 
jobs, services hiring was flat, and demand for temporary workers softened.  Price pressures were elevated 
in recent weeks behind faster growth in raw material and energy prices.  
 Retail.  Assessments of consumer spending were downb eat in recent weeks.  Department store 
contacts across the Fifth District told us that retail sales languished in late January through the first three 
weeks of February.  A spokesperson for several retaile rs operating in central Virginia said Presidents’ Day 
sales were a “non-event” and that Valentine’s Day revenues were well below thei r usual levels.  Apparel 
sales were also lackluster according to store managers  in Maryland and West Virginia.  In addition, a 
contact at a national discount retailer in North Caro lina commented that drought conditions in his region 
had damped demand for lawn and garden items.  Bi g-ticket categories also slumped, particularly 
automobile and light truck sales.  A contact at a dealer ship in West Virginia said, “it’s rough out here” and 
noted that he saw little to no customer traffic on hi s lot unless there was a “major” sale.  Despite soft 
activity, retail prices grew at a faster clip in recent weeks, while District merchants continued to trim 
payrolls. 
 Services.  Contacts at District services firms reported generally steady to slightly higher customer 
demand over the past six weeks.  An executive at an advertising firm in Richmond, Va., said revenues at 
his firm grew more quickly in recent weeks, as new bus inesses continued to locate to the region.  Similarly, 
representatives from several Virginia airports repor ted higher passenger volumes and increased revenues in 
late January and February.  Contacts at telecommunica tions and healthcare firms also reported a pickup in 
demand.  The pace of hiring at services firms was unchanged, while price gr owth edged higher.   
Manufacturing.  District manufacturers reported that producti on activity continued to cool in late 
January through the first three weeks of February as volumes of new orders and shipments dwindled 
further.  Contacts attributed the pullback to a number of factors:  a chemical producer in North Carolina 
V-2  
cited “general economic uncertainty” among his customers; a contact at a textile mill in South Carolina 
blamed weak retail sales; and a building supply manuf acturer in West Virginia noted ongoing softness in 
new home construction.  Contacts also continued to voice concerns over rising energy and transportation costs.  A textile producer in North Carolina told us that recent increases in raw material prices have been 
“very painful” and that his firm has “no ability to  pass them along to retailers” because domestic demand 
has been generally soft.  
 Ports.   Export activity at District ports intensified in recent weeks as overseas demand for U.S. 
goods continued to be driven by the lower dollar.  On  the flip side, port officials told us that import 
volumes from China continued to dwindle in late Janua ry and February.  Contacts attributed the slowdown 
to ongoing weakness in home construction activity and soft er retail sales, noting that furniture, apparel, and 
building material imports were down sharply. 
 Finance.  Residential lending activity picked up in recen t weeks as lower interest rates spurred a 
notable increase in refinancing activity.  A contact  in Greenville, S.C., said demand for mortgage 
refinancing at her firm was “twice what it was a mont h ago,” while a lender in Charlottesville, Va., told us 
he had been “really busy with refinances.”  Similarly,  a contact in Baltimore, Md., told us that February 
was on pace to be a “record-breaking month” in terms of refinancing activity.  On the other hand, lenders 
said that recent rate cuts had done little to boost dema nd for home mortgages as tighter credit standards and 
weak demand for homes overshadowed the rate decreases.  Several lenders said they had reduced loan-to-
value ratios and were requiring higher credit scores on new home mortgages.  Reports on commercial 
lending were more downbeat as loan demand slumped in recent weeks.  A contact in Charlotte, N.C., told 
us that weakness in residential lending had “finally started to spill over to the commercial side,” while a 
contact in Charleston, W.Va., told us there was “a lo t of reticence in the air” as clients were increasingly 
concerned about the health of the economy. 
 Real Estate.  Fifth District housing market conditions continued to weaken since our last report.  A 
Realtor in the Washington, D.C., area said his market  was still “pretty bad,” adding that January home sales 
were down 41 percent from a year earlier.  Similarly, an agent in Raleigh, N.C., told us she did not believe 
that conditions had “hit bottom just yet,” while a R ealtor in Greensboro, N.C., described his market as 
“slow” and reported seeing more builders “giving away houses.” There were a few “signs of life,” however.  
A contact in Charlotte, N.C., noted an uptick in buyer traffic in recent weeks, while an agent in Richmond, 
Va., reported an increase in inquiries as buyers sought to “take advantage of lower interest rates.”  In 
addition, sales activity inside the Washington, D.C., beltway was relatively solid.  Contacts said that home 
prices continued to soften in most markets and construction activity remained generally dormant.  
 Assessments of commercial real estate conditions were mixed in recent weeks.  Conditions were 
notably weaker along the I-95 corridor between Richm ond, Va., and Baltimore, Md., while reports from the 
V-3  
Carolinas were generally upbeat.  Contacts in the Wash ington, D.C., area said the pace of office leasing had 
“slowed to a crawl” in late January and February.  In addition, agents reported that some recently 
completed office buildings along northern Virginia’s Du lles corridor were not attracting tenants.  On the 
other hand, contacts in Columbia, S.C., and in Raleigh, N.C., described demand for office space as 
“steady.”  Office vacancies edged higher in Baltimore, Md., and in Washington, D.C., but were “fairly 
stable” in the Carolinas.  It was a similar story with re ntal rates.  Rents were mostly firm in the southern 
half of the District, while a contact in the northern Virginia suburbs reported downward pressure on office 
and retail rents, and said he was advising clients “to ta ke what they can get.”  Contacts reported little to no 
new construction activity, and agents in Richmond, Va., and in Washington, D.C., told us that several 
national retailers had recently decided to delay new projects in those markets.  
 Tourism.  Reports on tourist activity were generally  positive.  Along the coast, contacts on the 
Outer Banks of North Carolina and in Virginia Beach , Va., told us that bookings for the Presidents’ Day 
weekend were somewhat stronger than a year ago.  A contact in Myrtle Beach said tourism spending at area 
establishments was in line with last year.  Adding to the upbeat tone, a manager at a ski resort in Virginia reported that condominium sales remained strong, booki ngs were up and tourist spending was steady.  
Similarly, a contact at a West Virginia ski resort to ld us that sales of new homes at the resort were doing 
well and that bookings were on track for a record year. 
 Temporary Employment.  Fifth District temporary employment agents reported somewhat 
weaker demand for workers in late January through the first three weeks of February.  Contacts in 
Hagerstown, Md., and in Cary, N.C., told us that st affing requests had tapered off in recent weeks due to 
the “slowing economy.” Demand held up a bit better in  Richmond, Va., but an agent there said she was 
expecting hiring activity to drop off during the next  six months.  Administrative and computer skills 
remained among those most highly sought over the past six weeks. 
 Agriculture.  Reports from District farms were genera lly unchanged in recent weeks.  Severe 
drought conditions persisted in the Carolinas, despite recent, substantial rainfall in those areas, while 
pasture conditions continued to improve in Maryland and in Virginia.  Although the recent rains did not 
fully compensate for months of drought, contacts said the precipitation improved the condition of small grains across most of the District. 
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  On balance,  Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic 
activity was subdued in January and early Februa ry.  Retailers noted generally weak sales 
and uncomfortably high inventory levels, whil e auto sales were lower on a year-over-year 
basis for both domestic and foreign brands .  Tourism-related spending was generally 
positive overall, but contacts were somewhat less optimistic going forward.  Residential 
real estate activity remained quite wea k, although homebuilders commented that new 
home inventories were marginally lower.  A ccording to Realtors, inventories of existing 
homes for sale continued to increase.  Commercial real estate development was described as having slowed in January and Februa ry.  Manufacturing performance varied by 
industry, and domestic freight traffic remain ed generally sluggish.  Banking contacts 
continued to report stricter le nding standards for real estate  loans and increased mortgage 
delinquencies and foreclosures.  Contacts in  several industries noted continued strong 
demand for skilled workers.  However, fi rms in housing-related industries noted an 
increase in layoffs or reduced work weeks.  In addition, some temporary staffing industry 
contacts reported a decline in orders and an  increase in worker applications.  Contacts 
noted that rising food and energy prices, along with increases in health insurance premiums, were major concerns.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Most District merchants reported that retail 
sales were weak during January and early February, citing a moderate decline in sales compared with a year ago.  Several merchants reported that inventor ies were higher than 
expected, and were scaling back orders as  a consequence.  However, the outlook among 
retailers was generally positive with the majo rity expecting better sales over the next 
several months.  District vehicle sales remain ed sluggish early in the year.  Weak demand 
was reported by dealers of both domestic and import brands, a nd most contacts also noted 
they had cut back on vehicle orders from automakers.  
Tourism-related spending remained generally positive in January and early 
February.  However, one contact noted that  bookings for the spring season were down 
nearly 20 percent from year-ago levels, and so me reports indicated that business-related 
travel had slowed and was lagging year-ago le vels.  Also, several ho tel contacts expected 
VI-2 
lower occupancy rates and more conservative  spending by guests in the near-term as a 
result of higher food and energy costs. 
Real Estate.  Homebuilders and Realtors reporte d that new and existing home 
sales remained well below year-ago levels dur ing January and early February in most 
areas.  Residential construction activity re mained below year-ago levels across the 
District, but most homebuilder s noted that inventories were  gradually trending lower. 
However, many Realtors said th at the inventory of existing homes for sale continued to 
rise despite modest declines in asking prices.  The outlook from builders and Realtors 
over the next several months was somewhat less negative than in previous reports.  
Contacts noted that the traditionally str ong spring-selling season will be crucial in 
determining the year’s performance. 
Reports from District contractors indicated that co mmercial development during 
January and early February was flat to slight ly down on a year-over-year basis.  Most 
contacts indicated that they an ticipate a further decline in activity over the next several 
months. 
Manufacturing and Transportation.  Manufacturing reports varied by industry.  
Steel fabrication, energy, and defense-relate d industries reported strong conditions in 
early 2008.  However, firms providing input s into residential housing construction 
continued to report very weak conditions , and many had cut work weeks or pared 
payrolls as a result.  Some auto industry contacts said they were adjusting output levels 
lower to match sluggish vehicle demand.  Manufacturing contacts from most sectors 
expressed caution with regard to futu re capital spending and hiring plans. 
The lower value of the dollar was said to be supporting exports by District 
manufacturers, and was also boosting foreign industrial inve stment in the District.  
However, freight companies continued to re port lackluster dome stic demand.  Several 
regional trucking companies cut ba ck operations as a result.  
Banking and Finance.  Contacts in the banking industr y reported relatively tight 
credit conditions across the Dist rict, especially for real esta te loans.  Concern about the 
credit availability was also noted by some non -real estate related businesses.  Mortgage 
delinquencies and foreclosures were higher in  many parts of the District.  However, 
several contacts noted that bo rrowers had become more pro active in working with banks 
VI-3 
on immediate and anticipated credit problem s.  Loan demand varied across the region, 
with some contacts reporting increased mortgage refinanci ng activity in late January.  
Employment and Prices.  Demand for skilled workers remained strong in several 
industries, including health care, business a nd technical services, as well as in the 
defense- and aerospace-related sectors.  However, several firms linked to residential 
construction and sales reported reduced hours and increased layoffs.  Some automakers 
noted that they eliminated overtime because  of production cutbacks.  There were also 
reports from some temporary staffing firms th at the volume of job orders had weakened 
and the number of people applying for temporary positions had increased.  Contacts in 
the hotel/resort industry reported that for the fi rst time in several year s they were able to 
easily fill vacant positions.  
Food, petrochemical, and energy-related cost s continued to escalate, according to 
most reports.  Increased energy and raw mate rial costs were noted by most manufacturing 
contacts, but their ability to pass on the highe r costs varied.  Some specialty-food industry 
contacts said that recent pr ice increases led some custom ers to switch to lower price 
brands.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources.  District farm areas received needed 
rainfall in January and early February. Howe ver, drought conditions persisted in parts of 
Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, and Southwes t Florida. Range pasture conditions across 
the District remained poor. 
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO 
Summary . Economic activity in the Seventh District co ntinued to expand at a slow pace in 
January and February.  Consumer spending slowed, but busin ess spending plans were mostly 
unchanged.  On balance, labor ma rket conditions were stable, t hough they varied by industry and 
location .  Residential construction continue d to decline, while growth in  nonresidential construction 
showed further signs of slowing.   On balance, manufacturing conti nued to expand modestly, with 
strong gains in export-oriented and metals-related  businesses but weakness  among firms with close 
ties to the housing market.  Credit standards tightened further, but business lending remained strong.  
Pressures from rising material costs increased from the previous  period, while wage pressures 
remained low.   Soybean and corn prices rose further, and heavy snow cover could lead to difficult 
planting conditions in the spring.   
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending in the District slowed in January and February.  
Retail sales were adversely impacted by weathe r conditions, higher ener gy prices, and slower 
income growth.   Sales at discount stores and wholesale outlets performed well, while spending on 
luxury and other discretionary items slowed .  Retailers maintained lower inventory levels and 
placed fewer advance orders in anticipation of softer sales in the coming months.  Auto dealers in 
the District reported sluggish sales, though some noted increases in showroom traffic volumes and 
used car sales in February.  Activity in service departments was higher as consumers were looking 
to delay purchases, and dealers’ inventory levels were at normal seasonal levels.  Tourism activity 
was stable in February, with one  contact noting a slight  reduction in traffi c due to the weather.    
Business spending. The pace of business spending was little changed from the previous 
reporting period.  A commercial real  estate firm reported that desp ite current credit conditions they 
were proceeding with capital spe nding projects.  In addition, a cont act in the domestic  steel industry 
noted that his firm was investing heavily in  capacity as the strengt h of demand was pushing 
production to capacity constraints.  Overall, employment conditions in the District were stable; most 
of the declines that were reported reflected t ypical seasonal movements.  Staffing firms reported 
stability in billable hours and an increase in job advertising activity.   The demand for skilled and 
professional workers remained strong, while the manufacturing and co nstruction industries 
continued to show weakness.  A contact noted that the seasonal decline in constr uction employment 
may last longer than usual given the declines in  residential co nstruction, and that previously 
announced layoffs in the automotive industry had yet to take full effect.  
 
 VII-2
Construction/real estate . Residential construction in the District declined in January and 
February.  Contacts continued to report falling demand and tightening credit availability.  In terms of 
sales, contacts noted that inquiries were up in Fe bruary, particularly in the market for low and mid-
tier value homes and among first-time home buyers.  However, only a small portion of this increase 
was matriculating into sales.  Construction of sp ec homes declined and cancellations and delays of 
residential constructi on projects increased.   Residential rents stabilized  as vacancy rates moved 
lower, although excess inventory continued to be  reported in some areas of the District.  
Nonresidential development and construction in the District also showed si gns of slowing from the 
previous reporting period, with  the retail sector accounti ng for much of this decline.   However, 
infrastructure development remained strong.  Fina ncing difficulties were also reported in the 
nonresidential market.  A contact noted that financed projects were proceeding forward, but projects with pending financing were being delayed or cancelled.  
   
Manufacturing . Manufacturing growth was stable comp ared with the previous reporting 
period.  Demand for heavy equipment such as aircraft, cranes, and energy extraction and mining 
equipment continued to be robust.   Manufacturers in several industries again reported strength in the 
demand for exports.  Domestic steel production continued to  move ahead, aided by advantageous 
terms of trade.  A contact reported that the domestic steel industry was opera ting very close to full 
capacity and that steel shortages were becomi ng likely. Demand continued to be soft for 
manufacturers with close ties to residential housing such as household appliances and fixtures, 
though one producer of upscale fixtur es reported that sales were  up slightly in February.  
Automakers reported soft light vehi cle sales in late January and early  February, but that these sales 
were in line with expectations.  Contacts in the auto industry al so expressed concern about how the 
current credit situation would affect margins going forward with customers becoming more price 
sensitive, funding for auto loans becoming more difficult, and the possibility that the credit quality of customers would decline.  
Banking/finance . Credit market conditions deterior ated in February from January.   
Consumer loan demand declined as lending standa rds tightened.  Consumer  loan quality in the 
District moved incrementally lower.   Mortgage originations were dow n as were home equity loans 
and lines of credit for all but the lowest-risk borrow ers.  Refinancing activity  increased substantially 
in late January, but began to slow in February.  Contacts reported that the increase in refinancing 
was concentrated among conforming and fixed-rate loans to prime borrowers; other borrowers still 
faced difficulties in refinancing.   Business loan demand remained strong despite tighter credit 
 
 VII-3
standards.   Commercial and industrial loans were up, but general uncertainty surrounding the 
residential and commercial real estate markets was s een as limiting the availability of credit to those 
markets.  Despite rising standard s and higher spreads in the commerc ial real estate market, several 
contacts expressed the opinion that growth opport unities remained, especially in infrastructure 
development, and that nontraditional lenders were entering selectively into the market. 
Prices/costs . Costs rose for a variety of inputs from the previous reporting period.   In 
manufacturing,  there were reports of increases in materials prices for metals, cement, and energy-
related products as well as transportation costs such as ocean freight.   A construction contact 
reported that shortages of steel we re driving up the cost of raw mate rials like nails, staples, and 
screws.  Contacts outside of the construction and retail i ndustries generally reported that they were 
passing on these cost increases to their customers.   Wage pressures remained limited outside of the 
skilled manufacturing trades and sales positions that continue to experience shortages of available 
labor.   However, a construction contact cited previously  negotiated union wage increases as a factor 
holding up costs.  In addition, a staffing firm repo rted that their small to  mid-size clients were 
willing to accept higher prices in exchange for greater flexibility in the duration of employment 
contracts.   Several manufacturers and a staffing firm noted that healthcare costs were rising. 
Agriculture . Key agricultural commodity prices rose  again in January and February. In 
nominal terms, soybean prices se t new daily records, and corn pr ices approached record levels. 
District farmers expected heavy snow cover to create wet and somewhat difficult planting 
conditions this spring.  Increases in  corn-specific input costs, partic ularly fertilizers, continued to 
move planting intentions towards soybeans and away from corn. Higher feed costs lowered the net 
income of livestock, dairy, and poultry operations. A contact noted that the slaughter of sows and 
cows increased, leading to delays in deliveries to packing plants. Hog prices were higher, and cattle 
prices were about the same as th e previous reporting period; milk prices moved lower but remained 
well above the prices of a year ago. Farm tractor and combine orders were reported to extend into 2009, with 2008 production runs already sold out. Cont acts also reported that farmland values were 
bid higher during the period, mostly reflecting de mand by farmers as opposed to residential or 
commercial developers and other investors
. 
 
 
 
 
 VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
The pace of economic activity in the Eighth District has slowed since our previous report.  
Contacts noted, in contrast with the recent trends, increases in manufacturing activity and signs of 
softening in the services sector.  Retail and auto sales declined in January and early February over year-
ago levels.  Home sales and residential constructi on continued to weaken throughout the District, but 
commercial real estate market conditions remained generally positive.  Overall lending activity at a 
sample of District banks declined modera tely during the fourth quarter of 2007. 
Consumer Spending 
Contacts reported that retail sales in January and early February were down, on average, over 
year-earlier levels.  About 61 percent of the re tailers saw decreases in sales, while 22 percent saw 
increases.  One-third of the retailers reported that sales met their expectations, 62 percent reported that 
sales were below expectations, and 5 percent reported that sales were above expect ations.  Outer wear and 
food/essentials were strong sellers, while gift items and large-ticket items were moving more slowly.  
About 43 percent of the contacts noted that inventori es were at desired levels, while 48 percent reported 
higher-than-desired inventories and 9 percent reported lower-than-desire d inventories.  About 44 percent 
of respondents expect that sales in March and Apr il will increase over 2007 levels, and another 2 percent 
expect unchanged sales; but 44 percent expect decreased sales. 
Car dealers in the District reported that, compar ed with last year, sales in January and early 
February were down, on average.  Two-thirds of the car dealers surveyed reported a decrease in sales, 
while 17 percent reported an increase.  About 58 percen t of the car dealers noted that used car sales had 
increased relative to new car sales and 21 percent repor ted an increase in low-end vehicle sales relative to 
high-end vehicle sales.  One-third of the responde nts reported recent increases in rebates and incentives 
and about 46 percent reported more rej ections of finance applications.  About 43 percent of the car dealers 
surveyed reported that their inventories were t oo high (mostly on new cars and trucks), while the 
 VIII-2 
remaining contacts reported that their inventories were at desired levels.  Half of the car dealers expect 
increased sales over 2007 levels for March and April, and another 17 percent expect unchanged sales; but 
33 percent expect decreased sales. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity has increased since our pr evious survey.  However, contacts expressed 
concern about the effects of the housing sector slow down on future manufacturing growth.  Firms in the 
chemical, food, household appliance, motor vehicle parts, and oil and gas field machinery equipment 
manufacturing industries reported plans to open new facilities and hire workers in the District, with significant employment gains in the household appliance and motor vehicle parts industries.  Contacts in the electrical equipment manufacturing industry reported plans to expand existing facilities and 
operations.  In contrast, contacts in the nonmetallic mineral product, plastics pr oduct, and transportation 
equipment manufacturing industries reported plans to lay off workers and decrease operations.  A firm in 
machinery manufacturing announced that it will close a pl ant and lay off workers.  Contacts in fabricated 
metal product manufacturing reported mixed conditions. 
The District's services sector has shown signs of so ftening since our previous report.  Contacts in 
the heath care and educational services industries reporte d plans to lay off workers.  A retail services firm 
reported plans to close a facility and lay off workers. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales continued to decline throughout the Eighth District.  January 2008 home sales were 
down 22 percent in Memphis, 12 percent in St. Loui s, and 20 percent in Louisville compared with 
January 2007.  Residential construction also conti nued to decline throughout the District.  December 2007 
year-to-date single-family housing permits fell in nearly all District metro areas compared with the same period in 2006.  Permits declined 33 percent in Memphis, 19 percent in St. Louis, 23 percent in Little Rock, and 7 percent in Louisville. 
 VIII-3 
Commercial real estate market conditions were generally positive throughout the District.  The 
fourth quarter 2007 industrial vacancy rates in Mem phis, Louisville, and Little Rock declined over the 
third quarter of 2007, while the industrial vacancy rate in St. Louis was unchanged.  During the same 
period, both downtown and suburban office vacancy rat es declined in St. Louis, Louisville, and Little 
Rock.  In Memphis, downtown office vacancy ra tes increased while suburban office vacancy rates 
declined.  Contacts in Louisville reported a cautious ou tlook for the industrial market in the first quarter 
of 2008, while contacts in west Tennessee reported that  commercial real estate is holding up fairly well 
and should be relatively stable in 2008. 
Banking and Finance 
A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of District banks showed a moderate decrease in 
overall lending activity during the fourth quarter of  2007.  During this period, credit standards for 
commercial and industrial loans ra nged from unchanged to somewhat tightened, while demand for these 
loans ranged from unchanged to moderately weaker.  Credit standards for commercial real estate loans 
were tightened, while demand for these loans was mode rately weaker.  Meanwhile, credit standards for 
consumer loans were basically unchanged, while demand ranged from about the same to moderately 
weaker.  Credit standards for residential mortgage  loans were tightened, while demand for these loans 
ranged from about the same to moderately weaker. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
The total value of all field crops in the District states rose by 36 percent from 2006 to 2007.  
Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Mississippi, and Missouri farmers saw increases of at least 30 percent, while 
Kentucky farmers saw no change.  In contrast, the total crop value in Tennessee declined by 14 percent 
over the same period.  Value gains reflected mos tly increased prices for all major District crops, 
especially corn, soybeans, winter wheat, and sorghum  (for which prices rose by at least 30 percent), 
whereas total production increased only for corn and sorghum. 
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy appears to have contracted slightly since the last report. 
Decreased activity was noted in residential construction and real estate, and consumer 
spending softened. Mixed activity was noted in services, manufacturing and commercial real 
estate, while commercial construction was flat. Growth was noted in tourism, energy, mining 
and agriculture. Overall, labor markets loos ened, while wage increases were moderate. 
Significant price increases were noted fo r steel, plastics, fertilizer and energy. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending softened. A major Minneap olis-based retailer reported that same-
store sales in January were down 1 percent comp ared with a year earlier. A manager at a 
Minneapolis area mall reported that traffic dur ing January and early February was slower 
than a year earlier, but sales were steady. January traffic was down slightly and sales 
were about even at a South Dakota mall; early February was flat. Meanwhile, a number 
of national retail chains have recently moved into southwestern Montana. 
Recent Minnesota vehicle sales were slow, and some dealerships have gone out of 
business over the past year, according to a representative of an auto dealers association. Overall, recent auto sales in Montana were  down slightly, though a bank director there 
noted that area auto dealersh ips with access to at least one domestic and one foreign 
brand had solid sales.  
 Tourism activity increased from last y ear. Snowmobiling and cross country skiing 
activity was strong in northwestern Wisconsin, according to a tourism official. Lift ticket 
sales were higher than a year ago, while l odging was down slightly at a Minnesota ski 
resort; a representative of the resort was optimistic for the rest of the season. A Montana 
ski resort reported increases in  revenue compared with a year ago. Tourism officials in 
South Dakota expect an increase in visito r spending during 2008, even if the national 
economy slows.  
Services 
Reports from the service sector were mixed. A Minnesota architectural  firm reported some 
softening in business for larger projects. An executive search firm in Minnesota indicated 
that searches were down for construction a nd finance firms, while strong demand exists 
for the logistics and manufacturing areas. A Montana bank direct or noted increased 
IX-2 
activity for medical, dental and law firms. Contacts from the medical services sector 
reported continued strength. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction was flat. Progr ess on an office building in suburban 
Minneapolis was halted due to uncertainty about dema nd. However, a number of 
expansions were under way at medical facili ties in Minneapolis-St. Paul. Development 
began on a hospital research complex in Sioux Falls, S.D., that will eventually reach 2.5 
million square feet. Residential construction was down. January new home permits fell 
59 percent in the Minneapolis -St. Paul area from a y ear earlier and also dropped 
dramatically in Sioux Falls and Fargo, N.D. A bank dire ctor reported residential 
construction slowed sligh tly in Billings, Mont. 
 Commercial real es tate was mixed; the medical sect or grew, office and industrial 
were flat and retail was down. Recent office va cancy in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area 
was about the same as a year earlier, while industrial absorption fell and retail vacancy increased. In Sioux Falls, January commercial vacancy was about the same as a year ago. 
In contrast, Fargo saw declines in office and industrial vacancy, with increases in retail 
vacancy. Meanwhile, the market for homes c ontinued its downward trend. The median 
sale price of homes in the Minneapolis-St. Pa ul area fell almost 9 pe rcent in January from 
a year earlier, and closed sa les were down 21 percent. In c ontrast, the housing markets in 
Fargo and Bismarck, N.D., saw strong sales.  
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing activity was mixed since the last report. A January survey of purchasing 
managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated decreased activity in Minnesota 
and strong manufacturing activity in the Dakotas. Several wood product manufacturers 
closed or reduced production recently due to  weak demand. In Minnesota, a pharmaceutical 
manufacturer recently announced plans to close a plant. In No rth Dakota, a new agricultural 
processing facility is planned and a tractor manufacturer is expanding capacity. A new pipe-
making plant is planned in Montana to support the oil and gas industry. 
Energy and Mining 
Activity in the energy and mining sectors incr eased since the last report. Robust oil and 
gas exploration and production continued in the District. Additional power transmission 
lines are being built to handl e increased wind energy production. Most mines remained 
IX-3 
operating at near capacity, and some expans ions were under way. C ontinued exploration 
and permitting activity was in progress in a number of areas in the District.  
Agriculture 
Robust agricultural conditions were reported acr oss the District. The U.S. Department of 
Agriculture reported strong increases in the value of agricultural production in 2007.  
Preliminary results of the Minneap olis Fed’s fourth quarter (Ja nuary) survey of agricultural 
credit conditions indicated that  lenders expect overall agricu ltural income and spending to 
be up in the first quarter of 2008 due to highe r selling prices, but are cautious about higher 
input costs for fertilizer and fu el affecting this year’s spri ng planting. The price of farmland 
in the District continued to increase. 
Employment, Wages and Prices 
Overall, labor markets have loosened. Yea r-over-year employment levels in Minnesota 
were down in December. In addition, a recent announcement of an operations 
consolidation by a major department store will affect 950 jobs in Minnesota. A food 
processing facility in North Dakota will cl ose, eliminating 125 jobs, and a financial 
services company in Montana will cut 80 pos itions. After Montana’s unemployment rate 
dipped to 2 percent in March 2007, the rate  increased to 3.6 percent in December. 
Nevertheless, labor markets continued to be relatively tight in a number of areas in the 
Dakotas and Montana. Bank directors noted that finding qualified workers remains a 
challenge for employers in the western part of the District. 
Overall wage increases were moderate. Th e Minneapolis teachers union agreed to 
a two-year contract that provi des a 2 percent wage increase and a slight increase in health 
insurance coverage. However, a union c ontract with workers at a South Dakota 
manufacturer negotiated an 8 percent incr ease in wages during 2008, followed by raises 
of just over 3 percent during th e next three years. In addi tion, some low-skilled workers 
in southeastern South Dakota were receivi ng pay raises in excess of 8 percent. 
Significant price increases were noted fo r steel, plastics, fertilizer and energy. 
District manufacturers reported in creased prices for steel and plastics during the past two 
months, while farmers and ranchers noted high prices for fertilizer and fuel. While 
Minnesota gasoline prices in mid-February decr eased slightly since the last report, they 
were 69 cents per gallon higher than a year ago.  
 
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
 
Growth in the Tenth District economy slowed to a very modest pace in late January and 
February.  Consumer spending was flat, and manuf acturing activity was sluggish.  Residential real 
estate activity remained weak but stable, while commercial real estate activity eased somewhat.  
The energy sector continued to post solid gains, however, and agricultural investment continued to rise.  Labor markets also expanded modestly.  Most firms indicated few wage pressures, but overall price pressures increased, driven by rising commodity input costs.   
Consumer Spending.   Consumer spending was largely unchanged from the previous survey 
period.  Non-auto retail sales were flat overall, with most contacts reporting slower activity than expected.  Some of the softness was attributed to colder-than-normal weather, but many retailers blamed less foot traffic on negative media reports about the economy.  Sales of housing-related items remained especially weak, while restaurant sales and sales of cold weather items were solid.  Managers generally expected continued sluggish retail sales in the months ahead, and many stores were being cautious with inventories due to slower sales and less cash flow.  Auto dealers reported reduced sales and an uptick in inventories, which many attributed to fewer potential buyers being able to qualify for credit due to tightened lending standards.  Sales of trucks and SUVs remained weak, and dealers reported a shift from new, more expensive cars to pre-owned, lower-priced vehicles.  Travel and tourism activity was generally positive, with solid business travel offsetting some softness in leisure travel.  Most contacts con tinued to expect strong travel and tourism activity 
in coming months, driven in part by expected increases in international travel to the Rocky Mountains. 
Manufacturing.   Manufacturing activity was sluggish in late January and February, but 
expectations for future factory activity remained solid.  Plant managers reported some weakness in production and shipments, particularly among producers of food and chemicals.  Still, new orders continued to increase moderately, driven in part by export orders, and capital spending plans remained solid.  The majority of producers also indicated steady hiring plans for 2008 as a whole.  
 
 X-2  
However, some contacts put near-term hiring and capital spending plans on hold, given economic 
uncertainty.  
Real Estate and Construction.   Residential real estate activity remained weak, while 
commercial real estate activity slowed somewhat.  Home sales were slow but stable, with sales of lower-priced homes greatly outpacing sales of higher-priced homes.  Several real estate agents reported a decline in the number of qualified buyers due to tightened credit conditions.  Still, agents were generally optimistic about sales in the months ahead.  Builders reported that speculative construction remained at very low levels, help ing to keep unsold home inventories from rising 
further.  However, most housing contacts did not  expect home inventories to decline to normal 
levels until 2009.  Home prices continued to edge down in many areas, but some stabilization was expected in the near-term and several energy and agriculture-dependent areas continued to see home price increases.  Commercial real estate activity edged down from the previous survey period, as construction and absorption slowed from solid levels.  However, vacancy rates remained relatively stable and prices and rents were largely unchanged.  Several developers reported hesitancy in beginning new projects, and many noted  stricter underwriting standards for investment 
loans. 
Banking.   Bankers reported weaker loan demand, tighter credit standards, and a worsened 
outlook for loan quality since the last survey.  Demand fell for all major categories of loans, but especially commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans.  About half of the respondents reported a tightening of credit standards for commercial real estate loans, a higher proportion than in the previous survey.  There were also some reports of tightened standards for commercial and industrial loans, consumer installment loans, agricultural loans, and residential real estate loans.  Most respondents who tightened credit standards attributed the change to a weakening in the economic outlook.  A substantial number of banks reported that overall loan quality was down from a year ago, and loan quality was expected to decline somewhat further.  Bank deposits fell moderately, led by declines in demand deposit accounts. 
 
 X-3  
Energy.  Energy activity continued to expand at a solid pace in late January and February.  
Most contacts reported steady or increased drilling activity, and producers’ expectations for future 
exploration rose from the last survey period.  Several firms reported that shortages of labor 
continued to constrain drilling activity, but other companies said investments in newer drilling technologies has made recruiting and retaining workers less of an issue.  Capital spending plans continued to be strong, and credit conditions were still reported as positive in the industry, with most contacts citing strong cash flow s and ample financing opportunities. 
Agriculture.  Agricultural conditions remained favorable in late January and February.  The 
winter wheat crop was in good condition, with abundant snow cover and heavy mountain snowfall improving prospects for spring stream flows.  Record  high crop prices quickly translated into robust 
farm capital spending and record farmland value gains.  However, production costs for both livestock and crop producers rose further.  Rising margin calls on commodities futures contracts and large inventories of crop inputs also strained cash reserves at grain elevators.   
Wages and Prices.  Price pressures increased overall, although soft labor market growth 
limited wage pressures.  Manufacturing and construction contacts reported an upsurge in raw materials prices, especially for steel, copper, and any materials with high transportation costs.  Factory finished goods prices also escalated from the previous survey and were expected to rise further.  Restaurants reported a substantial rise in food prices, particularly for wheat flour-based products, and several planned to raise menu prices in the near future.  However, overall retail selling prices were largely unchanged and expected to remain stable.  District hiring announcements continued to outpace layoff announcements but by a smaller margin than in recent surveys.  Several sizable additions to employment were reported in the energy and engineering industries, while some layoffs were announced in the financial and food manufacturing sectors.  A number of firms continued to report difficulties hiring skilled workers, such as maintenance technicians, as well as some entry-level workers, particularly housekeepers and sales positions.  But wage pressures remained largely contained.   
 XI-1
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS 
 
The Eleventh District economy continued to soften  from January to late-February. Reports were 
uneven but suggested moderate economic growth. Contact s expressed a great deal of uncertainty about the 
outlook for growth, and some said they are preparing for the possibility of an economic downturn.  
Energy activity remained high, but the level of activity has flattened out. There was a pickup in 
service sector activity, but manufacturing continued to soften, and retail sales were weak. Construction 
activity slowed further. Financial service firms said le nding had softened. Dry weather hampered agricultural 
conditions. 
Prices.  Costs are rising for most industries, particular ly for metals, shipping and energy. Some firms 
said they’ve been able to pass higher costs onto cu stomers, but many said competitive pressures have 
restrained selling price increases and profit margins. 
Strong global demand pushed up oil and natural gas prices. Gasoline prices began a sharp seasonal 
rise as the driving season approaches. Higher fuel costs have pushed up shipping fees, and one contact said a 
new fuel surcharge has been added for overseas cargo.  
Agricultural prices have also risen. Cotton prices are up, while wheat, corn and sorghum are near 
record levels. Food manufacturers said concerns about high electricity costs are dwarfed by escalating prices 
for flour, shortening, corn, soybean meal and dairy pr oducts. Contacts say they see no sign of upward price 
pressures abating.  
Building costs have risen for nonresidential construction. Metal prices are up, including for 
aluminum, copper and steel. Prices have fallen for lumber and other products used in residential construction.  
Labor Market. A number of firms reported that they have  reduced employment and/or frozen hiring 
to keep operations lean in preparation for the possibilit y of slower activity. Still, there are firms reporting that 
activity is being restrained by labor shortages, partic ularly for skilled workers, such as certified mechanics, 
engineers and those who support the energy industry.  
 XI-2
Upward wage pressures have eased in some industr ies but continue to be reported in others. 
Temporary service firms said pay rates have been pushed up because of shortages of white collar and 
executive talent. Shipping firms said the shortage of talent has pushed wages up by 5 percent.  
Manufacturing . Factory production continued to soften. Demand for paper has been seasonally 
slow, and some producers fear that sales have been more sluggish that the typical seasonal slowdown. High-
tech manufacturing activity has weakened, and firm s said customers are reducing capital spending and 
inventories in anticipation of a possible downturn. Production of automobiles has weakened, but orders 
remained solid for manufacturers of boats, barges and aerospace components. Food producers said demand 
has not increased, which they attributed to high prices. 
Demand remained weak for materials to supply residential construction, such as lumber, metals, 
brick and glass. Contacts at these factories were pessimistic, and said business is tough and competitive. Sales of products for nonresidential construction are still strong but no longer off setting slowing residential 
sales, and there is caution that activity will slow. 
Refiners cut production in the face of weak margins and high gasoline inventories. Utilization rates 
dropped sharply from 89 to 85 percent—twice the norm al seasonal drop. Domestic demand for polyvinyl 
chloride remained weak, particularly for residential construction, although sales remained fairly strong for 
commercial and public construction. Polypropylene producers have reduced production to maintain prices in 
the face of weak demand. Base chemicals and plastics continue to pull back from the massive exports that 
occurred last fall.  
 Retail Sales.  Retail sales were weak in January but im proved some in February. Companies with 
national stores said Texas sales have recently decelerated faster in the state than in the nation but still remain 
stronger than in the rest of the country. Auto sales picked  up since the last report, which dealers attributed to 
increased advertising and incentives.  
Services. Temporary service firms reported an unexpected pickup in demand for direct hires. Orders 
were strongest for professional and technical workers in IT, engineering and oil-related services. Demand 
remained solid for workers to supply healthcare. There was an increase in orders from the financial services 
 XI-3
industry, with demand coming for mortgage refina ncing and credit collections. Orders to supply 
manufacturing were sluggish. 
Shipping activity was unchanged on balance. Declines  in the value of the dollar have stimulated 
exports, according to contacts, but the increase has not been enough to offset the decline in imports. Railroad 
activity remained strong, stimulated by shipments of chemicals and products to support nonresidential 
construction. Rail transport continued to decline for pr oducts to supply residential construction, and there 
was a slight decline in volumes for petroleum produc ts. Airlines reported an increase in traffic and say 
bookings are holding up. 
Construction and Real Estate.  Housing markets remained weak. Existing home sales were slower 
than a year ago. New home sales have been lackluster . Cancellation rates have risen, and contacts are 
concerned that rising foreclosures will add to elevated home inventories. Builders noted that downward pressure on prices has led to tremendous incentives on fi nished speculative inventory. Industry contacts have 
become more pessimistic and now do not expect impr ovement until 2010. Apartm ent markets continued to 
improve with strong demand and rising rental rates.  
Commercial construction remained active, but de mand for office and retail space had decelerated. 
The pace of investment in new nonresidential projects has slowed.  
Financial Services. Financial service contacts have become  much more cautious. Reductions in the 
federal funds rate have squeezed net interest margins at numerous small-to-midsize financial institutions 
where asset returns have declined more than the cost of funds. There is aggressive competition for deposits 
and good quality deals. Smaller ins titutions say it is tough to compete against aggressive loan repricing by 
larger financial intermediaries. 
Lending has softened, especially for automobile, mo rtgage and commercial real estate loans. Credit 
standards for commercial loans have tightened. Cred it quality is sound, say financial service contacts. 
Energy.  U.S. and Texas drilling has been flat, leavin g activity outside North America to be the 
driver for sales and revenue growth. New environmental regulations have raised costs and cut the level of 
activity in southern New Mexico. Drilling continued to dec line in the Gulf of Mexico, as rigs leave for higher 
 XI-4
profits elsewhere. Day-rates for land rigs, pipe and ot her durables remain flat, while prices for drilling and 
evaluation services have flattened more recently. The en trance of new oil service and machinery firms has 
helped ease pricing in many areas, such as pressure pumping. 
Agriculture.  High prices and a large 2007 crop has boosted farm income and spurred investment in 
farm equipment. Recent dry weather has caused poor past ure conditions and led to concerns that wheat and 
oat crop yields could be below average. Still, livest ock are in good condition, and contacts say rain can 
improve crop yield projections. 
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Economic activity in the Twelfth District a ppears to have grown modestly during the 
survey period of early January through late February.  Upward price pressures remained strong 
for food and energy but were limited for other produc ts, and scattered reports pointed to slight 
easing in upward pressures on la bor costs.  Contacts reported weak sales of retail goods and 
slower demand growth for various categories of  services.  Manufacturing activity was mixed 
across sectors but appears to have expanded slig htly on net, while agri cultural producers saw 
continued solid growth in sales.  Demand for residential real esta te remained exceptionally weak, 
and demand for commercial real estate eased a bit further.  Banking contacts  reported that loan 
demand was little changed, while cred it standards tightened further. 
Wages and Prices 
 Price inflation was modest overall, although food prices c ontinued on their upward march 
and energy prices remained highly elevated.  Prices were largely stable to down for a variety of 
retail products, and they fell further for selected building materi als, especially wood products.  
However, upward price pressures remained strong for various food products and energy-
intensive items such as transportation services.  Contacts also noted recent increases in the costs 
of raw materials used fo r clothing manufacturing. 
 Wage increases were moderate on net, with numerical reports genera lly in the range of 2 
to 4 percent on an annual basis.  Contacts provided scattered repor ts of reductions in upward 
wage pressures for sectors in which labor demand has eased of late, such as construction, retail, 
and finance.  However, selected categories of sk illed technical labor rema ined in short supply in 
some areas, and workers in these categories continued to receive large wage increases.   
XII - 2 
Retail Trade and Services  
 Retail sales softened further in the wake of  a weak holiday season.  Sales were slow at 
department stores and a variety of smaller retail chains, causing inventorie s to rise above desired 
levels; expectations of continued sluggish sales in to the spring have prompted retailers to scale 
back merchandise orders and reduce staff in some cases.  Demand fell further for household 
items such as furniture and appliances, although th e drop reportedly was not as pronounced as it 
had been in previous survey periods.  Sales of new automobiles were very weak for domestic and 
imported makes alike, with double-digit declines re ported relative to year-earlier levels in some 
areas.  Due to slow sales in recent months, so me retailers have put se lected capital spending 
projects on hold or reduced thei r capital spending plans for 2008. 
 Conditions weakened slightly for service provi ders.  Utilization of health-care services 
continued to grow but at a slow er pace than in prior months.  Activity remained very low for 
providers of real estate services  such as title insurance, and w eakness in the real estate sector 
reportedly has held down demand for legal services  in some areas.  Travel and tourism activity 
fell a bit further from earlier high levels in Ha waii; however, tourist act ivity remained largely 
stable in the coastal areas of California, due in part to con tinued growth in foreign tourism 
spurred by the lower exchange value of the U.S. dollar. 
Manufacturing 
 Manufacturing activity varied by sector but appears to ha ve expanded slightly on net 
during the survey period of early January thr ough late February.  Pr oduction activity and new 
orders grew further for makers of commercial ai rcraft and aerospace products used for national 
defense purposes.  Semiconductor manufacturers reported continued moderate growth in sales 
accompanied by balanced inventories and high rate s of capacity utilization.  Food manufacturers 
XII - 3 
saw double-digit sales gains relative to a year earlier.  By contrast , apparel makers reported that 
sales and new orders were below expectations.  Reports from various sect ors indicated a cautious 
attitude towards new investments, with capital  spending in 2008 likely to be flat to down 
compared with 2007. 
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand for agricultural products  continued to expand.  Contact s reported solid growth in 
domestic and overseas sales for a variety of  crops, although demand reportedly weakened 
recently for selected crops such as pecans.  Inpu t prices and availability were characterized as 
largely stable, although some farmer s have been struggling with cost pressures due to high prices 
for fertilizers and other petroleum-based inputs. 
Real Estate and Construction 
 
 Activity in residential real estate markets stayed stuck at very low levels during the 
survey period, while demand for no nresidential real estate eased a bit further.  Demand for new 
and existing homes was little changed from the depths reached in recent survey periods, keeping transaction volumes exceptionally lo w; this caused prices to fall further in the weakest areas and 
flatten in areas that had exhibi ted resilience until well into 2007, such as Ut ah and parts of the 
Pacific Northwest.  In contrast to the resident ial sector, construction activity and sales in the 
commercial and industrial sectors have been at high levels.  However, a recent trend toward 
slight easing for commerci al and industrial space continued during the survey period, with rising 
vacancies reported for Las Vegas and reduced re ntal demand noted for the San Francisco Bay 
Area. 
Financial Institutions 
 District banking contacts reported that lo an demand was little changed relative to the 
XII - 4 
previous survey period.  Reports  on commercial and industrial le nding were mixed across areas, 
with demand characterized as “strong” in some  areas and declining in others.  Lending for new 
residential mortgages remained very low, but  contacts noted that re financing of existing 
mortgages picked up, spurred by low interest rates.  Credit standards remained very tight for real 
estate loans and tightened perceptibly for c onsumer and business borrowers more generally 
during the survey period.  Like many other businesses, banks and other financial institutions 
recently have adopted a cautious approach to capita l spending, limiting projects to those that are 
necessary to replace aging equipment or have short-run payoffs such as increas ed productivity. 