 
               For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. 
               W e d n e s d a y                 June 8, 2011 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
  
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
May 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
  
MAY 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 SUMMARY ……..…………..…………………………………………….………....i 
First District - Boston ………..………………………………………..…….……...I-1 Second District - New York ….……………………………………………………II-1 Third District - Philadelphia ….……………………………………………......…III-1 Fourth District - Cleveland ….……………………………………...…………….IV-1 Fifth District - Richmond ….……………………………………...…...…………..V-1 Sixth District - Atlanta ….……………………………………..…...……………..VI-1 Seventh District - Chicago ….………………………………………...………….VII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis ….…………………………………..…...….………..VIII-1 Ninth District - Minneapolis ….…………………………………...……………...IX-1 Tenth District - Kansas City ….………………………………………...…...……..X-1 Eleventh District - Dallas ….…………………………………………….………..XI-1 Twelfth District  - San Francisco ….…………………………...……………...…XII-1   
 i
SUMMARY* 
 
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic activity 
generally continued to expand since the last report, though a few Districts indicated some 
deceleration.  Some slowing in the pace of gr owth was noted in the New York, Philadelphia, 
Atlanta, and Chicago Districts.  In contrast , Dallas characterized th at region’s economy as 
accelerating. Other Districts indicated that grow th continued at a steady pace.  Manufacturing 
activity continued to expand in most parts of the country, though a number of Districts noted 
some slowing in the pace of growth.  Activity  in the non-financial se rvice sectors expanded 
at a steady pace, led by industries related to information technology and business and 
professional services.   
Consumer spending was mixed, with most Districts indicating steady to modestly 
increasing activity.  Elevated food and energy pri ces, as well as unfavorable weather in some 
parts of the country, were said to be weighing on consumers’ pr opensity to spend.  Auto sales 
were mixed but fairly robust in most of th e country, though some slow ing was noted in the 
Northeastern regions.  Widespread supply disr uptions—primarily related to the disaster in 
Japan—were reported to have substantially re duced the flow of new automobiles into 
dealers’ inventories, which in turn held down sa les in some Districts.  Widespread shortages 
of used cars were also reported to be driving up prices.  Tourism activity improved in most 
Districts.  
                                                 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and based on information collected on or before May 27, 
2011.  This document summarizes comm ents received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal 
Reserve and is not a commentary on th e views of Federal Reserve officials. 
 ii
Residential construction and real estate continued to show widespread weakness, 
except in the rental segment, where market conditions have strengthened and construction 
activity and development have picked up.  Non-re sidential real estate leasing markets have 
been generally stable, while construction activity has rema ined very subdued.  Loan demand 
was steady to stronger in most Districts, especially in the co mmercial and industrial sector, 
and widespread improvement was reported in credit quality. 
Agricultural conditions were unfavorable acr oss much of the nati on, largely reflecting 
unseasonably cool and wet weather; widesp read flooding along the Mississippi River 
hampered agricultural production in the Atlanta and St. Louis Districts.  In the Dallas 
District, in contrast, drought conditions hurt th e wheat crop and led to broader damage from 
wildfires.  The energy industr y showed continued strength, w ith robust expansion in oil 
drilling and extraction activity.  
Labor market conditions continued to impr ove gradually across most of the nation, 
with a number of Districts noting a short supply of workers with specialized technical skills.  
Wage growth generally remained modest, tho ugh there were scattere d reports of steeper 
increases for highly skilled workers in certain  occupations.  Most Districts continued to 
report widespread increases in commodity prices ; manufacturers are said  to be passing along 
a portion of the higher costs in the form of price hikes and fuel surcharges.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending was generally described as  steady to up modestly since the last 
report, with most Districts indicating small incr eases from a year ago.  Non-auto retail sales 
were indicated to be expanding steadily in th e Philadelphia, Clevela nd, Minneapolis, Kansas 
City and Dallas Districts, while sales were characterized as stable or decelerating in the New 
 iii
York, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis and San Franci sco Districts.  Sales were reported to have 
declined in the Richmond District, and Bost on described sales as mixed but generally down 
from a year earlier.  Retail inventories were gene rally said to be at satisfactory levels, though 
St. Louis characterized inventory levels as be ing on the high side.  A number of Districts 
noted that a combination of unfavorable weathe r and high fuel and food prices have weighed 
on consumer spending in recent weeks.  Cleveland and San Francisco noted increased spending on discretionary items, and Philadelphi a indicated that some luxury goods retailers 
fared relatively well.  On the other hand, Ch icago reported a decline in discretionary 
spending. 
Most Districts reporting on vehicle sales in dicated that they have been steady to 
stronger since the last report, specifically Richmond, Chicago, St . Louis, Kansas City, Dallas 
and San Francisco.  In addition, Atlanta noted fi rm demand for automobiles.  On the other 
hand, some softening in car sales was noted in the northeastern Districts of New York, 
Philadelphia and Cleveland. Many Districts indicated that suppl y disruptions, primarily from 
Japan, have contributed to lean inventories, which have impeded auto sales somewhat.  There 
has also been widespread tightening in the market for used cars, reflecting both strong 
demand and a shortage of inventory.  Shifts in  consumer demand toward smaller, more fuel 
efficient cars were noted in the Philadelphia,  Cleveland, and Chicago Districts, while St. 
Louis mentioned a shift from higher-end to lower-end models.   
Tourism activity has generally strengthened since the last report, and the outlook for 
the summer season looks positive.  Improvement in this sector was reported in the Richmond, 
Atlanta, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts; in add ition, New York reported that 
tourism increased in April but appeared to edge back in early May. Dallas maintained that 
 iv
travel activity has been mixed, while Minneapo lis indicated that tourism has been slow 
recently due to adverse weather, but that inquiries and advance bookings for the summer 
season look strong. St. Louis noted  that flooding forced the te mporary closure of numerous 
casinos along the Mississippi River.  
Nonfinancial Services 
Activity in the non-financial service sectors c ontinued to strengthen in most Districts, 
with the notable exception of St. Louis, which reported fairly widespr ead declines.  Service 
sector activity generally expanded in th e Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City and Dallas District s, though Richmond noted deceleration in the 
pace of growth.  There were also  pockets of strength in part icular sectors.  Information 
technology firms saw activity expand in the Boston, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
and San Francisco Districts.  Employment ag encies in the Boston and Chicago Districts 
indicated continued improvement  in activity, while New York and Dallas reported some 
slowing in this industry.  Ne w York, Richmond and Minneapol is cited strengthening in 
business and professional servic es, while San Francisco indicated steady to mixed activity in 
this sector.   
Activity in the transportation sector improve d in the Cleveland, A tlanta, Kansas City 
and Dallas Districts.  Philadelphia and Rich mond noted some slowing in growth, and New 
York reported steady shipping activity, while San Francisco indicate d a slowdown in cargo 
traffic at Southern California seaports.  Dalla s also reported weakening in container trade 
volumes but noted increases in cargo volume, railr oad shipments and small parcel shipments.   
 v
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing activity was reported as continui ng to increase since the last report in 
all but two districts, although many noted that  the pace of growth had slowed. The Boston, 
Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis , and San Francisco, Districts reported that ac tivity expanded, 
and the Dallas District reported a pickup in demand; the Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, 
and Kansas City Districts reported that activity  expanded but at a slow er pace, while activity 
was reported as steady in the New York Distri ct and stable to grow ing in the Cleveland 
District. Supply disruptions rela ted to the earthquake in Japa n led to reduced production of 
automobiles and auto parts in several Districts.  The Cleveland District  noted a sharp drop in 
auto production, the Atlanta and St. Louis Di stricts also saw production fall, and auto 
deliveries were reported as having declined in  the Richmond District. The Atlanta District 
said lost production in its regi on would be made up later in the year. Contacts in the Chicago 
District said that contingency plans to deal w ith supply disruptions were helpful in mitigating 
the effects. High-tech firms in the Boston and Dallas Districts reported that shortages of 
parts, due to disruptions  in Japan, had adverse effects on business; in contrast, there were few 
supply constraints that affected technology-rela ted products in the San Francisco District.   
Growth was reported as strong for semic onductors in the San Francisco and Boston 
Districts. The Cleveland Distri ct reported that steel producer s were seeing shipping volumes 
level off after a strong first quart er performance, and the Chica go District noted a decline in 
second quarter orders for industrial metals, alt hough orders for the third quarter were coming 
in at a more positive pace. A contact in the Ri chmond District said th at demand for industrial 
metals had leveled off. The Chicago District reported a decline in activity for construction 
 vi
materials and household goods. Production rema ined strong for makers of commercial 
aircraft and parts in th e San Francisco District. 
Looking forward, contacts in most distri cts were generally optimistic about the 
outlook, although less so than  the last report. The Cl eveland District said that the majority of 
manufacturing contacts maintained a favorable  outlook, although some ar e delaying the start 
of capital projects. Contacts were  generally cautiously optimi stic in the Boston District, 
although some expect sales growth to moderate. Contacts were mostly positive about the outlook in the Philadelphia Dist rict, though the level of optimis m was not quite as strong as 
in the last report. Chicago Di strict contacts expect condi tions to rebound in the coming 
months. A majority of contacts in the Atla nta District planned to increase production.  
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate sales markets show ed continued weakness in most Districts, 
while rental markets strengthene d.  Most Districts indicate th at home prices have declined 
since the last report: Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco all report some downw ard drift in selling prices, while reports from the New York 
and Cleveland Districts indicate  that prices have been stea dy, on balance.  No district 
indicates a general incr ease in home prices. Sales activity, though widely reported to be at 
low levels, picked up somewhat in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts.  Dallas indicated that improved traffi c has raised prospects of improved sales in the 
second half of 2011, and Boston observed signs that  the market is stabilizing.  Sales activity 
was characterized as mostly steady in the Ne w York, Cleveland, Dallas and San Francisco 
Districts, but declining in the St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts. Those Districts reporting 
on the residential rental market—specifically , New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, 
 vii
Dallas, and San Francisco—all indicate that c onditions have strengthened.  In terms of 
residential construction, activity has remain ed generally depressed, with a number of 
Districts reporting a large overh ang of distressed properties .  However, a number of 
Districts—New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco—report improved 
prospects for development of multi-family rental properties. 
Commercial and industrial real  estate markets have gene rally been steady since the 
last report, though there have b een scattered signs of a pickup.  Commercial leasing markets 
showed modest signs of improvement in the Ri chmond and San Francisco Districts.  Boston 
and Dallas noted some firming in property sales markets, but Kansas City reported declines 
in prices for office buildings.  Non-residentia l construction, though widely reported to be at 
very low levels, rose modestly in the Bost on, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts, 
though Chicago noted that public s ector projects are becoming sm aller.  Cleveland observed 
a pickup in industrial and hi gh-end commercial development but a pullback in healthcare-
related projects.  Richmond reported some pock ets of strength in the retail market.  More 
broadly, contacts in a number of Districts expressed a genera l sense of optimism about the 
outlook for the second half of 2011.   
Banking and Finance 
Most Districts described loan demand as mi xed or slightly impr oved since the last 
report. Consumer loan demand showed some improvement in the Cleveland, Richmond, and 
St. Louis Districts, but held steady or weaken ed in the New York, Atlanta, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Districts. Demand for residential mortgages (i ncluding new purchases and 
refinances) increased in Clev eland but held steady in New York, Richmond, St. Louis, and 
Kansas City. Contacts in the Philadelphia, Cl eveland, Richmond, Atlant a, Chicago, Dallas, 
 viii
and San Francisco Districts noted  a modest uptick in business loan demand. The increase in 
business loan demand in Cleveland was desc ribed as broad-based, including a pickup in 
construction loan requests for multi-family dwellings. Boston noted an improved lending environment for commercial real estate, and de mand for commercial mo rtgages increased in 
New York and Dallas. Commerci al and industrial loan activ ity increased in Richmond, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco, held steady in  New York, and decreased in 
Kansas City. Outside of banking, Chicago and Sa n Francisco indicated increased investment 
activity by hedge funds, venture capital firm s, and other forms of private equity. 
Credit standards were reported to be mixe d but, on balance, a bit easier in recent 
weeks.  New York, Cleveland, and Atlanta noted increased credit availa bility for automobile 
loans; Atlanta, Minneapolis and San Francisc o indicated easier cred it for some types of 
business loans.  Boston reported some easing in commercial real estate lending, but New 
York reported tighter standards in that segmen t.  Credit standards on home mortgage loans 
tightened somewhat in the St. Louis District.  A number of Districts noted improvements in 
overall credit quality: specifica lly, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Ri chmond, Kansas City, Dallas, 
and San Francisco.  New York indicated risi ng delinquency rates on consumer loans but 
declining rates on commercia l loans and mortgages. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Agriculture conditions were unfavorable in  many districts, with various weather 
related difficulties leading to delays and be low-average plantings of  key crops. Excess 
precipitation and cool temperatur es delayed the planting of cor n, soybeans, and other crops in 
the Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St . Louis, Minneapolis, and Kans as City Districts, although 
Richmond reported that some parts of its District benefited from favorable weather 
 ix
conditions. Cool temperatures also delayed the development of some crops in the San 
Francisco District. Flooding on the Mississippi River slowed activity for farmers in the St. 
Louis and Atlanta Districts. The Dallas Distri ct reported that drought conditions had become 
severe and that the wheat crop was expected to  be particularly poor; wildfires also led to 
significant agricultural losses in its District. Comm odity prices were reported as strong in the 
Atlanta and Minneapolis District s, but were down in the Chic ago District. Hog prices were 
higher in the Chicago, Minneapo lis, and Kansas City District s, while cattle prices were 
reported as lower in the Chicago and Kansas C ity Districts but higher in the Minneapolis and 
Atlanta Districts.  
Activity in the energy  industry remained robust. Dr illing activity was reported as 
strong and growing in the Dallas  District, and work is being re-permitted in the Gulf of 
Mexico. The San Francisco Distri ct reported that oil extracti on activity grew strongly in 
response to rising demand oversea s, and that the demand for natu ral gas continued to expand. 
In the Minneapolis District, oi l exploration activity increased. Contacts reported an increase 
in drilling activity in the Kansas City Dist rict, although shortages of  equipment and labor 
created some drilling constraints. The St. Loui s District reported th at coal production was 
modestly lower. 
Employment, Wages and Prices 
Most Districts reported gradua l improvement in labor mark et conditions  since their 
last reports. Boston, New Yor k, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas all noted general improvement in em ployment conditions, while job growth was 
mostly limited to the manufacturing sector in the Cleveland and St. Louis Districts. Demand 
for permanent and temporary-to-permanent hiring increased in the Boston, Richmond, 
 x
Atlanta, and Chicago Districts. While labor wa s generally available, contacts in the Boston, 
Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas C ity, Dallas, and San Francisco Di stricts indicated that labor 
market conditions have tightened for workers with specialized technical skills, particularly in the healthcare and technology s ectors. Despite signs of continued modest improvement in 
most labor markets, Minneapolis noted several examples of expected layoffs and St. Louis 
reported plans for layoffs in th e District’s services sector. 
Wage pressures were reported to be largely contained in most Districts, as abundant 
labor availability has continue d to limit the pace of wage growth. Modest wage pressures 
were reported in the Boston, Cleveland, Chica go, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Districts, while wages were report ed as steady in New York and Philadelphia. 
However, contacts in the Minneapolis, Kansas  City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts 
noted that wage increases have been more significant for some highly skilled workers in 
occupations with labor shortages. Firms’ expect ations for labor and benefits costs moderated 
slightly in Atlanta. 
Input prices continued to in crease in most Districts, particularly for agricultural 
commodities, petroleum-based products, and in dustrial metals, although the pace of growth 
slowed in the Chicago and Kansas City District s. In addition, several Districts reported that 
fuel surcharges have increased or become mo re widely used since the last report. While 
Boston indicated that firms were  able to pass along most inpu t price increases into selling 
prices, contacts in Philadelphia, Clevel and, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted onl y a limited ability to pass through these cost 
increases to their customers, with manufacturers gene rally being more su ccessful than retail 
or construction firms. In general, selling pri ces increased only modes tly, except for food and 
 xi
energy prices, which continued to escalate.  In  addition, low inventory levels contributed to 
price increases for used cars in the New York, Cleveland, Chicago, and San Francisco 
Districts.  Plans to implement future increases in selling prices were reported in the Boston, 
New York, Chicago, an d Dallas Districts. 
I-1 
 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Many business contacts in the First District report improving economic conditions. Firms in 
manufacturing, software and information t echnology, and staffing services cite ongoing 
increases in demand, with manufacturers reporting the most strength. Commercial real estate 
markets are improving modestly, retail reports ar e mixed, and residential real estate markets 
remain weak. Both retailers and manufacturers report input cost incr eases, which they are 
generally passing along to customers. Labor mark ets, by contrast, are seeing some net hiring, 
but wage increases remain subdued. Outlooks re main generally optimistic, although cautious. 
Retail   
First District retailers report mixed sales resu lts for the period from late March through mid 
May, with comparable same-store sales rang ing from low double-di git decreases to low 
single-digit increases. A few contacted retailers  mention decreases in demand, and all express 
concern about the negative impact of rising fuel prices on their own costs, especially 
shipping, and on consumers’ shopping habits. 
Inventory levels are mixed, w ith one retailer explaining inve ntory has been temporarily 
increased due to global supply concerns, such as output disruptions in  Japan. Contacts note 
steep price increases for commodities, includ ing cotton, dairy, grains, meat, produce, and 
nuts; they are passing along pri ce increases where possible. H eadcount changes are mixed, as 
some firms add people in line with new store openings and select hiri ng opportunities, while 
one has cut jobs and anticipates outsourcing select positions. Cap ital spending is mixed. 
Outlooks range from concerned to cautiously optimistic.  
Manufacturing and Related Services 
I-2 
 
Business conditions continue to be good at surveyed manufactur ers. A parts manufacturer for 
autos and other vehicles reports that it is struggling to keep up with increased demand. A 
firm in the semiconductor industry also cites very  strong sales growth in  the first quarter of 
this year continuing into the second quar ter. Reports from local pharmaceutical 
manufacturers are also favorable , especially compared with the end of last year, and a 
company in the medical devices business notes improving sales of its traditional product line 
after a lengthy period of very sluggish grow th. Overall, contacted manufacturers are 
cautiously optimistic that growth will continue at a reasonable pace for the rest of the second 
quarter and into the second half of the year. Some firms, however, expect sales growth to 
moderate somewhat, in part because th e second half of 2010 was strong for many 
respondents.  Commodity prices continue to be a concer n for manufacturers w hose production inputs 
include petroleum or gas-related products and/or firms that use a lot of metals such as steel. 
Most of the affected companies have already ra ised prices with little  push-back from their 
customers, and a number of them plan to im plement further price hikes this summer. By 
contrast, a pharmaceutical company with overseas sales notes downward pressure on their selling prices to government health care system s in Europe, which they  attribute to ongoing 
fiscal imbalances across the Euro-area a nd related intervention s to reduce costs and 
government debt. Some firms still report mode st supply chain disruptions because of the 
earthquake in Japan (mostly semi conductor-related a nd other high tech in puts) or worldwide 
demand-related shortages of sel ected petroleum-related products. However, one affected firm 
notes that supply conditions have improved sligh tly recently and others say they continue to 
make adjustments to avoid a big im pact on their produc tion or sales.  
I-3 
 
The employment situation at surveyed manufact urers continues to be relatively stable, as 
many continue to try to increase output using existing workers. A semiconductor firm notes 
that the cost of this year’s merit raises will be offset through other productivity gains, so the 
overall cost impact is neglig ible. Those firms that are hiri ng are doing so at a relatively 
moderate rate to meet increased demand for existing or new products. In particular, some 
pharmaceutical companies plan to meet incr eased demand by increasing their headcounts 
between 5 percent and 10 percent. Much of th e hiring and investment at contacted firms is 
occurring overseas as they look to expand their operations , especially in Asia. Most 
respondents have already or plan to institute  merit increases for their employees in 2011, 
ranging between 2 percent and 5 percent, which th ey note are a little lower than before the 
recent recession.  Capital spending at most contacte d manufacturers continues to be in  line with previous years. 
A few companies, however, are i nvesting more in order to adju st their capacity to meet 
increased demand. Overall, the outlook for th e contacted firms is favorable and most 
respondents seem somewhat more upbeat th an at the beginni ng of this year.  
Software and Information Technology Services 
New England software and information technolo gy firms report modest increases in activity 
through May. Year-over-year revenue increases, ranging from 4 percent to 20 percent, were 
generally driven by increases in software licen se revenues, while maintenance contracts grew 
at a slower rate. Contacts report pick-ups in  demand across sectors, including manufacturing, 
financial, and medical. Increased activity ha s led to increasing headcounts, many by more 
than 5 percent from a year ago. Contacts genera lly cite a tightening la bor market, especially 
for specialized technical positions, but note that  it has not resulted in upward pressure on 
I-4 
 
wages. Selling prices are hol ding steady, although half of responding firms observe less 
discounting pressure currently th an in Q4 2010; in fact, two c ontacts plan to raise prices 
modestly later this year. Ca pital and technology spending is mostly steady, with only two 
contacts reporting an increase in outlays. Th e outlook among software and IT services firms 
remains positive, with most expecting their curr ent rate of growth to  continue through the 
end of 2011.  
Staffing Services 
The majority of New England staffing contacts report that business cond itions continue to 
improve, although a few have experienced stagnant  or volatile activity over the past three 
months. Revenues are flat to increasing year-ove r-year, with increases from 3 percent to 35 
percent. Labor demand continues to streng then, with notable improvements in the 
information technology, medical, manufacturing, a nd legal sectors. However, a few contacts 
lament an elongated hiring cycle, with employe rs “still waiting for the perfect candidate.” 
Demand for permanent and temporary-to-perma nent hiring continues to trend upwards—a 
sign that “things are heading in the right dire ction.” Labor supply, at least at the high end, 
continues to be tight in the region. Bill rates and pay rates are steady, with most contacts 
reporting only modest changes. Looking forw ard, most New England staffing contacts are 
more positive than they were th ree and six months ago, predicti ng strong growth in the rest 
of 2011.  
Commercial Real Estate 
Across the region, contacts re port that commercial leas ing activity remains modest, 
especially in the office sector where job grow th has been tepid. The Hartford office market 
shows very light leasing activ ity and negligible absorption. In Providence, office leasing 
I-5 
 
volume was also very light, but rents are said to be firming up. Office leasing activity in 
Boston is described as slow-to- moderate, and some say recent activity is slower than in the 
first quarter. Boston deals consist largely of tena nt renewals, resulting in  little net absorption. 
The biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sector in Bo ston is seen as comparatively dynamic, 
generating strong demand for office space in Ca mbridge and planned new construction in 
Boston’s waterfront area. In Port land, activity is flat for the most part, although at least one 
significant office leasing deal was signed. Investor  interest in apartments remains strong in 
Boston, with some contacts expressing concern that  sales prices are gett ing too high; interest 
in prime office properties also strengthen ed in Boston. The lending environment for 
commercial real estate is described as incr easingly favorable to borrowers. The outlook 
among contacts is cautiously optimis tic. All expect at least slow growth in office and retail 
demand for the remainder of 2011 and some s ee potential for significant improvement in 
market conditions by early 2012, although a few men tion risks posed by fiscal conditions and 
related political uncertainty at both  the state and national levels.   
Residential Real Estate 
Residential real estate market s throughout New England experien ced significant declines in 
sales and median prices in April compared to  a year earlier. Cont acts attribute the sales 
declines to the homebuyer tax credit, which boosted sales for th e first half of last year. 
Condominium sales fell during the same peri od, and the median price of condos slipped 
across much of the region. Most contacts see job security as a si gnificant hurdle in the 
recovery of the residential real  estate market. Several contacts  also note that stricter lending 
requirements among large banks have shrunk the potential pool of homebuyers. In general, 
contacts report that potentia l buyers are anticipating furthe r price declines and sellers 
I-6 
 
continue to price homes competitively in orde r to find a buyer quickly. While overall market 
activity remains weak, respondents see some improvement in the medium to high-end 
segments of the market. Contacts throughout the region expect  year-over-year d eclines to continue for the next few 
months because of last year’s homebuyer tax credit. Although several contacts believe that 
much of the New England real estate mark et has begun stabilizing, they caution that a 
lengthy recovery still remains. 
   
II-1 
 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has continued to expand since the last report, though at a 
somewhat diminished pace.  Labor market cond itions have continued to improve modestly.  
Retail sales have held steady at  favorable levels since the last  report.  Consumer confidence 
reports have been mixed.   Tourism activity picked up in April but  tapered off a bit in early May.  
Commercial real estate markets have been relatively stable.  The residential purchase market 
has been steady to somewhat softer, but the rental market has continued to improve; new 
residential construction remains low.  Finally, bankers report further weakening in consumer 
loan demand, tighter credit standards on the comm ercial sector, and highe r delinquency rates on 
consumer loans but somewhat lower de linquencies in other loan categories. 
Consumer Spending  
Retail sales have held steady since the la st report and are running modestly above 
comparable 2010 levels.  Sales were somewhat ahead of plan, despite unseasonably cool and 
wet weather, which likely had a small negati ve effect on spending.  Two contacts—a major 
retail chain and a large mall in upstate New York—report that sales weakened in the first half of May, after a robust April.  Inventories are reported to be in good shape.  Selling prices have been steady overall, though some contacts desc ribe the pricing environment as more 
promotional than a year ago.  One major retail chain indicates that pri ces have been stable 
during the first half of the year ; yet moderate price increases ar e planned for the second half of 
2011—largely for cotton-based merchandise.   
Auto dealers in upstate New York report th at sales of new vehicles have cooled 
somewhat since the first quarter but remain at  fairly high levels, up moderately from a year 
earlier.  Some of the slowing in sales is attributed to  supply disruptions rela ted to the tsunami in 
II-2 
 
Japan.  One local auto dealers’ association re ports an exceptionally low inventory of used 
vehicles, which has hampered sales volume a nd pushed prices up.  Re tail credit conditions 
continued to improve, while wholesal e credit conditions were mixed.   
Consumer confidence surveys have given mi xed results.  Siena College reports that 
consumer confidence among New York State resident s fell to its lowest level of the year in 
April—largely attributed to surging food and ener gy prices.  In contrast, the Conference Board 
reports that consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) 
surged in April, reaching its highest level sin ce late 2007; the rise was largely driven by 
improved perceptions of job availability.   
Tourism activity in New York City strength ened in April, though there were signs of 
some pullback in May.  Occ upancy rates at Manhattan hotel s moved up by more than the 
seasonal norm in April, and room rates accel erated, running 5-10 percen t higher than a year 
earlier.  Partly due to a spate of new show openings, Broadway theater s report that both 
attendance and total revenues surged in April and were runni ng 10 to 15 percent ahead of a year 
earlier, after a sluggish March,.  Attendance an d revenues slipped in May, although both were 
still up from a year earlier.    
Construction and Real Estate 
Housing markets across the District have b een mixed since the la st report: the home 
purchase market has been steady to somewhat so fter, but the rental market has continued to 
strengthen.  Buffalo-area Realtors report stea dy market conditions, with sales activity and 
pending sales down from a year ea rlier but prices up roughly 5 percent.  More broadly, home 
prices have been running moderately ahead of a year earlier across most of upstate New York, 
despite pockets of weakness in  metropolitan Rochester and Alba ny.  However, prices in the 
II-3 
 
New York City metropolitan area, includi ng northern New Jersey and southwestern 
Connecticut, have drifted down slightly and are modestly lower than a year ago.   
An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that sales of  existing homes have 
slowed since the last report, and new home sale s remained depressed.  A sizable inventory of 
foreclosed properties—roughly eq ual to nine months of sale s—is reported to be putting 
downward pressure on home prices  overall.  However, low volum e and a sizable incidence of 
distressed sales make it difficult to gauge price trends in norther n New Jersey.  Activity in New 
York City’s co-op and condo market was mixed but generally stable since the last report, with 
Manhattan, Brooklyn and Bronx hold ing steady—in terms of both pr ices and sales activity.  
Some softening was evident in Queens and Staten  Island.  Long Island’s market has been stable, 
though conditions have weakened in the Hamptons, wh ere sales activity is off, especially at the 
high end.    
In contrast with the sluggish purchase market , rental markets have performed fairly well, 
particularly in New York City: Manhattan rents are reported to be up roughly 6 percent from a 
year ago.  Moreover, when the widespread wit hdrawal of landlord conce ssions is factored in, 
the rise in effective rents has been steeper.  Re ntal vacancy rates have drifted down.  Contacts in 
both New York City and northern New Jersey see relatively little new residential construction, 
and note that most new and proposed de velopment is for rental housing.   
Commercial real estate markets have been la rgely steady since the la st report.  Office 
markets showed signs of modest improvement in New York City, Long Island, and most of 
upstate New York, as vacancy rate s edged down while asking rents were steady to up slightly.  
However, market conditions weakened somewhat  in northern New Jersey, Westchester and 
Fairfield Counties, and in the Albany area.  I ndustrial vacancy rates rose in Long Island but 
II-4 
 
were little changed in other markets.  In mu ch of the District, asking rents on industrial 
properties, which had been de clining through the end of 2010, have leveled off or moved up 
modestly in recent months.    
Other Business Activity 
Reports from business contacts give a mixed picture of the labor market.  A major New 
York City employment agency reports that, after a robust March, hiring activity weakened 
noticeably in April and early May, though it picked up again in the th ird week of Ma y.  Still, the 
supply of available workers has dwindled furthe r, and more workers are testing the water and 
leaving current jobs for new ones.  Starting salaries have remained steady and below pre-
recession levels.  Law firms, in particular, have st arted hiring more, while financial sector hiring 
has been stable.  A contact in th e securities industry reports that  the jobs being added there tend 
to be mostly in support areas, such as legal and compliance, as opposed to re venue-generating 
areas. 
Non-manufacturing firms broadly indicate that  both business and hiring activity have 
been steady to modestly higher since the last report.  Contacts have become slightly less 
optimistic about the near term outlook and have  scaled back hiring plans somewhat.  Non-
manufacturing firms report that co st pressures remain widespread  but have not broadened since 
the last report.  Manufacturing firms in the District report that business activity was generally steady in April and early May.  C ontacts report that they are adding workers, on net, and plan to 
continue to do so in the months ahead. Manufact urers also note increasingly widespread price 
pressures, and roughly two in five sa y they plan to hike their selli ng prices in the months ahead.  
A trucking-industry contact reports that shipping  activity has shown no sign of slipping, despite 
the recent surge in diesel prices. 
II-5 
 
Financial Developments  
Reports on loan demand were mixed: small to  medium sized banks indicate a decrease 
in demand for consumer loans, an increase in demand for commercial mortgages, and no change 
in the demand for residential mortgages and commercial and industria l loans.  Respondents 
indicate no change in credit standards for the hous ehold sector but a tight ening of standards for 
commercial loans and especially commercial mort gages.  Bankers report a decrease in spreads 
of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan ca tegories—particularly on residential mortgages.  
There were also fairly widespre ad decreases in deposit rates.  Finally, delinquency rates rose for 
consumer loans but decreased for commercial mort gages and, to a lesser extent, on commercial 
and industrial loans.  Delinquency rates on residential mortgages were unchanged.   
 
III-1 
 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Business activity in the Third District ha s improved overall sinc e the last Beige Book, 
although the pace has softened. Manufacturers repor ted increases in shipments and new orders 
in May, although at a much slower pace than the past two months. Retaile rs posted slight year-
over-year sales increases in May. Motor vehicle dealers reported a slow down in sales during 
May compared with the first four months of the year. Third District banks  reported little overall 
change in loan volume outstanding, on balance, since the last Beige Book. Residential real 
estate agents said sales have increased seasona lly, but house prices have been flat to down. 
Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said that mark et conditions have shown little 
change since the first quarter. Service-sector  firms reported modest increases in activity. 
Business contacts reported further price increases for inputs as th ey did in the previous Beige 
Book. There have been some retail price increase s, and more firms in a range of sectors have 
implemented fuel surcharges. 
 Expectations among Third District busine ss contacts are mostly for slow growth. 
Manufacturers forecast a modest rise in shipme nts and orders during the next six months. 
Retailers expect sales to  advance slowly on a year-over-year basis. Auto dealers say the outlook 
is uncertain. Bankers expect only slight growth in lending. Contact s in residential real estate 
expect moderate seasonal gains in sales, but they expect sales fo r this year as a whole to be 
about the same as sales last year. Contacts in  commercial real estate expect conditions to 
improve slowly, with markets firming around the end of the year. Serv ice-sector companies 
expect continued slow growth. 
 
III-2 
 
Manufacturing 
Reports of widespread, robust demand growth for manufactured products as of the last 
Beige Book gave way to two months of easing in  the breadth and pace of  recovery. Less than 30 
percent of Third District manuf acturers reported increases in shipments and orders in May — 
slipping from over 50 percent si nce the last Beige Book. Among key manufacturing sectors in 
the Third District, the number reporting increases of both shipments and orders narrowed to 7 
from 13 since the last Beige Book. The strongest  reports of orders came from producers of 
chemicals; food; stone, clay, a nd glass; and fabricated metal products. Since the last Beige 
Book, declines in orders broadened from producer s of apparel and rubber products to include 
producers of electronic equipment and instrument s. Failure to pass a multiyear transportation 
infrastructure reauthorization bill and the ongoing real estate slump were cited by five different 
manufacturing sectors as hampering the recovery.   
Third District manufacturers remain mostly positive about business conditions over the 
next six months; however, the percent of firms e xpecting increases fell off sharply since the last 
Beige Book, from 66 percent to 36 percent. Among the firms contac ted in May, about 38 
percent expect increases in new orders and ship ments, while about 20 perc ent expect decreases. 
A little uncertainty has crept back into manufactur ers’ expectations, with several contacts citing 
“swings” in activity. Capital sp ending plans over a six-month planning horizon have changed 
little since the last Beige B ook, with about one-third of firms projecting increases. 
Retail 
Third District retailers generally reported sm all year-over-year increases in sales in May, 
although results varied by stor e type. Discount stores and so me luxury goods retailers posted 
better increases than mid-price retailers and depa rtment stores. Retailers said sales of spring 
III-3 
 
apparel have been held back by cool, rainy weat her. Several merchants said that high gasoline 
prices were deterring shopping trips and constraining consumer s’ discretionary buying. Looking 
ahead, store executives expect ju st slow growth in sales. On e merchant’s comment expressed 
the general opinion: “The consumer  is responding to value. Only confidence in the job situation 
will prompt broader buying.” 
Third District auto dealers ge nerally reported that sales slow ed in May from the pace set 
from January through April. Some dealers said  they were facing supply constraints resulting 
from the interruption of Japanese vehicle and parts production, and some  dealers said demand 
has slowed as consumers reconsider model prefer ences in response to hi gher gasoline prices. 
Dealers are uncertain of the future course of sale s; most said the sales rate going forward will be 
more sensitive to gasoline prices and consumer confidence than it had been earlier in the year. 
Finance 
Third District banks contacted in May gave  mixed reports on loan volume outstanding. 
Some posted increases in consumer and busines s loans, but others reported drops in these 
categories since the last Beige Book. On balan ce, total credit extended by banks in the region 
has been flat in recent weeks. Although some bankers have had recent increases in loan demand from small and medium businesses, most said de mand for credit from this sector has been weak. 
“Loan demand hasn’t moved at all,” one said, ev en as competition among lenders has increased. 
Most of the banks surveyed in May indicated  that credit quality has been improving, although 
some said the pace of improvement has been slow. Looking ahead, the general view among the region’s bankers is that loan demand will move up slightly, at best, in the near future.  
Real Estate and Construction 
III-4 
 
Residential real estate activity has picked  up since the previous Beige Book in most 
parts of the Third District, accordin g to residential real estate ag ents contacted for this report. 
Agents continued to note that the sales pace ha s been relatively stronger for middle- and low-
price homes and weaker for high- price homes. Agents attributed the improved sales pace to the 
usual seasonal gain and buyers’ co ncern that mortgage loan rates are likely to increase in the 
future. Looking ahead, residential real  estate agents expect sales fo r this year as a whole to be 
level with last year. An agent who remarked that  “we are off the bottom, but it’s going to be a 
slow comeback” expressed a common opinion. Resi dential agents genera lly reported flat to 
slightly falling house prices for existing homes.  New homebuilders indica ted that these lower 
existing home sales prices further reduced their customer traffic in May. While they see more 
committed buyers among the traffic, overall  demand for new homes remains flat.   
Commercial and industrial market conditions in the Third District have shown little 
change since the previous Beige Book, according to  area nonresidential real estate contacts, 
although some noted that office vacancy rates have  edged down slightly in some areas. Rents 
have been steady in most areas, and concessions  remain common. Contacts in commercial real 
estate reported that demand for space in Cla ss A office buildings has strengthened relative to 
Class B space as local companies relocate upon lease expirations. “Companies are trading up 
for higher quality,” one contact said . This trend is expected to continue for the rest of this year, 
and any reduction in vacancy rates for less desira ble buildings is expected to lag the modest 
decline in Class A vacancy rates that commercial r eal estate agents forecast for the balance of 
2011. Industrial rents have been flat, but some cont acts expect them to rise toward the end of 
the year as demand for space grows in the absence of new supply. 
 
III-5 
 
Services 
Third District service-sector firms contacted  for this report generally described demand 
for their services as growing modestly. Business -service firms noted some increased activity as 
a result of both greater usage by current clie nts and demand from new client companies. An 
executive at a business-service firm said, “Our  activity in cyclical sectors is starting to 
improve.” Contacts in the transportation sector reported some recent easing in the slow, steady growth rate that held for the first four m onths of the year. Contacts in engineering and 
architectural services reported slight gains in current activity and a some what stronger upturn in 
inquiries. Most of the service-se ctor firms polled in May expect growth to continue at around its 
recent pace.  
Prices and Wages 
Since the previous Beige Book, nearly half of all manufacturers re ported rising factor 
prices, especially for energy and commodities, but less than half of those firms are able to pass 
costs through to their customers. However, impos ition of fuel surcharges by service firms in the 
region has increased. Retailers gene rally indicated that selling pr ices have been steady, except 
for food products and some petroleum-based products and imports. Retailers noted that 
consumers continue to favor lower price-point merchandise, and stores are continuing to alter 
merchandise selection to incl ude more of those items. 
Business firms in the region reported mostly  steady wages since the last Beige Book. 
Reports on nonwage employment costs varied; so me firms indicated that benefits costs, 
primarily for health insurance, have been stab le, but others indicated  that they have had 
increases ranging up to 10 percent or more compared with a year ago. 
  
IV-1 
 
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Business activity in the Fourth District co ntinued to expand at a modest pace since our 
last report.  Manufacturers report ed a slight rise in  production, though several noted a softening 
in market conditions.  Freight transport volum e increased for a broad range of manufactured 
goods.  Information received from retailers remain ed positive, while auto dealers experienced a 
slight downturn in sales.  Energy producers noted little change in  output.  New home 
construction was sluggish, whereas nonresidential  building is picking up some.  The demand for 
business credit rose slightly, and activity  in consumer lending was mixed.    
Rising payrolls were mainly limited to the manufacturing sector.  Staffing-firm 
representatives noted moderate growth in th e number of new job openings, with vacancies 
concentrated in health care and manufacturing.  Wage pressures are largely contained.  Reports 
of elevated prices for commodities, steel, fuel , and other raw materials were common.  As a 
result, manufacturers, retailers , and freight carriers passed through some of these higher input 
prices to their customers.        
Manufacturing.  Reports from District f actories indicate that production was stable or 
slightly up during the past six w eeks, with a moderate rise in backlogs.  A majority of our 
contacts maintain a favorable outlook, some of  which was attributed to strength in offshore 
markets.  However, several manufacturers said th at market conditions are beginning to soften.  
Many steel producers and service cent ers reported that the rise in  shipping volume seen in the 
first quarter is beginning to tape r off, due in part to pricing issues and declines in consumer 
demand.  Shipments are being driven by capital g oods, autos, and energy-related industries.  
They anticipate volume remaining at current levels until a seasonal slowdown, which typically occurs during the third quarter.   District auto production dr opped sharply during April on a 
IV-2 
 
month-over-month and year-over-yea r basis.  Most of the declin e was due to supply disruptions 
caused by events in Japan.   
Manufacturers remain committed to raising capital outlays in the upcoming months 
relative to year-ago levels .  Nonetheless, about a third of our  contacts reported that they are 
delaying the start of some projec ts.  Capacity utilization rates are below what is considered 
normal for a majority of manufacturers.  Prices  for metal and agricultural commodities, steel, 
and petroleum-based products remain elevated.  Most of our contacts reported passing through 
some of these higher input prices to their cust omers.  A few producers co mmented that steel and 
scrap prices have peaked and are expected to begin falling back.  Manufacturers continued 
hiring at a modest pace, with mo st new hires being higher-skilled  workers.  Several contacts 
also noted a slight increase in wage pressures.     
Real Estate.  New home construction remains at a very low level, with purchases 
mainly in the move-up buyer categories.  The uptic k in traffic and sales noted in our last report 
was not sustained.  Two of our contacts told us  that more interest exists in multi-family 
construction than single-family.  Home builders do not expect the market to turn around any 
time soon, which they attributed to tight credit, a glut of houses on the market, and the fact it 
currently costs more per square foot to build a new house than to buy an existing house.  List 
prices and discounting of new homes held stea dy, while some upward pressure on the cost of 
building materials was reported.  Several builders sa id they want to construct more spec houses, 
but banks are unwilling to provide financing.  Subcontractors are doing somewhat better due to 
facing less competition and taking on additiona l remodeling work.  General contractors 
continue to work with lean  crews, and no hiring is exp ected in the near term.   
Information on nonresidential c onstruction varied widely.  However, one aspect our 
IV-3 
 
contacts agreed on was a moderate improvement  in inquiries.  Activity is being driven by 
industrial projects and high-end projects (gre ater than $100 million) that are now in the 
construction phase, after severa l years of planning.  We h eard reports of a pullback in 
healthcare-related work.  A majority of our contacts expect that activity will slowly improve as the year progresses.  Financing is more readily  available if developers are willing to increase 
their equity share.  We heard re ports of increased prices for build ing materials, particularly for 
steel.  One contact noted that materials suppliers  are holding back price in creases due to a lack 
of demand.  Contractors are abso rbing rising materials prices in their margins.  General 
contractors held payrolls steady, and they expe ct little, if any, new permanent hiring in the 
upcoming months. 
Consumer Spending.  Reports from retailers indicate that sales for the period from 
early April through mid-May rose in the low to mid-single digits and were generally on or 
ahead of plan.  However, some of the increase was attributed to the ri se in gasoline and food 
prices. Transactions were mostly higher relative to year-ago levels.  Many of our contacts noted 
that rising sales included disc retionary items.  Looking forw ard, retailers are cautiously 
optimistic about third-quarter sales.  We con tinue to hear about ri sing vendor prices, although 
they were mainly limited to food- and fuel-rela ted products.  Retailers passed through some of 
the increases to consumers.  Reports on prof it margins were mixed, with declines taken 
primarily by grocers.  Capita l outlays remain on plan and ar e slightly higher than year-ago 
levels.  No change in payrolls is expected at existing stores. 
 Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sale s showed a slight downturn during April and 
early May.  March sales were gi ven a big boost due to regional auto shows.  On a year-over-
year basis, vehicle purchases increased for almost  all of our contacts.  Demand for smaller, fuel-
IV-4 
 
efficient cars continues to rise , while inventories were character ized as somewhat low by most 
dealers and may be hurting sales.  Dealers are cautious in their outlook due to high gas prices 
and concern over the availa bility of vehicles with a Japanese  nameplate.  Demand for used cars 
is fairly strong, especially thos e that are fuel efficient.  However, scarce inventory is 
contributing to rising prices.  Credit availability and prici ng have improved, and the use of 
leasing as a credit alternative is growing.  Au tomakers are now putting in place timetables for 
dealers to complete reimaging and expansion of  their facilities.  The only roadblock from the 
dealers’ perspective is the ability to obtain financing.  Most  auto dealers are beginning to hire 
on a selective basis.  
Banking.  Demand for business loans was stable or grew at a modest pace.  Industries 
driving loan demand were broad-based, with a few of our contacts noting a pick up in 
construction loan requests for multi-family dwe llings.  On the consumer side, demand for home 
equity lines of credit and vehicle purchases (d irect and indirect) rema ins strong, while activity 
in other installment loan categories was weak.  Interest rates for business and consumer credit 
were stable, but competitive.  Ha lf of our contacts noted an upt ick in the residential mortgage 
market, with activity equally distributed between  refinancing and new purchases.  Overall core 
deposits continue to grow, esp ecially in demand accounts.  The credit quality of business and 
consumer applicants was characterized as stea dy or improving.  Delinquency rates were stable 
or trending down across loan portfolios, with the exception of real estate.  Staffing levels have 
shown little change during the past few weeks, a nd about half of our respondents said that they 
expect some selective hiri ng to occur during 2011.    
Energy.  Reports indicate that oil and natura l gas drilling and production held steady 
during the past six weeks, with li ttle change expected in the near  term.  Wellhead prices paid to 
IV-5 
 
independent producers were flat fo r natural gas and continued on a modest upward trend for oil.  
Coal production was stable to moderately lowe r since our last report,  with little change 
anticipated for the remainder of the year.  Spot  prices for coal, especially metallurgical, are 
moving higher, which was attributed in part to a rise in transportation costs.  We heard several 
reports of increased prices for diesel fuel, e quipment, parts, and materials used in coal 
production.  Severe spring weather in the Midwest is inte rfering with coal sh ipments to utilities 
and exports from New Orleans.  Energy payrolls are e xpected to remain at  current levels.  
Transportation.   Freight transport executives re ported that shipping volume expanded 
for a broad range of manufactured goods, and they expect markets will continue to grow in the 
upcoming months.  Several contacts told us th at they are attempting to raise their shipping 
prices as customer contracts come up for rene wal, and they are seeing a slight bottom-line 
improvement.  The price for diesel fuel remain s elevated, with most of the increase being 
passed through to customers via surcharges.  We  also heard several re ports about rising costs 
associated with recent changes in environmental and federal safety regul ations. Capital outlays 
are expected to accelerate during 2011, if financing can be obtained.  Spending will be mainly for replacement, although some additions to capa city have been announced.  Hiring has been for 
driver replacement, seasonal work, and maintena nce mechanics.  Wage pressures are emerging 
due to a tightening of the driver pool.   
V-1 
 
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
Overview.  Economic activity has been sending increa singly mixed signals  since our last 
report. The banking sector improved moderately , led by gains in commercial and industrial 
lending. Tourism also strengthened, with holid ay bookings expected to be above year-ago 
levels. Reports on District labor markets were generally positive; however, employment agents 
noted that some manufacturing clients were cau tious about hiring. Residential and commercial 
real estate agents generally described ac tivity as mixed. Moreover, manufacturing lost 
momentum, with several contacts noting that demand had leveled off in recent weeks. In 
addition, revenue growth among non-retail service fi rms weakened, and retailers said that sales 
fell over the last month as shopper traffic dr opped sharply. Manufacturing firms reported that 
input prices grew at a faster  pace since our last report, but  pass-through was limited and price 
growth at services firm s remained moderate.  
Manufacturing. District manufacturing cooled in May after expanding for seven 
months. Several textile and appa rel contacts describe d their business as being unpredictable, 
with “very little depth.” Similarl y, a producer of coated  steels mentioned th at, although the first 
quarter had been fairly str ong, order volume had been going dow n since then. Also, a supplier 
of specialty materials reported that his busine ss had leveled off in recent weeks because demand 
for his customers’ goods had slow ed. Several contacts stated that  the disruptions in Japan had 
affected automotive deliveries, due to lack of electronic components a nd paints. Firms reported 
that their customers were strongly resisti ng any price increases, despite knowing that 
commodity prices were rising. Ou r latest manufacturing survey revealed that prices of raw 
materials rose notably over the last month, but prices of  finished goods were up only 
moderately. 
V-2 
 
Retail. Retail sales generally slowed  since our last report. Se veral firms attributed the 
slowdown to higher gasoline prices. A central Virginia retailer not ed that, even though 
consumer confidence was good in the area, buying be havior was “tentative, as customers’ needs 
were superseding their wants,” driving stores to  compete aggressively on price. Apparel and 
general merchandise retailers reported soft sa les, and a large bookseller in central North 
Carolina stated that sales had w eakened over the last month. In contrast, a store manager at a 
big box discount store in Virginia Beach said sale s had improved in the last month and that the 
store was hiring again. Most auto dealers that we  contacted cited flat-to- stronger sales, despite 
scattered reports of inventory or  parts shortages caused by the Japanese crisis. Grocery sales 
remained solid, and several contacts reported pass ing through price increase s to their customers. 
A number of surveyed wholesalers reported fast er revenue growth in recent weeks. Durable 
goods wholesalers generally note d a pick-up in revenues despite  the reported ongoing slump in 
retailers’ big-ticket sales. Retail prices edged up, and wages were little changed.  
Services.  Contacts at non-retail services fi rms reported somewhat slower revenue 
growth in recent weeks. Executives at severa l healthcare facilities noted flat demand for 
services over the last month. One hospital admini strator also expressed uncertainty about the 
financial effect on his ho spital of the increase in “newly insured” populations under healthcare 
reform. He noted significant challenges for smalle r, rural hospitals with respect to information 
technology investments needed to secure fe deral matching opportunities. In contrast, 
professional, scientific, and tec hnical firms that we survey repo rted slightly quicker revenue 
growth. Price growth at servic es firms was mild, while wage increases were widespread. A 
healthcare system executive in central Virginia re ported that salary pressu res were being driven 
by shortages in some specialties.   
V-3 
 
Finance.  Lending activity posted modest but broa d-based gains across the District over 
the last few months. Commercial and industr ial lending expanded, especially for capital 
equipment and storage facilities. Several commun ity bankers also cited increasing loan demand 
from small businesses. These borrowers had new orders from large manufacturers, who were subcontracting to keep up with demand. Consum ers were starting to use credit cards again, 
according to several lenders, and were increasingly seeking financing for autos and home improvements. However, a contac t at a large bank in North Ca rolina reported making very few 
home equity loans, and most bankers reported se eing little new mortgage lending activity. Most 
lenders cited improvement in their balance sh eet quality, with delinque ncies and charge-offs 
down markedly. 
Real Estate.  Residential real estate agents in the Fifth District gave varied reports. An 
agent in the D.C. area described the housing market  as “terrific,” noting that April produced the 
highest number of sales since June  2005, with the excepti on of last March and April, when sales 
were boosted by the first-time buyer program. In Richmond, however, a contact mentioned that 
unit sales had dropped quite a bit,  along with foot traffic. Sale s in the lower-price range were 
reported as faring much better than sales in the upper ranges. A Realtor in Richmond said that 
sales of homes in the $400,000 to $1 million price range had increased compared to a year ago. 
He pointed out, however, that sa les were contingent on the hous es being in perfect condition, 
with extremely competitive prici ng. While most contacts reported  that they had not seen any 
change in the proportion of dist ressed sales, one agent noticed an increase of short sales and 
stated that the entire short sale process rema ined a major issue for buyers. On balance, most 
contacts said that transacti on prices had either flattened or continued to decline.   
V-4 
 
Commercial real estate activity was mixed across market segments and geographic areas 
of the District over the last month. Pockets of m odest strength were noted in demand for retail 
space in the Hampton Roads area, as gains in reta il sales in recent months bolstered retailers’ 
confidence, according to a local R ealtor. A West Virginia Realtor reported that the leasing of 
office space had picked up, but both retail and in dustrial demand remained stagnant. However, 
the demand for office space in Baltimore was described as “spotty at best” by one Realtor. A central Virginia Realtor noted improved commer cial leasing activity and modest gains in 
demand for the retail space, but leasing of i ndustrial space was unchanged over the last month. 
A North Carolina Realtor reported modest, but widespread improvements in leasing, while 
several contacts in the DC area ci ted mostly softer leasing activity over the last few weeks. 
Contacts generally characterized re nts as having stabilized, and several Realtors stated that 
banks were more willing to lend than earlier in  the year. A Maryland contact in commercial 
construction stated that area contractors were una ble to increase prices due to weak demand, but 
subcontractors were having more success at passing though increases in  commodity costs. 
Labor Markets.  Labor conditions were fl at to slightly stronger since our last report. 
Several employment agents were upbeat, but note d localized areas of softness in demand across 
the District. Some employment ag ents indicated that they were placing more permanent workers 
than they were a year ago. However, a branch ma nager of one agency in Raleigh said that some 
manufacturing clients remained cautious about hiring decisions due to the instability of 
incoming orders. A Hagerstown agent said, “Growt h is not surging forward quite as much as a 
few months ago, but we are still seeing growth in demand compared to a year ago.” He noted, 
however, that gains were somewhat uneven beca use the demand for extra workers seemed to 
come and go within short time frames, indica ting volatility in his cl ients’ own sales and 
V-5 
 
production. Retailers made few hiring changes in  recent weeks, following an extended period of 
payroll cuts, according to recent survey particip ants. However, the store manager at a chain 
discounter in North Carolina remarked that a local manufacturer had begun recalling laid-off 
workers, which included some store employees; because the manufacturing wages were more 
attractive than what he could offer well-qualifi ed applicants, he will cover the vacancies with 
more hours for seasonal workers. Services prov iders continued to a dd employees, although the 
overall pace of hiring in the s ector slowed from a month ago. 
Tourism.  Tourism in the District continued to  show signs of improvement in recent 
weeks. Airport contacts in  Maryland and Virginia reported st rong business travel since our last 
report. In addition, recreational industries, restaurants, and hotels noted stronger revenue 
growth, according to our contacts. A contact on the North Carolina coastline told us that tourist 
activity had increased compared to year-ago  levels, and house rentals were up as much as 20 
percent or higher in the last few weeks. A touris m contact in Washington, D.C. reported that the 
number of incoming tour buses was unusually hi gh, and the nation’s capital expected more than 
500,000 tourists on Memorial Day weekend. 
Agriculture. Rain and below-average temperatures  hindered cotton planting in South 
Carolina and delayed corn and soybean planting in  parts of Virginia and West Virginia. In 
contrast, cotton planting was almost complete  in Virginia and planting of peanuts was 
progressing on schedule. In Maryland and Virg inia, vegetable grower s continued to plant 
summer crops and harvesting of greens and st rawberries was well underway. Moreover, an 
analyst in Maryland noted that a large amount of good quality hay had been cut and baled, due 
to good drying conditions. In addition, pastures continued to green-up. La stly, peach conditions 
V-6 
 
in South Carolina and West Virginia ranged from fair to excellent, with most orchards in good 
condition.    
  
VI-1 
 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
Summary.  Sixth District business co ntacts reported that economic activity moderated 
somewhat in April and May.  Retailers experien ced a deceleration in sales and traffic, which 
they attributed to periods of  adverse weather and high gasoli ne prices.  Tourism-related 
spending, however, increased across all segm ents of the industry.  Homebuilders noted 
continued low levels of sales and constructi on, while brokers cited modest improvements in 
sales and traffic.  In spite of declines in resi dential inventories, prices  also decreased for both 
new and existing homes.  Commercial contract ors reported that new construction activity 
remained weak.  Overall, the ma jority of manufacturers continue d to report increases in new 
orders and production.  Auto manufacturers, ho wever, reduced production because of supply 
constraints stemming from the Japa nese earthquake.  The late Apr il tornadoes in several states 
and flooding on the lower Mississi ppi River had a significant impa ct on economic activity in the 
directly affected areas, but no major damage to the energy or transportation infrastructure was 
reported.  Bankers reported that loan demand had improved slightly from weak levels.  Labor 
markets continued to improve gradually across the District.  Firms expressed concern over 
rising commodity costs as margins remained ti ght and productivity gains became more difficult 
to realize. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Most District merchants signaled a deceleration in 
sales in April and May after moderate increases earli er in the year.  Retailers said that periodic 
adverse weather conditions and high gasoline prices combined to dampen sales across the 
District.  Contacts reported th at they continued to manage inventories tightly.  The outlook 
among District retailers remained optimistic.  Au to dealers noted both declining inventories and 
firm demand.   
VI-2 
 
Tourism activity improved further throughout th e District.  Occupancy and room rates 
were boosted by increases in both business and le isure travel.  Conven tion and cruise bookings 
have increased as well.  Overall, contacts in the travel industry remained optimistic.  Several 
restaurant contacts report ed that sales were somewhat softer and that higher food prices had led 
to tighter margins.  
Real Estate and Construction.  District homebuilders indica ted that new home sales 
and construction remained at very low levels  in April and May.  Se veral Alabama builders 
reported that in many areas repairs and rebui lding from the April tornado damage was 
underway.   
District residential brokers indicated that ex isting home sales growth remained slightly 
ahead of the year-earlier level, but softened somewhat from Ma rch to April.  However, the 
majority of Florida brokers continued to experi ence gains.  Florida contacts again noted that 
distressed sales and cash buyers were  significant drivers of activity.   
Both residential builders and brokers indicated that housing inventories eased on a year-
over-year basis.  District brokers noted more modest pri ce declines than earlier this year, while 
most builders continued to cite downward pressu re on home prices.  Brokers reported that buyer 
traffic improved, while builders indi cated weaker buyer interest.   
Nonresidential construction activity remain ed at low levels during April and May.  
Commercial brokers indicated that  most markets continued to stab ilize, but the pace of activity 
remained slow.  Growing demand for apartm ents spurred an increase in multifamily 
development in several parts of the region.  Overall, commercial c onstruction activity is 
expected to remain at low leve ls for the rest of the year. 
VI-3 
 
Manufacturing and Transportation.  District manufacturers not ed an increase in new 
orders and production in April and May.  The majority of contacts planned to increase 
production in the short-term.  The exceptions we re auto producers and parts suppliers that 
experienced input constraints stemming from the Japanese earthquake.  However, these contacts 
reported that lost production would be made up late r in the year as supply  channels returned to 
normal.  District ports reported increased volum es in cargo and shipments.  Air cargo contacts 
noted that tonnage was returning to near pr e-recession levels.  Railway firms cited strong 
increases in exports of chemicals, coal, and ot her energy-related products to China and India.  
The flooding of the Mississippi River is not expect ed to cause long-term disruptions to maritime 
traffic.    Banking and Finance.  Businesses outside of the construc tion and real estate segments 
reported a slight improvement in credit availabi lity.  Banking contacts remarked that business 
loan demand had improved modestly, but new firm s had difficulty qualifying for credit because 
of their inability to meet cash flow requirements.  Bankers indicated that consumer loan demand 
remained flat as consumers continued to pa y down equity and consolidate debt.  Credit 
availability for auto loans continued to improve.  Some firms continued to  rely on cash reserves 
for capital expenditures and expansi ons.  District banks also noted  an increase in credit requests 
from agriculture customers. 
Employment and Prices.  Labor markets continued to improve gradually across the 
District.  Most business contacts planned to either increase staff levels or leave them unchanged.  
Firms that plan to increase employment were doing so in response to increased demand and 
because they have maximized productivity with thei r existing staff.  Staffing agencies continued 
to experience high demand for temporary worker s as well as an increase in temp-to-hire 
VI-4 
 
positions.  Some contacts reported difficulty finding qualified candidates to fill specialized, 
higher skilled positions, especia lly in healthcare and communica tions/technology sectors.  Firms 
that are not increasing employme nt cited high operating costs and uncertainty about future 
demand as constraints to hiring plans. 
Firms' expectations for unit cost increases have moderated slightly  since the beginning 
of the year as their outlook for la bor and benefits costs were revi sed down.  However, prices of 
commodity-linked materials continued to rise and downward price pressures from productivity 
gains were noted as tapering off.   District contacts continued to report that margins remain 
squeezed and their ability to ra ise selling prices was mixed. 
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  The number of rigs operating in the Gulf of 
Mexico is at roughly half the pre- Gulf of Mexico oil spill level.   Several energy infrastructure 
manufacturing firms noted an increase in cap ital investment.  The Mi ssissippi River flooding 
has caused minor disruption to ri ver traffic, which, in turn, ma y affect production in some oil 
refineries and chemical plants.  The interruptions  are expected to be s hort-lived, and there are no 
reports of damage to transporta tion or energy infrastructure.   
Much of the District experienced difficult  weather conditions in  April and May.  An 
abnormally cold, wet spring and severe storms ha ve delayed planting in some areas.  Producers 
of poultry, cattle, and timber experienced losses as a result of the tornadoes as well.  Many 
farmers in Mississippi and Louisiana are ex periencing some degree of flooding from the 
Mississippi.  Prices for many of th e District's agricultural produc ts remained strong, particularly 
cotton, soybeans, and beef, although the recent record-high cotton pr ices have declined because 
of some pull back in global demand.   
VII-1 
 
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO  
Summary .  Economic activity in the Seventh Dist rict expanded more slowly in April 
and May. Growth in consumer spending was slow er, while the rate of increase in business 
spending was steady. Manufacturi ng production grew more slowl y, and construction was again 
subdued. Credit conditions continued to improve . There was some further pass-through of 
higher commodity prices to downstream prices. Planting of corn and soybeans was delayed by 
wet and cool weather. 
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending increased at  a slower rate than during the 
previous reporting period. Retail ers reported that sales were mo stly flat. Higher food and energy 
prices caused consumers to make fewer shopping trips and purchase fewer discretionary items. 
Auto sales edged up, as higher demand for passenger cars offset a slight decline in sales of 
trucks and SUVs. Auto dealers reported that thei r inventory levels of small passenger cars were 
starting to come under pressure due  to higher than anticipated dema nd for fuel efficient vehicles 
and production disruptions related to  the situation in Japan. Dealers of Japanese vehicles expect 
that supply problems will continue to affect thei r inventory levels for the remainder of the year. 
These supply constraints were noted to be causing used car prices to rise, as well as benefitting 
passenger vehicle sales of the Detroit automakers. Quality improvements were also said to have 
put the Detroit 3 in a bett er competitive position.  
Business spending.  Business spending increased at a steady pace in April and May. 
Inventories were little changed on balance. Howe ver, a few manufacturers in the auto industry 
said they had increased inventories to guard  against potential future supply disruptions 
stemming from the situation in Japan. Contact s indicated that capital expenditures were 
proceeding as planned, with some manufacturers reporting a slight  increase in capacity. There 
VII-2 
 
also was a pick-up in merger a nd acquisition activity in the ma nufacturing sector. Labor market 
conditions improved with conti nued strength in manufacturi ng, where contacts again cited a 
shortage of qualified ap plicants for highly skilled trades. A large staffing firm reported that 
billable hours ticked up and permanent placemen t activity continued to increase. However, 
demand for temporary workers softened in some regional labor markets and remained slow in 
some industries, such as finance.  
Construction/real estate .  Construction activity was ag ain subdued in April and May. 
Single-family home construction continued to be constrained by the overhang of distressed 
properties in the resale market. However, existing home sales picked up in parts of the District, 
lowering the inventory of unsold homes to a degree.  In the multifamily sector, the rental market 
continued to improve. Residentia l rents rose further, and cred it has become increasingly more 
available for the purchase of apartment build ings. With minimal single-family and condo 
development planned in the Distri ct, contacts expect to see an increase in the construction of 
apartments in the near future. Nonresidential  construction edged up with stronger demand from 
the automotive industry, small retail projects , and renovation. Contacts indicated that while 
more private sector building projects are comi ng up for bid, stiff competition continues to put 
downward pressure on pricing. Furthermore, while  public sector projects remain a source of 
strength, they are becoming smaller. Commercial r eal estate conditions were  little changed, with 
vacancy rates steady and landlords keeping comme rcial rents low to maintain occupancy at 
existing levels. 
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing production growth sl owed from the previous reporting 
period, although contacts expected the recent slowdown would be temporary with conditions 
expected to rebound in the coming months. Capacity  utilization in the st eel industry was only 
VII-3 
 
marginally lower; and while other manufacturers of  industrial metals noted a softening in orders 
for second quarter delivery, several also indicated  that order books for third quarter delivery 
were more positive. A contact speculated that th e recent volatility in industrial metals prices 
was leading some customers to delay orders, ex pecting lower surcharges in the coming months 
and to avoid getting caught holdi ng inventory at elevated prices . Manufacturers of construction 
materials and household goods also reported a declin e in activity. In contrast, orders for heavy 
trucks, agricultural and construction equipmen t were up. Fleet replacement and robust activity 
in oil and gas extraction were cited as reasons for the continued strength in demand for heavy 
equipment. Supply chain disruptions reduced activ ity in the automotive sector, but mostly for 
the Japanese automakers and their suppliers. Dist rict automakers were able to avoid the most 
severe dislocations by reallocating parts to ve hicles that are in high demand and implementing 
contingency plans for alternative supply sources.  Contacts indicated that while it remains to be 
seen how effective these measures will be  over an extended period, these supply chain 
adjustments were occurring at a faster rate than  previously expected. In  addition, a contact noted 
that some automakers and their suppliers ar e moving planned summer shutdowns forward into 
June to give supply chains time to repair a nd thus be in better position for a ramp up in 
production in the third quarter.  
Banking/finance .  Credit conditions continued to improve in April and May. Corporate 
funding costs for a number of large firms in th e District decreased, a nd contacts noted that 
liquidity in corporate credit markets remains ampl e. Banking contacts report ed a slight increase 
in business loan demand. Although much of this continued to be refina ncing of existing debt, 
contacts noted that they were starting to see more new commercial and industrial loans in the 
pipeline. Credit availability, however, remained an  issue for some small business borrowers. A 
VII-4 
 
contact noted that larger banks ha ve recently begun to return to small business lending, but that 
the loan capacity of community banks who have traditionally se rviced this segment is still 
impaired. Outside of banking, conditions in the municipal bond market improved and there was 
an increase in investment activity by hedge f unds, venture capital firm s and other forms of 
private equity.  
Prices/costs .  Cost pressures increased in April before subsiding some in May. Food and 
energy prices ended the period mostly lower, as di d prices for steel, copper, and other industrial 
metals. Despite the recent declines, commodity pr ices remain elevated, and surcharges for fuel, 
metals, and other commodities increased signif icantly during the report ing period. Lead times 
also continued to be longer than normal, and shortages of some raw materials were reported. 
Pass-through of higher costs to prices furthe r downstream remained moderate. Retailers 
reported that they were unable to pass along mu ch of the recent increas e in wholesale prices; 
and in many cases, were trying to compensate for the impact of higher food and energy prices 
on consumer budgets by increasing promotions a nd discounts. Retail contacts also noted that 
margins were tight, particularly for grocery stor es, and further increases in costs would likely 
need to be passed along. Wage pressures remained moderate. 
Agriculture .  Corn and soybean planting lagged the pace of last spring in the District, as 
excess precipitation and cool temp eratures slowed field work. Pl anting conditions were best in 
Iowa and Illinois, where planted acres had caught up to five-year averages after a slow start. 
The emergence of corn and soybean plants was behind normal, except in Iowa. The poor start to 
the growing season reduces the yiel d potential of the Di strict corn crop. Even so, there is still 
the chance of a very large crop. Agricultu ral commodity markets were choppy during the 
VII-5 
 
reporting period. After peaking ea rlier this year, corn, soybea n, and wheat prices ended down. 
Cattle and milk prices edged lo wer, while hog prices edged up.  
  
VIII-1 
 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
The economy of the Eighth District has contin ued to expand at a moderate pace since 
our previous report. Manufacturi ng activity has continued to increa se since the previous report, 
while activity in the services sector has declined . Retail sales increased in April and early May 
over year-earlier levels. Similarly, auto sales increased over the same period. Residential real 
estate activity has continued to  decline, and commercial and i ndustrial real estate market 
conditions have been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of large District banks saw little 
change during the first quarter of 2011 comp ared with the fourth quarter of 2010. 
Consumer Spending 
Contacts reported that retail sales in April and early May were up, on average, over year-
earlier levels. About 48 percent of  the retailers reported increases in sales, while 36 percent saw 
decreases and 16 percent saw no changes. Roughly 41 percent of the retaile rs noted that sales 
levels were below their expect ations, 35 percent repor ted that sales met expectations, and 24 
percent reported that sales were  above expectations. About 32 perc ent of the retailers noted that 
their inventories were too high, while 20 percent reported that their inventories were too low. 
The sales outlook for June and July was mostly  optimistic: About 60 percent of the retailers 
expect sales to increase over 2010 levels, while 24 percent expe ct sales to decrease and 16 
percent expect sales to be similar to last year. 
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in April and early May were up, on 
average, compared with last year's sales. About 58 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 29 pe rcent saw decreases and 13 per cent saw no changes. About 38 
percent of the car dealers noted th at used car sales had increased re lative to new car sales, while 
VIII-2 
 
21 percent reported the opposite. Also, about 29 percent of contacts reported an increase in sales 
of low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while le ss than 4 percent reported the 
opposite. About 57 percent of the car dealers surv eyed reported that th eir inventories were 
below desired levels, while 9 percent reported th at their inventories we re too high. The sales 
outlook for June and July was generally optimistic: About 58 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2010 levels. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity has cont inued to increase since ou r previous report. Several 
manufacturers reported plans to  open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a 
smaller number of contacts reporte d plans to close plants or redu ce operations. Firms in the tire, 
powder coating, food, paper, packaging, machin ery, automobile, and ship manufacturing 
industries reported plans to expand existing operations and hire new workers. In contrast, a firm 
in paper manufacturing announced plans to clos e a plant and lay off employees. Additionally, 
some automobile manufacturers have reduced th eir production because of a shortage of parts 
sourced from Japan. 
Activity in the District’s services sector  has declined since our previous report. 
Numerous casinos in the District have been fo rced to temporarily close because of flooding on 
the Mississippi River. Additionally , contacts in the telephone cal l center, health care, business 
support, and support activities for transportation industries reported plans to decrease operations 
in the District and lay off employees. In co ntrast, a contact in th e nursing care industry 
announced plans to expand operati ons and hire new workers. 
Real Estate and Construction 
VIII-3 
 
Home sales continued to decline throughout mo st of the Eighth District. Compared with 
the same period in 2010, April 2011 year-to- date home sales were down 11 percent in 
Louisville and Memphis and 19 percent in St. L ouis and Little Rock. Residential construction 
also continued to decrease throughout the Di strict. April 2011 year-to-date single-family 
housing permits decreased in the majority of the District metro areas co mpared with the same 
period in 2010. Permits decreased 33 percent in Little Rock, 42 percent in St. Louis, and 25 
percent in Memphis and Louisville. 
Commercial and industrial real estate market  conditions were mixed. Compared with the 
fourth quarter of 2010, first quarter 2011 suburban office vacancy rates increased in St. Louis, 
decreased in Little Rock and Louisville, and remained constant in Memphis. The downtown 
office vacancy rates increased in Louisville and St. Louis, decreased in Memphis, and stayed 
the same in Little Rock. Industrial vacancy rates decreased for Louisville, Memphis, and 
St. Louis but increased for Little Rock. Co mmercial and industrial construction activity 
remained slow throughout most of the District. Contacts in Little Rock noted that commercial 
construction has remained fairly weak. Contacts in St. Louis and northwest Arkansas also noted 
weak commercial construction activity. In contra st, some contacts in southwestern Illinois and 
Kentucky noted that overall cons truction has increased recently.  
Banking and Finance 
A survey of senior loan officers at a samp le of large District banks indicates little 
variation in overall lending activ ity in the first quarter of 2011 re lative to the fourth quarter of 
2010. During this period, credit standards for commercial and industrial loans remained 
unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from  unchanged to moderately stronger. Credit 
standards for commercial real estate lo ans were unchanged, while demand ranged from 
VIII-4 
 
unchanged to moderately weaker. Meanwhile, cred it standards for consumer loans remained 
unchanged, while demand ranged from about the same to moderately stronger. Credit standards 
for residential mortgage loans ranged from unchanged to somewhat tighter, while demand 
ranged from moderately weaker  to moderately stronger. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Heavy rain and flooding on the Mississippi River during April a nd early May slowed 
down field work and affected cr op conditions in the District. Th e rates of completion for the 
planting of corn, cotton, rice, so rghum, and soybeans were behind their 5-year average in most 
District states; crop emergence was generally behi nd schedule as well. At least 67 percent of the 
winter wheat crop was rated in fair or better c ondition across the District  states. Similarly, 88 
percent or more of pastures were rated in fa ir or better condition. Mo nthly coal production for 
April 2011 was 2.6 percent lower compared with April 2010. 
  
IX-1 
 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
Economic activity in the Ninth District grew  steadily since the la st report. Increased 
activity was noted in consumer  spending, tourism, services , commercial construction, 
manufacturing, and energy and mining. Residential construction and real es tate and agricultural 
activity decreased, while commercial real estate activity was flat. The job market continued to 
strengthen moderately since the last report, while wage increases continued to be modest. 
Significant price increases were  noted for wholesale items, but  retail price increases were 
moderate. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending grew moderately. A major Minneap olis-based retailer reported that same-store 
sales in March and April increased 2 pe rcent compared with a year earlier.  Sales and traffic have 
generally been higher than a year  ago at a Montana mall, but were  softer in mid-May. Sales and 
traffic are about even with a year ago at a S outh Dakota mall, according to the manager; cool 
weather seems to have slowed apparel sales. An auto dealers association in North Dakota forecasts 
a 10 percent increase in vehicle sales for 2011. 
While spring tourism activity was soft in many areas due to cold and rainy weather, 
tourism officials were optimistic for the summ er season. Based on summer reservation levels, 
the outlook for Minnesota tourism businesses wa s upbeat. Spring tourism activity was slow in 
the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, but inquiries fo r summer travel options were up, according to 
an official. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction activity increased in Ap ril. The value of commercial building permits 
in April increased from the same period a year earlier in both the Si oux Falls, S.D., and Fargo, 
IX-2 
 
N.D., areas. A data center in the Minneapolis area plans an expansion due to strong demand. 
Residential construction decrease d from last year. The value of residential building permits in 
April dropped 27 percent from the same period a year earlier in th e Sioux Falls area; in 
Minneapolis-St. Paul, the value of permits dropped si gnificantly from a year ago. 
 Commercial real estate mark ets were steady since the last report. According to industry 
analysts in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, office vacancy rates declined slightly, retail vacancy 
was flat and industrial vacancy  rates did not change much. Home sales during mid-May in 
Minneapolis-St. Paul were down fr om last year’s tax-credit-dri ven sales, while new listings 
increased. April home sales in Billings, Mont., also  decreased from last year’s tax-credit-driven 
sales, while the number of homes available for sale increased. Meanwhil e, the number of homes 
for sale in both Sioux Falls and Fargo was down from a year ago. The inventory of homes held 
by lenders in Minneapolis also increased. Multif amily housing vacancy rates declined, and rents 
increased over the past few months. 
Services 
Professional business services firms reported increas ed activity since the last report. Preliminary 
results of a mid-year business outlook poll by the Minneapolis Fed found that professional 
services respondents expect to in crease sales and profits over the next year after gains during the 
past 12 months. The survey also revealed that ac cess to bank credit over the past three months 
has improved, leading businesses to plan expa nsions and increase cap ital expenditures. An 
environmental consulting firm noted a strong increas e in orders from the public sector and slight 
increases from the private sector. Information technology contacts noted an increase in activity 
over the past two months.  
Manufacturing 
IX-3 
 
Manufacturing activity increased si nce the last report. A May surv ey of purchasing managers by 
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed incr eases in manufacturing activity in Minnesota, 
South Dakota and North Dakota. A Sioux Falls manufacturer of electro nics and aerospace 
products is expanding its operati ons. A bank director reported that manufacturers saw higher 
productivity and increased their equipment purchases. 
Energy and Mining 
Activity in the energy and mining sectors incr eased since the last report. Late-May oil 
exploration activity increased fr om early April, and two natu ral gas processing plants are 
planned in North Dakota. Wind-energy developm ent projects continued since the last report; 
however, a $400 million wind-power project in North Dakota was canceled because of potential 
threats to endangered birds. Iron ore mines in northern Minnesota are operating at full capacity. 
A mining company is in the early stages of expl oring a potential $1.5 bil lion taconite mine and 
processing plant in northern Wisconsin. Metals  prices remained strong, and Montana mines 
were operating at near capacity. A potential gold/zinc mine in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula is 
under consideration. 
Agriculture 
District agricultural pr oducers were hampered by continued poor weather conditions. Wet fields 
kept spring plantings of corn, wheat, soybeans and sugar beets well behind their five-year 
averages in late-May. Prices for most District  agricultural commodities increased since the last 
report, including corn, wheat, ca ttle, hogs, eggs and soybeans. Poultry prices were flat, and 
dairy prices decreased slightl y. Of respondents to the Minnea polis Federal Reserve’s first 
quarter (April) Agricultural Credit Conditions  Survey, 83 percent reported increased farm 
IX-4 
 
incomes in the previous three months; 57 percen t thought incomes would in crease in the next 
three months. 
Employment, Wages and Prices  
The job market continued to strengthen moderate ly since the last report. According to the 
preliminary results of the Minneapolis Fed’s mid-year outlook poll, 30 percent expect to 
increase full-time employment at their firms over the next 12 months, while 22 percent will 
decrease staff. Some district companies report ed difficulty finding workers to fill information 
technology jobs, certain health care occupations  and skilled manufacturing positions. A North 
Dakota agricultural producer noted a short supply of qualified ag ricultural implement 
mechanics and technicians. An online retailer wi ll add 200 jobs in Nort h Dakota. In Minnesota, 
a communications firm announced plans to hire 4 50 workers for a new call center, a health care 
company will hire 100 more employees and a po wer generation firm will add 90 employees. In 
contrast, a defense contractor said it will cl ose an operation affecting 100 workers, a meat 
producer will lay off 90 employees and a health care organization will lay off 70 workers.   
Wage increases continued to be modest. A ccording to the preliminary results of the 
Minneapolis Fed’s mid-year outlook poll, 66 percent expect wages to increase 2 percent or less. 
Two placement agencies in Montana reported that  while demand for employment services is up, 
most wage increases have remained below 3 percent. However, some Minnesota small businesses were facing increased wage pressures for professional and skilled labor, but not for 
unskilled labor. 
Significant price increases were noted for wholes ale items, but retail price increases were 
moderate. Bank directors reported a number of input price incr eases, including petroleum-based 
products, some metals, rubber, health insurance a nd food. Prices of large tires for mining and farm 
IX-5 
 
machinery increased over 50 percent recently. Mi nnesota gasoline prices were down from recent 
peaks, but were still over $1 per ga llon more than a year earlier.
X-1 
 
TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
 
Growth in the Tenth District economy remained  solid in May.  Consumer spending grew 
further, and transportation and high-tech firms reported genera lly strong activity.  The energy 
industry continued to expand at a robust pace, a nd agricultural activity was mostly positive with 
generally favorable growing condi tions and rising farmland values .  Bankers reported mostly 
steady loan demand, better loan quality, and risi ng deposits.  Growth in manufacturing activity 
slowed somewhat but remained modestly expansi onary.  Residential and co mmercial real estate 
activity was generally stable but  still slow.  Business contacts  were mostly optimistic about 
future sales, and a number of firms reported incr eased capital spending and hiring plans.  Prices 
rose more slowly, but wage pressures were limited  outside of select indu stries and occupations 
with labor shortages. 
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending continued to grow solidly, and most contacts 
expected further growth in the months ahead.  Retail sales accelerated and nearly all retail 
contacts reported that sales were above year-a go levels.  Sales of apparel and seasonal garden 
supplies were noted as particularly strong, while a few contacts characterized sales of appliance 
and some high-end items as weak.  Store inve ntories edged higher, bu t most stores were 
satisfied with current stock levels.  Auto sales continued to increase, but the pace slowed somewhat from the previous survey.  Auto inve ntories declined furthe r, and several dealers 
reported additional supply constraints due to the natural disaster in Japan.  Restaurant sales were strong, and travel and tourism activity remained  favorable.  Most restaurant and tourism 
contacts expected solid ac tivity heading forward.   
X-2 
 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.   Growth in District manufacturing 
activity slowed following rapid growth in recent  months, while other business activity expanded 
further.  Factory orders declined after surging earlier in the spring, but factory hiring continued 
at solid rates and firms remained relatively optimistic about future sales.  Growth in 
transportation activity accelerated from the prev ious survey, and most firms reported optimism 
about future sales.  The majority of high-tech services firms reported st rong growth in sales, 
though the pace slowed a bit from the previous  month.  Capital spending plans improved for 
transportation companies, and high-tech and manuf acturing firms also reported fairly solid plans 
for future expenditures. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential and commercial real estate activity was 
stable but still generally slow.  The decline in housing starts leveled off in May, and new home 
construction activity was similar to year-ago le vels.  Expectations for future homebuilding 
improved from the previous survey, and materi als were generally available.  Residential 
construction supply firms reported an uptick in sa les, partly driven by demand for storm related 
items such as roofing and decking materials.  Home sales were higher than the previous month 
but lower than a year ago.  Exp ectations for future home sales were modestly positive, but home 
inventories climbed higher and home prices conti nued to edge down in most areas.  Mortgage 
lending activity improved from the previous survey but was well below year-ago levels, 
particularly for refinancing activ ity.  Commercial real  estate activity was mostly flat, though it 
was slightly stronger than a year ago and c ontacts had a more positive outlook for future 
months.  Vacancy and absorption ra tes were steady but expected to  improve.  Office prices and 
rents declined and were below year-ago levels in most cities.  One contact noted continued 
obstacles in financing, and another firm said  projects have decreased  in overall size.  
X-3 
 
Banking.  Bankers reported generally stable lo an demand, increased deposits, and 
improvements in loan quality.  Ov erall loan demand was stable to slightly lower in some cases.  
Demand for commercial and residential real es tate loans was generally unchanged, while 
demand for commercial and industrial loans and c onsumer installment loans decreased.  Credit 
standards largely remained unchanged in all major loan categories.  Deposits increased for the 
third straight survey.  Bankers reported improve ments in loan quality compared to a year ago, 
and the outlook for loan quality was more favorab le.  The majority of bankers expected bank 
employment to remain unchanged over the ne xt year, citing low e xpected growth, cost 
constraints, and uncertainty a bout regulations and government policies as the major reasons 
restraining hiring plans. 
Energy.  Energy activity continued to expand str ongly in May.  Nearly all contacts 
reported an increase in drilling activity and were optim istic about the months ahead.  Crude oil 
prices remained elevated and favorable fo r drilling, and natural gas activity rebounded 
somewhat with a recent uptick in prices.  Contacts reported th at shortages of equipment and 
labor continued to somewhat restra in the rate of increase in drilling activity.  Several companies 
have expanded their capital expenditure plans, mainly for projects directed towards drilling and 
exploration.     Agriculture.  Rising farm income spurred record hi gh farmland values and cash rental 
rates.  Crop prices rose furthe r with higher export demand, especi ally from China. Record pork 
exports bolstered hog prices, but increased cow slaughter and weaker than usual demand for 
grilling cuts dampened cattle prices. Many producers used cash rather than debt to pay for 
higher input costs, and farm e quipment sales remained robust.   Agricultural growing conditions 
varied in May. Recent heavy rains held up the st art of the winter wheat  harvest with early 
X-4 
 
reports of below-average yields in drought-stricken areas. Despite planting delays due to wet 
fields, the corn and soybean crops were progressing normally.  
Wages and Prices.  Price levels generally rose at a slower rate in May, and wage 
pressures were mostly contained despite solid  hiring plans.  Manufact uring price increases 
remained common, but with some slowdown in ma terials price increases and with fewer firms 
planning to raise selling prices.  Construction supply firms also reported a moderation in selling 
price increases, but builder  input prices were considerably hi gher than the previous survey.  
Retail prices increased further and were expect ed to continue rising in future months.  
Transportation firms reported an increase in input  prices, and restaurants said menu prices were 
well above year-ago levels.  Wage pressures were still contained in most industries.  However, 
some firms reported difficulties finding skilled workers and were forced to raise wages, 
particularly in information technology fields.  Hiring plans have improved for most firms, 
particularly those in the energy, information tech nology, health-care, and ma nufacturing sectors.  
  
XI-1 
 
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS   
 
 The Eleventh District economy expanded at an accelerated pace over the past six weeks. 
In particular, energy sector re spondents noted increased activity. Sectors that had previously 
reported weak demand, including accounting, le gal and financial services—as well as the 
construction sector—noted improvement since the la st report. Price pressures remain elevated, 
and more firms expect to add to payrolls in coming months.   Prices    Price pressures remain elevated, according to most responding firms in the 
Eleventh District. Many manufactur ers said they had raised prices  since the last report, but not 
enough to offset raw material cost increases , leaving margins squ eezed. Several responding 
firms said price increases were becoming necessary  to cover previous upticks in fuel, freight 
and or raw materials prices. Mo st construction-relate d manufacturing firms either planned or 
had implemented selling price increases; and cons truction firms expected cost increases to stick, 
noting producers of constructio n-related products could no l onger absorb higher energy and 
freight costs. Several service sector companies reported increased ability to raise prices during 
the past six weeks. Most said the increases were  necessary to cover prev ious increases in fuel, 
freight and/or raw materials prices.  Higher demand for acco unting-advisory services has 
resulted in price increases. Agricultural contacts said crop prices had falle n slightly but remain 
at relatively high levels. Retail ers said prices increased modes tly over the past six weeks, and 
most expected their selling prices  to remain elevated due to increases in input prices and 
transportation costs.  
The price of crude oil stayed over $105 per ba rrel for much of April before falling back 
under $100 in mid-May. Gasoline prices remained el evated during the reporting period due to 
XI-2 
 
concerns about refinery flooding al ong the Mississippi, according to  contacts. Natural gas prices 
remained low, in a range between $4.15 to $4.30 per Mcf.  Since the last re port, prices increased 
at a strong pace for many important petrochemical products. 
Labor Market   Employment levels rose or held st eady at most responding firms. There 
were increased reports of hiring activity compar ed with the previous reporting period. Most 
staffing firms noted strong demand at stable leve ls. Contacts in financial services, auto sales, 
construction and related materials, and transp ortation manufacturing repor ted hiring increases. 
Some high-tech manufacturers noted an increas e in employment for skilled workers. Wage 
pressures were slightly higher,  with increases reported by some  accounting and finance firms. 
Moreover, high-tech respondents noted compensa tion was increasing due to the return of 
bonuses that had been temporar ily halted during the recession. 
Manufacturing   Most construction-related manufactur ers noted a pick-up in demand 
since the last report. So me of the uptick was seasonal and ex pected, but several contacts said 
that it was difficult to separate out seasonal demand from improved business conditions. Public 
projects still account for a large share of orders , but contacts said demand had increased because 
of an acceleration in private pr ojects such as apartment and commercial buildings. The one 
exception was the lumber industry, where respons es mostly reflected weaker conditions over 
the past six weeks.    
Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said sa les and orders remain strong overall, but 
demand was mixed. One source of weakening dema nd was the ripple eff ects of the natural 
disaster in northern Japan as shortages of parts fed into slowdowns in demand for 
complementary parts. Several respondents noted  a broad pickup in consumer demand from 
India and China and, within the US, an increase in demand for products su ch as 3-D televisions, 
XI-3 
 
tablets and smart phones. Contacts also reported an  increase in orders for semiconductors due to 
a pickup in demand from the industria l, medical and auto sectors.  
Reports from most paper manu facturers reflected stable to improved orders stemming 
from broad-based economic strengthening. Transpor tation manufacturing firms said orders were 
strong and several said demand had risen slightly  since the last report.  Respondents in the food 
industry said sales continued to increase at a steady pace over the past six weeks and outlooks 
remained positive. 
Petrochemical firms said supplies were very tight, in part due to restricted capacity 
caused by unplanned domestic plant outages, as  well as reduced production in or near the 
Japanese earthquake zone. Demand remains stro ng for most products, and prices are rising. 
High profits and strong margins fo r ethylene producers have led to announcements of several 
new plants and expansions in the Gulf Coast a nd elsewhere. Refiners re ported extremely strong 
profit margins, and said domestic gasoline i nventories were near th e bottom of the normal 
range.  
Retail Sales   Retail activity increased moderate ly over the reporting period. Looking at 
March and April and smoothing out fluctuatio ns due to the Easter  holiday, demand has 
increased in the low- to mid-single digits over  the prior year. Some c ontacts mentioned gasoline 
prices as a concern but the effect s of elevated prices have been limited thus far. Texas continues 
to perform above the national average, accordin g to one large retailer, and the outlook for 2011 
remains positive. 
Automobile sales continue to improve, but inventories will likely be thin in coming 
months due to the effects of the tsunami on Ja panese manufacturers supply chains.  Contacts 
expect demand to continue improving at a modest pace throughout 2011. 
XI-4 
 
 Non-financial Services   Staffing firms reported growth in  orders has leveled off or 
slowed slightly since the last report, although demand rema ins strong, particularly from the 
energy, healthcare, insurance and banking sectors.  Outlooks are positive, and contacts expect 
demand to remain stable through year-end. Dema nd for accounting services  increased since the 
last report, as is typical for this time of year . Improved demand has helped firms raise fees for 
advisory services. Legal firms noted mostly st eady demand, with some strength in corporate, 
intellectual property litigation, and real estate services.  
Reports from transportation services contacts were mostly positive. Intermodal 
transportation firms noted an increase in cargo volumes duri ng the reporting period. Railroad 
shipments rose moderately, with particularly st rong volume growth in grains, metals, petroleum 
and chemical products. Container trade volumes declined but were up from year-ago levels. 
Growth in small parcel shipments accelerat ed during the reporting period buoyed by demand 
from the wholesale trade and reta il sectors. Airline traffic held steady over the past six weeks. 
Demand for travel within the US and to La tin America was solid, but load factors for 
international flights to and from the Pacific region remained weak. Contacts expect modest 
improvement in airline demand and revenue this year.  
Financial Services    Financial firms reported stea dy overall loan demand. Large banks 
with a national footprint reported some pickup in commercial and indust rial loan demand with 
increased corporate activity, and commercial re al estate (CRE) activity has shown recent 
improvement as well. Regional banks noted that  loan demand remains pretty flat, although 
optimism persists for pockets of homebuilding and some CRE lending across the state. Demand 
for auto and consumer loans declined. Contacts continue to note that loan pricing remains 
XI-5 
 
aggressive amidst a highly competitive lending landscape. Outlooks are generally positive in 
light of better outstanding loan quality and c ontinued slow improvement  in lending conditions.  
Construction and Real Estate   Eleventh District housing cont acts said sales remain at 
low levels, but optimism has increased along with be tter traffic.  Sales ar e expected to improve 
in the second half of 2011. As reported in prev ious reports, sales in the higher price points 
continue to improve. Apartment demand continues to accelerate, and rents have edged up since 
the last report.  
Private nonresidential demand has improved. Le asing activity is growing and there are 
reports that industrial and office construction ar e increasing from very low levels. Sales of 
commercial buildings are also pi cking up across the District.   
Energy   Drilling activity is very strong and growing, according to responding firms in 
the energy industry. A majority of wells being drilled in the United States are directed to oil for 
the first time since May 1995. Cont acts noted Texas is leading the expansion of domestic 
activity, with strong activity in the Permian basin and Eagle Ford Shale. While the majority of 
activity is land-based, work is being re-permitted in the Gulf of Mexico, and service firms noted they are moving workers back into the Gulf ar ea. Respondents also note d that international 
work continues to grow.   
Agriculture    The entire Eleventh District is  experiencing drought conditions, and the 
severity has progressed considerably. About half  of the district is now in exceptional drought, 
the most severe drought classification, up from ze ro percent at the last  report. The outlook for 
the wheat crop is poor and it is likely that the cotton harvest will be down from last year. 
Numerous wildfires have led to an estim ated $20.4 million in ag ricultural losses.  
  
XII-1 
 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
Twelfth District economic activity continue d to expand at a mode rate pace during the 
reporting period of late April through the end of May.  Pri ce increases for final goods and 
services remained limited, and upward pressure s on wages were subdued on balance.  Sales of 
retail items rose further, while demand for busine ss and consumer services was mixed.  District 
manufacturing activity also was mixed but appear ed to expand overall.  Agricultural producers 
reported strong sales, and extrac tion activity rose for providers of natural resources used for 
energy production.  Activity in District housing markets remained lackluster, while demand for 
commercial real estate showed signs of improvement.  Contacts from financial institutions 
reported further increases in loan demand.  
Wages and Prices 
 Price inflation was limited for most final goods and services duri ng the reporting period, 
with the notable exceptions of food and gasoli ne.  Although the prices of a wide range of 
commodities and raw materials remained elevate d, the pass-through to final prices has been 
limited.   For most retail goods and services, tepid demand and robust competition continued to 
hold down final prices.  Upward wage pressures were  quite modest in general.  Although hiring activity has 
picked up, high unemployment and ample labor ava ilability continued to limit the pace of 
overall compensation gains throughout the Distri ct.  The primary exception continued to be 
workers with specialized technical skills, particularly engineers and specialists in information technology, for whom wage gains remained signi ficant in several parts of the District. 
Retail Trade and Services 
XII-2 
 
 Retail sales rose further on balance.  Although consumers’ focus on necessities 
continued, the reports noted a slight shift b ack toward discretionary spending.  Modest 
improvements in sales were reported for discount chains as well as for traditional department 
stores, and inventories generally we re at or near desired levels gi ven the pace of sales, enabling 
many retailers to reduce their relia nce on promotional activities.  Fo r retailers of big-ticket items 
such as major appliances and furniture, however , sales remained somewhat weak.  Similarly, 
sales were largely flat for grocers.  Dema nd for new automobiles continued to strengthen, 
although sales growth was restrained somewhat  by high fuel prices and shortages of new 
Japanese-made vehicles associated with the re cent natural disaster in that country.  The 
availability of used vehicles  tightened further, primarily for imported models, which has 
propped up their sale prices a nd trade-in values.     
 Demand for business and consumer services  was mixed.  Providers of professional 
services such as legal and acc ounting reported little change in activity since the prior reporting 
period.  Sales growth remained st rong in the Internet and digita l media sectors, and demand for 
electricity by businesses and households expand ed further.  Activity waned somewhat for 
providers of transportation serv ices, with contacts noting a slowdown in cargo traffic at 
Southern California seaports.  Health-care providers noted furt her moderation in the demand for 
their services.  Travel activity c ontinued to improve in much of th e District, reflecting growth in 
business travel as well as tourism.   
Manufacturing 
 District manufacturing activity  posted further net gains dur ing the reporting period of 
late April through the end of  May.  Manufacturers of semi conductors and other technology 
products reported continued growth  in new orders and sales as well as high levels of capacity 
XII-3 
 
utilization, with few supply constrai nts arising from the crisis in Japan.  Activity fell slightly for 
metal fabricators, as demand growth eased in the wake of strong gains in preceding months.  
Production rates remained solid for makers of co mmercial aircraft and parts, with modest 
growth in new orders adding to an existing orde r backlog.  Capacity utilization rates dropped a 
bit for petroleum refiners, as domestic demand fo r gasoline stalled in response to elevated 
prices.  Reports from food and beverage manufac turers indicated that demand for their products 
was largely stable or up somewhat.  
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Sales of agricultural products  were robust, and extraction ac tivity of natural resources 
used for energy production expanded further.  Orde rs and sales continued to grow for a wide 
variety of crop and livestock products.  However, c ontacts noted some supply constraints:  input 
costs have risen overall, and unseasonably cold weather delayed the development of some crops 
in California and the Pacific Northwest.  Dema nd for natural gas continued to expand, propelled 
in part by cold spring weather, and  oil extraction ac tivity grew further in response to rising 
overseas demand.   
Real Estate and Construction 
 Demand in District residential real estate  markets was largely unchanged at very low 
levels, while conditions improved slightly in commer cial real estate markets.  The pace of sales 
for new and existing homes in the District contin ued to be very weak on net, with distressed 
properties and entry-level homes reportedly domin ating the sales mix in some areas.  As a 
result, new home construction remained moribund and home prices were stable to down.  By 
contrast, conditions continued to be stronger in apartment markets,  particularly in the Seattle 
area:  rental rates there reporte dly are growing at an annual rate  of 10 to 15 percent, spurring 
XII-4 
 
significant increases in constr uction activity.  Vacan cy rates for office and industrial space 
stayed elevated throughout the District, but further improvements in demand were noted for 
several major markets.  This was particularly  the case in the San Francisco Bay Area and 
Seattle, with revived develope r interest in new co nstruction reported for the latter area.  
Financial Institutions  
 Reports from District banki ng contacts indicated that lo an demand and overall credit 
quality rose modestly since the last reporting period.  Businesses in some areas have exhibited a 
slight increase in their willi ngness to engage in expansionary  capital spending, which caused 
demand for commercial and industrial loans to ri se.  Demand for consumer credit remained 
largely stable.  Despite improvements in overa ll credit quality, lending standards remained 
relatively restrictive for many t ypes of consumer and business loans.  However, contacts 
reported that competition among lenders to extend  credit to well-qualified small and medium-
sized businesses has continued to  intensify, placing downward pr essure on rates and fees.  
Contacts also pointed to continue d growth in venture capital financ ing activity, driven primarily 
by investments in the Internet and digital media sectors.  
 