     
              F o r  use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
              W e d n e s d a y                October 15, 2008 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
  
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
October 2008 
 
     
 
 
 
  
 
  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS 
  
October 2008 
                                
     
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
Summary……………… . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i 
First District - Boston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I -1  
Second District - New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II-1  
Third District - Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-1  
Fourth District - Cleveland …. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-1  
Fifth District - Richmond ……. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-1  
Sixth District - Atlanta ..……. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1  
Seventh District - Chicago … . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-1  
Eighth District - St. Louis …. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VIII-1  
Ninth District - Minneapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-1  
Tenth District - Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . X-1  
Eleventh District - Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1  
Twelfth District - San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XII-1 
 i   
SUMMARY* 
Reports indicated that economic activity w eakened in September across all twelve 
Federal Reserve Districts.  Several Districts also noted that their contacts had become 
more pessimistic about the economic outlook. 
Consumer spending decreased in most Di stricts, with declines reported in 
retailing, auto sales and tourism.  Nearly all Districts commenting on nonfinancial service 
industries noted reduced activit y.  Manufacturing slow ed in most Distri cts.  Residential 
real estate markets remained weak, and commercial real estate  activity slowed in many 
Districts.  Credit conditions were characterized  as being tight across the twelve Districts, 
with several reporting reduced credit availa bility for both financial and nonfinancial 
institutions.  District report s on agriculture and natural res ources were mostly positive, 
although adverse weather associated with hurri canes Ike and Gustav negatively affected 
the South and the Midwest.   
Inflationary pressures moderated a bit in  September.  While several Districts 
noted continuing pass-through of  earlier price increases for metals, food and energy, most 
indicated that cost pressures had eased.  Labor market conditions weakened in most 
Districts, and wage pressures remained limite d.  Several Districts reported lower capital 
spending or reductions in capital spending plan s due to the high level of uncertainty about 
the economic outlook or concerns over  the availability  of credit.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism .  Consumer spending was softer in nearly all 
Districts.  Retail sales were reported to ha ve weakened or declined in Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minne apolis, and Kansas City; Dallas and San 
Francisco cited weak or sluggi sh sales; and Boston and New York indicated that sales 
were mixed and moderately below plan sale s, respectively.  Seve ral Districts noted a 
reduction in discretionary spending by consum ers and lower sales on big-ticket items.  
Several also reported increased activity at discount stores as consumers became more 
price conscious and shifted purchases toward less-expensive brands.  Retailers cited these 
recent sales trends and concerns about cred it availability as r easons for a weaker 
                                                 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chica go and based on information collected on or before 
October 6, 2008. This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside 
the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
 ii   
economic outlook, including a slow holiday season.  Most Distri cts reporting on light 
vehicle sales saw declines, with several District s pointing to reduced cr edit availability as 
a limiting factor for automobile sales. Howe ver, Kansas City, St. Louis, and Chicago 
noted that dealers offering incentive and disc ount programs had seen some positive effect 
on sales.  Tourism was mixed or weaker for tourist destinations on the East and West 
coasts, while both Minneapolis and Atlanta i ndicated that increases  in international 
travelers were helping to offs et lower domestic travel.  
Business Spending .  Hiring and capital spending va ried across Districts.  Labor 
market conditions weakened in most Dist ricts.  Boston, Chicago and Richmond cited 
reductions in hiring or hiring plans.  Atlanta, Minneapolis , Kansas City, San Francisco 
and Dallas all noted some weakening in empl oyment.  However, the demand for skilled 
labor remained strong in seve ral Districts, and Kansas C ity noted market tightness for 
minimum-wage jobs in leisure and hospitalit y.  Several Districts re ported that capital 
spending decisions were being influenced by economic uncertainty.  New York, Chicago, 
Dallas, and San Francisco noted weaker capital spending.  Bost on reported capital 
spending was mixed as firms were cautious  about spending resources.  Cleveland 
reported capital spending remained on plan but  intentions to incr ease outlays have 
declined.  Philadelphia indicated concerns over restrictions in access to credit were 
limiting future capital expenditures for some manuf acturers.  In contra st, Kansas City and 
Chicago reported that capital spending for pr oducers of heavy machinery continued to be 
strong. 
Nonfinancial Services .  Nonfinancial service industries experienced weaker 
activity in most Districts.  Several Districts reported that activity in real-estate and related 
industries such as legal and title services was weak.  New York cited widespread 
deterioration in business conditions. Boston re ported consulting firms were experiencing 
reduced demand for their services from a range  of clients.  Cleveland, St. Louis, and 
Dallas noted slower activity in the transpor tation industry; howeve r, Dallas’ slowdown 
was due mostly to temporary disruptions caus ed by hurricane Ike.  Trucking contacts in 
Atlanta indicated declines in retail, automo tive, and construction-related shipments, but 
increases in energy and farm products.  Mi nneapolis reported continued strength in 
professional business services, while dema nd for professional business services was 
 iii   
down in San Francisco and Philadelphia.  De mand for healthcare-related services was 
strong in Boston, Richmond, and Chicago, but w eaker in St. Louis a nd San Francisco.  
Staffing firms reported lower demand for thei r services in Richmond, Philadelphia, and 
Chicago, but noted steady demand in Dallas.    
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing activity moved lower in most Districts, and 
contacts expressed heightened concern a bout the economic outlook.  Several Districts 
noted that credit conditions we re contributing to a high level of uncertainty on the part of 
contacts.  Declines in manufact uring activity of varying degr ees were reported in Boston, 
New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas  City, San Francisco, and 
Dallas.  Atlanta reported that production re mained at a low level, while Minneapolis 
described conditions as mixed and Philadel phia noted a slight increase in activity.  
Metals-related industries, including the dom estic steel industry, re ported slower activity, 
although overall levels of production were sti ll high in several Districts.  Producers of 
housing-related items, building materials and construction equipment continued to 
experience low levels of demand across the twel ve Districts.  Activity in the automotive 
industry also continued to decline.  Kans as City, Richmond, Philadelphia and Chicago 
reported continued strength in exports.  Ho wever, Atlanta indicated  a decline in export 
orders, reversing a trend of the past seve ral months. Energy-related manufacturers and 
heavy equipment manufacturers with ties to en ergy or agriculture continued to do well in 
most Districts. Dallas and A tlanta reported that hurricanes Ike and Gustav disrupted oil 
production and refining, restric ting the supply of petroleu m and related products and 
leading to gasoline shortages in the S outheast and along the East coast.   
Real Estate and Construction .  Residential real estate  and construction activity 
weakened or remained low in all Districts.  Housing activity was re ported to have moved 
lower in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Ch icago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and 
San Francisco.  While still slow, residential ma rkets showed some signs of stabilizing in 
Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City.  Severa l Districts noted continuing downward price 
pressures and an increasing supply of home s for sale due to rising foreclosures.  
However, the inventory of unsold homes was re ported to have declined in areas of the 
Boston and Atlanta Districts as well as in Philadelphia and Cleveland.  Tighter credit 
conditions were cited as a limiting factor for de mand in several Districts.  Most Districts 
 iv   
reported commercial real estate and constr uction activity had slow ed, with New York, 
San Francisco and Dallas noting the sharpest declines.  In contrast, Cleveland and St. 
Louis indicated steady activity.  Increases in vacancy rates or sublease space were noted 
in Chicago, Boston, New York, Atlanta, and Sa n Francisco.  Several Districts reported 
project delays and cancellations  due to tighter credit conditions and increased economic 
uncertainty.  
Banking and Finance .  Credit conditions tightened  in all the Districts that 
reported on them.  Bank lending was describe d as either stable or lower for both 
consumers and businesses.  Cleveland, Kansas  City, and San Francisco noted that loan 
quality had deteriorated.  Credit standards were tightened, partic ularly for commercial 
and residential real estate loans, in several Dist ricts.  Several also indicated that lenders in 
their District had become more highly cautio us and more conservative.  Richmond noted 
increased scrutiny of loan applications by banks and higher collateral requirements on 
commercial lending, and Cleveland and New York cited increases in loan pricing.  Some 
Districts also mentioned cust omers taking steps to ensure that existing deposits are 
covered by insurance and noted deposit withdraw als after reports of bank closings during 
September.  Liquidity problems in inter-ba nk markets along with a higher cost of funds 
were reported in several Districts.  As a result, Chicago reported that banks were 
increasingly utilizing alte rnative sources of funds lik e the discount window and the 
brokered CD market; and Kansas City noted that banks had become more cautious in 
their liquidity management.  Several District s cited reports from businesses of difficulties 
in obtaining credit.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources .  Agricultural conditions remained 
favorable in most of the Districts reporti ng on them. Corn and soybean harvests were 
somewhat behind schedule in Chicago, St. Loui s, Minneapolis, and Kansas City.  Heavier 
precipitation slowed the harvests in some Di stricts, but aided agri culture in Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas.  Drought continued to be a problem in parts of the Atlanta 
District, and hurricanes damage d agriculture in parts of the Dallas District.  Yield 
projections slipped since the summer, but were  still expected to be near historical 
averages.  Livestock producers faced tighter margins due to high feed costs and problems 
with feed availability in so me Districts.  Most agricult ural product prices fell in 
 v   
September.  Exports continued to boost agricultural demand, while domestic demand 
lagged for some commodities.  Conditions for the energy and mining sectors were 
positive, except for temporary damage to infrastructure from the recent hurricanes.  Disruptions to offshore oil drilling in Dallas were not as extensive as they were after 
other recent major hurricanes.  Drilling in the U.S. increased, especially for natural gas.  
Coal prices were stable, wh ile oil and natural gas prices declined.  Even so, energy 
operations looked to expand in Cleveland, Mi nneapolis, Kansas C ity, Dallas, and San 
Francisco.  In addition, Minneapo lis reported new mining activity.  
Prices and Wages .  Most Districts reported that  cost pressures on prices had 
eased, although a number of Dist ricts noted that the costs of  energy, raw materials, food, 
and transportation remain elevated and margins were tight.   Manufacturers in New York 
said that they plan selling price increases;  but, with activity weakening, fewer other 
businesses anticipate price increases.  Dallas noted that businesses facing softer demand 
plan to pass cost reductions  on to customers, and Cleveland cited a decline in fuel 
surcharges as gasoline prices fell.  Howeve r, respondents in Chicago and Dallas also 
reported that they continued efforts to pass-th rough earlier cost increases.  Philadelphia, 
Dallas, and San Francisco noted increased discounting by retailers; Richmond reported 
that retail prices were rising le ss quickly; and Kansas City re ported only a slight rise in 
retail prices.  On the other hand, retailers in  Chicago and Kansas City expect to raise 
prices further in coming months, and some in San Francisco also antic ipate that the cost 
increases in train will lead to higher reta il prices later this year and in 2009.   Wage 
pressures across the twelve Districts remained  limited outside of skilled labor positions 
that continue to experience high demand, su ch as the energy industry in Cleveland, 
Dallas, and Kansas City. 
 I-1   
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
 
First District contacts indicate that th e pace of activity softened in the third 
quarter, and in some cases deteriorated shar ply in September.  Retail, manufacturing, and 
business services revenues decelerated or de clined relative to year-earlier and quarter-
earlier.  Commercial real estate leasing was similar to the prior quarter but starting to 
weaken.  Residential real estate markets con tinue to slump.  Contact s indicate that credit 
tightness has brought about a halt to nonresiden tial construction and a scaling back of 
other investments. Selling price increases were  less prevalent than in earlier reports.  
Most firms express heightened caution or concern about the outlook for the remaining 
months of 2008 and for 2009. 
Retail.  First District retailers cite mixed sales for August and September, but 
even the majority of those with positive results on a year-over-year basis report a 
softening.  Retailers say that consumers ar e scaling back spending for the time being.  
One respondent observed a shift toward the sale  of private label items, possibly indicating 
a more price-conscious consumer.  Another no ted that consumers ar e still willing to buy 
for the right deal.   
Inventory levels continue to be tightly  managed.  Capital spending reports are 
mixed, with many retailers scaling back on sp ending but a few continuing their projects 
as planned; all contacted reta ilers cite caution on future spending.  Several respondents 
have invoked a “soft hiring freeze, ” while others have recently reduced or plan to reduce 
headcounts.   
While several First District retail respondents have not b een affected directly by a 
lack of credit, some report having difficulty  financing equipment purchases or other 
projects, while others report being able to  borrow funds only very  short-term. Contacts 
who supply the housing industry no te that contractors report ha ving lines of credit pulled, 
and in some cases are hesitant to start proj ects because of funding f ears.  Additionally, a 
few retailers are facing escalated interest rates on the limited funding available.   
Overall, First District retailers are con cerned and cautious in their outlook.  Many 
contacts express the view that improvement will not be seen for at least another six to twelve months. 
 I-2   
 Manufacturing and Related Services.  Most manufacturers and related services 
providers headquartered in the Fi rst District say that third quart er sales trends were either 
in line with or somewhat weaker than earli er in the year.  They express heightened 
concern about the current and upcoming quarters,  especially in light of tight credit and 
what they perceive as deteriorat ing sentiment in the United States.  
Retail- and restaurant-goods manufactur ers report that de mand is faltering.  
Producers of housing-related items say their sales remain subdued, with one indicating 
that business has “hit a brick wall.”  A firm that makes re sidential and nonresidential 
building equipment reports a disappointing respon se to its September promotional event.  
Manufacturers of office equipment and a provide r of business information note that some 
of their financial services customers have gone  out of business, and that their remaining 
customers are reducing or postponing purchases.  In sharp contrast with other segments, 
biopharmaceutical firms continue to expe rience strong double-digit revenue growth. 
Many manufacturers continue to voice c oncerns about elevated materials, 
transportation, and fuel costs, although seve ral now point to mode st retrenchment for 
selected inputs.  About one-third report that th ey raised selling prices  in the third quarter 
or plan to do so in the fourth quarter.  Several firms mention that weaker market 
conditions are likely to constrain their abi lity to raise prices in the coming months. 
Close to one-half of the manufacturing and related services respondents report 
they are likely to cut domes tic headcounts by the end of 2008.  Another one-quarter say 
they will slow their rate of  employment growth. Most cont acts note that upward pressures 
on pay appear to be abating, although one manufacturer reached a wage increase 
settlement with its union that was higher th an anticipated. Firms with largely salaried 
workforces say that labor turnover has decreased  considerably, and that  labor availability 
has improved as a result of layoffs at financ ial services and small biotech companies.  
About one-half of the contacts say they have decided to reduce their capital 
spending in 2009.  Most firms i ndicate that their operations  have not been directly 
affected by a lack of credit.  However, many point to examples of other, mostly smaller 
firms that have had difficulties, or they  express concern about potential future 
vulnerabilities.  For example, one respondent notes that he is tr acking cash flow more 
closely than ever before; another mentions th at his company would not  be able to count 
 I-3   
on its foreign parent as a sour ce of capital if condi tions deteriorate mo re broadly; and a 
third has new doubts about the availability of bank financing for a pending acquisition. Although some manufacturers ci te reasons for expecting their own firm to be in a 
relatively stronger position in 2009 than the se ctor as a whole, almost all respondents 
report that they are bracing for a tou gh U.S. economic environment next year.  
Selected Business Services.  The majority of First Di strict selected business 
services contacts—most of whom are consul ting firms this time—report weaker demand.  
Demand from the airline, pharmaceutical, te lecommunications, retail, and construction 
industries is said to have slowed significan tly. However, demand for consulting services 
from the healthcare sector continues to  be strong, notwithst anding overall economic 
conditions. Looking ahead, half of business se rvices respondents were optimistic—when 
contacted in mid-September—a bout business growth in the fo urth quarter; the other half 
expected flat demand for their services. On e advertising firm an ticipated a double-digit 
year-over-year decrease in demand in 2008. New England consulting firms were expecting to grow next year  but were concerned about how economic pressures would 
affect their clients’ discretionary spending.  
Most business services contacts are no t increasing prices, although consulting 
firms feel upward pressure in compensation co sts, especially for specialized researchers 
and consultants. Headcounts are mostly stab le or down among cont acted firms. Looking 
forward as of mid-September, the majority of respondents planned either to increase 
headcounts slightly or keep them stable next year, but one firm exp ected to continue its 
significant downsizing.  
Commercial Real Estate .  All commercial real esta te contacts report further 
credit tightening.  They indicate that even the most creditworthy borrowers have been 
unable to obtain funding for profitable properties.  Re spondents also report that 
construction loans are non-exis tent and construction activity has ground to a near halt.  A 
mutual bank has capped loan size in order to conserve capital, and is restricting funding 
to refinancing and acquisitions of properties  with reliable income streams by borrowers 
who put in significant equity.  A contact at an asset management firm reports that the 
commercial real estate sales and developm ent market is non-exi stent and not coming 
back any time soon, until the credit crisis can be resolved.    
 I-4   
Leasing market conditions in the major urban centers of New England remain 
relatively stable, but the mood is one of ex treme caution and nervousness.  Reports from 
the Boston, Providence, and Hart ford office markets all indica te that tenants are delaying 
lease renewals to the extent po ssible.  Landlords ar e looking to cut deals to secure tenants 
and minimize losses. While some landowners continue to offer building improvements in 
lieu of rent discounts to lure  tenants, contacts now say that some can no longer borrow 
enough money to take on such projects.  Theref ore, contacts predict th at pressure on rents 
will become more severe as landlords’ opti ons diminish.  Office absorption in Greater 
Boston was negative in the latest quarter, a nd vacancy ticked up “a notch.” A Hartford 
contact expects the supply of s ubleases to rise in the coming quarter.  A southern Maine 
contact sees tenants downsizing.  Absorption also appeared negative in Rhode Island, 
albeit more so in the suburbs than downtown.    
The outlook was characterized as either “g rim” or “extremely uncertain.”  Most 
contacts expect commercial property market s to get worse before they get better.  
Residential Real Estate.  The residential real estate sector continues to struggle 
across New England, and contacts venturi ng a prediction said they anticipate no 
noteworthy improvements in the next year .  August home sales fell 14 percent and 17 
percent year-over-year in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, respectively, and over 30 
percent in Connecticut and Maine.  This wa s the largest decrease in Connecticut since 
1989.  Condo sales dropped 19 percent year-over- year in August in Massachusetts, over 
30 percent in Rhode Island and Connecticut, but only 4 percent in New Hampshire.  
Contacts report a few cases of realtors tryi ng to convince homebuyers not to back out of 
nearly completed deals.  
In August, median home prices decreas ed 8 or 9 percent year-over-year in 
Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Maine, and 15 percent in Rhode Isla nd.  Inventories in 
Massachusetts are said to ha ve come down to a more balanced level.  Median condo 
prices remained flat year-over-year in Ma ssachusetts, while falling 4 percent and 7 
percent in Rhode Island and Connecticut, respectively.
 II-1   
SECOND DISTRICT – NEW YORK 
 
The Second District’s economy has w eakened since the last report.  
Manufacturers report that business activity d eclined moderately in September and early 
October, while non-manufacturing firms report more widespread softening in activity and 
anticipate cutbacks in employment levels. Both manufacturers and other firms report 
some letup in price pressures, though a si zable proportion of manu facturers plan to 
increase selling prices in the months ahead.   
Consumer confidence has recovered somewh at since the last report, though the 
latest survey data were collected prior to much of the recent financial sector turmoil.  Still, retail sales were moderately below pl an in September, though inventories were said 
to be at or near desired levels.  There has also been some pullback in tourism activity in 
New York City.  Most residential and commerc ial real estate markets have continued to 
weaken since the last report; real estate cont acts note that it is too early to gauge any 
potential fallout from the recent financial turmoil.  Finally, bankers report slowing 
demand for home mortgages and consumer lo ans, tightening in credit standards, and 
higher delinquency rates on loans—es pecially home mortgages.  
Consumer Spending.  Retail sales were said to be moderately below plan in 
October, with same-store sales running  1 to  5 percent below a year earlier.  New York 
City continued to out-perform the rest of the region in terms of sales gains.  Inventories 
are reported to be at or near desired levels generally, and pr ices are reported to be steady 
to up moderately.  Consumer surveys indi cate some recovery in sentiment: the 
Conference Board’s survey of Middle Atla ntic residents showed confidence rising 
modestly in August and September after slumpi ng to its lowest level on record in July; 
similarly, Siena College’s survey of New York State residents shows some rebound in 
confidence in the third quarter.  In bo th cases, though, most of the surveys were 
completed prior to the mid-September financial turmoil.  
Tourism activity in New York City has s hown some signs of softening since the 
last report.  After climbing above 90 percent in August, Manhattan’s hotel occupancy rate 
retreated noticeably in September, base d on preliminary figures, slipping below 
comparable 2007 levels.  At the same time, ro om rates rose less th an the seasonal norm 
 II-2   
and were up 6 percent from a year earlier, compared with a gain of 8 percent in August 
and 9 percent in July.  Moreover, a numb er of major hotels in dicate that advance 
bookings—mostly for October and November—ha ve weakened noticeably. Separately, 
Broadway theaters report th at both attendance and total revenues were up roughly 6 
percent from a year earlier in Se ptember, which is a slightly la rger increase than reported 
for August.   
Construction and Real Estate.  Housing markets in the District have generally 
weakened since the last report.  Virtually a ll contacts emphasize that there has been little 
activity in recent weeks and that  it is too early to gauge the impact of the recent financial 
crisis on the market; there were frequent me ntions of both buyers and sellers being in a 
“wait and see” mode.  A contact monitoring Ne w Jersey’s residentia l construction sector 
reports that both new home sales and new cons truction activity were exceptionally weak 
in August and that prices have continued to  decline, with builders increasingly offering 
steep discounts.  The inventory of homes on the market remains fairly high, though two 
contacts note that many sellers are discreti onary and would take their homes off the 
market before reducing the asking price substa ntially.  A number of contacts in northern 
New Jersey estimate that single-family home prices are down 20 to 25 percent from their 
peak levels; one contact notes somewhat steep er declines in pri ces for townhouses and 
condos.  Housing markets on New Jersey’s Gold Coast (near Manhattan), where both 
multi-family development and apartment sales and prices had been showing some resilience, are reported to have weakened recently.    
New York City’s co-op and condo market al so showed signs of softening in the 
third quarter: prices were still reported to be  up slightly from a year earlier, but lower 
than in the second quarter.  Moreover, sa les activity weakened  noticeably, and the 
inventory of unsold units, though still fairly low by historical standards, was up an 
estimated 35 percent from a year ago.  Manhattan’s rental market was steady to 
somewhat softer in September: on average, rents were running 4 to 5 percent lower in 
September than a year earlier, while the i nventories of available rental units and the 
vacancy rate have been relatively stable.   
Commercial real estate mark ets in the New York City area have also weakened 
noticeably.  In Manhattan, leading brokerage  firms report that office vacancy rates 
 II-3   
climbed about ½ point in September and were up  for the quarter as a whole.  Asking rents 
retreated but were up modestly from co mparable 2007 levels; however, an industry 
expert notes that asking rents are overstating ac tual market rents, due to both the mix of 
available space becoming more upscale—with financial firms pulling back—and  landlords becoming increasingly willing to negotiate and offering more concessions.  
Suburban office markets also showed some so ftening during the thir d quarter, though to a 
lesser extent than in Manhattan; asking rent s have generally remain ed stable outside New 
York City. Finally, an expert on Manhattan’s hospitality industry notes that hotel development has slowed: developers that ha ve yet to begin physical construction are 
largely unable to get financing to go forward and most such projects are being curtailed. 
Currently, no new developments are being started.   
Other Business Activity.  New York State manufactur ers report that business 
activity weakened moderately in September and early October.  Contacts report some 
decline in new orders but steady employment le vels.  Manufacturers report some letup in 
price pressures, though close to half of thos e contacted plan to increase their selling 
prices in the months ahead.  While a larg e number of manufacture rs report tightening 
credit conditions and increased borrowing co sts, more contacts say that their own 
borrowing needs have diminished than increased .  General weakness is also reflected in 
goods distribution: a trucking-i ndustry contact reports that this pre-holiday season is 
shaping up to be the weakest in a long time.  Credit availability is not reported to be a 
major issue, and truckers are getting some re lief from declining diesel prices, with few, 
thus far, scaling back fuel surcharges.  Ho wever, these positive industry factors are more 
than being offset by the general falloff in business.  More generally, non-manufacturing 
firms in the District report widespread de terioration in general business conditions and 
declining business activity; a growing proporti on also indicate recent job reductions, and 
a majority now expect job cutbacks in the months ahead; these firms’ capital spending plans have also weakened fairly dramatica lly.  Non-manufacturing firms report continued 
price pressures, but a declining proportion plan to raise their selling prices in the months 
ahead.  In contrast with manufacturers, contacts at non-manufact uring firms indicate 
somewhat increased borrowing needs, on balance.  
 II-4   
Financial Developments.  Small to medium-sized banks  in the District report 
fairly widespread weakening in demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages, but no change in demand for commercial mortga ges and commercial and industrial loans.  
For all loan categories, respondents indicate a tightening of credit standards—particularly 
in the residential mortgage category.  Responde nts state an increase in  the spreads of loan 
rates over cost of funds in all loan categories except cons umer loans, where they report 
no change.  Finally, bankers report no cha nge in delinquency rates for commercial and 
industrial loans but increase d delinquencies for all ot her loan categories—most 
noticeably in the residential mortgage categor y, where nearly a third of bankers indicate 
higher rates and just 6 pe rcent report lower rates. 
 III-1   
 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Business conditions in most sectors in th e Third District softened from August to 
September. Manufacturers, on balance, reported a very slight increase in new orders but a 
steady rate of shipments. Retailers genera lly posted month-to-month and year-to-year 
declines in sales, as did motor vehicle dealer s. Bank loan volume has been nearly flat in 
recent weeks. Residential real estate sales and construction activity continued to fall. 
Commercial real estate leas ing and construction activity ha ve slowed. Services sector 
firms generally indicated a slowing pace of bus iness. Reports of increases in input costs 
and output prices were somewh at less widespread among business contacts in September 
than they were in August. 
The outlook among Third District busine sses is generally not positive. Although 
manufacturers surveyed in early September forecast increases in business activity during 
the next six months, contacts in other s ectors do not expect improvement. Retailers 
expect a difficult holiday shopping period. Auto dealers see no signs that sales will pick 
up soon. Bankers anticipate slow loan growth  and weakening credit quality into next 
year. Residential real estate ag ents and home builders expect sales to continue to remain 
slow until the latter half of  2009. Contacts in commercial real  estate expect  leasing and 
construction activity to decline during the next several quarters. 
Manufacturing.  Third District manufacturers polle d in early September reported 
a very slight increase in new orders and a near steady rate of shipments, on balance, 
compared with August. Around one-third of th e manufacturers surveyed noted increases 
in those measures and just over one-fourth reported decreases. The slight positive balance of results among firms polled in September was a marked improvement over the negative 
balance in reports rece ived from area manufact urers earlier this y ear. Firms with export 
business continued to see growth in demand fo r their products, and some firms noted that 
previously off-shored work “is returning fr om Europe and China.” In contrast, firms 
producing building materials and constructi on equipment continued to see declining 
demand.  
The outlook among Third District manufact urers surveyed for this report is 
positive, on balance. Nearly one-half of the manufacturers contacted in early September 
 III-2   
 expect new orders and shipments to rise du ring the next six months , and about one-tenth 
expect declines — around the same ratio of positive to negative opinion as reported in 
August. Area manufacturers have boosted cap ital spending plans slightly since last 
month, on balance, although some respondent s noted that “cash flow issues” and 
“restrictive bank lending practices” are limiting expansion in activity. 
Retail.  Most of the retailers contacted for this report indicated the customer 
traffic and sales fell in September compared with the previous month and year. Some discount stores have experien ced increased traffic and sa les, although even in this 
category many stores have had declining sales.  Retailers selling luxury items and higher-
price merchandise have also posted recent sales declines, a change from the relatively stable or rising sales they had earlier this year. Other types of consumer spending have 
fallen in the District. Contact s in the lodging, travel, and re staurant industries generally 
reported significant declines  in business since the last  Beige Book. The outlook among 
Third District retailers is not positive. As one  retailer phrased it, “T he holidays are going 
to be ugly.”  
Auto dealers in the region reported a continuing downward sales trend in 
September. Sales fell compared with the previo us month and year for dealers selling both 
domestic and foreign makes. Inventories were  above desired levels but have not been 
growing, as dealers have been ta king delivery of fewer vehicles. 
Finance.  Total outstanding loan volume at Th ird District banks has been nearly 
flat in recent weeks, according to bankers c ontacted for this report. There has been a 
slight gain in real estate lo ans, but personal and business le nding has been level to down 
for many banks. Most of the banks contacted for this report said that business loan demand was softening. Although most of the su rveyed banks were “actively looking for 
credits” among potential business borrowers, re cent consolidation affecting banks in the 
region has led to some interruption of loan  marketing efforts at those institutions. 
Contacts in the region’s fina ncial services sector indicat ed that deposit growth has 
generally been holding up, although some banks noted a temporary increase in 
withdrawals by depositors following news repor ts of bank closings elsewhere in the 
country. Bankers indicated that nondeposit sour ces of funds have become more costly 
and less readily available. Contact s in residential real estate financing indicated they have 
 III-3   
 had no difficulty funding reside ntial mortgages with good cred it quality and low leverage 
ratios, but contacts in commercia l real estate financing said the availability of funds has 
declined sharply. Looking ahead, bankers expect loan growth to remain slow, and they expect some deterioration in credit quality in  the current quarter th at will continue into 
next year.  
Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity in the Third 
District continued to weaken in September. Residential real estate agents reported that 
sales of existing homes continued on a downw ard trend compared with a year ago, and 
home builders continued to see falling sales of new homes. However, builders have been 
able to reduce inventories by cutting produc tion and boosting incentives to promote sales 
of completed houses. One real estate agent said that most recent sales have been 
“nonelective,” necessitated by changes in se llers’ or buyers’ pers onal circumstances. 
Contacts in residential real esta te expect the decline in sale s and construction to level off 
sometime during the winter, but they do not exp ect activity to pick up until late next year, 
and they expect the recovery to be modest.  
Commercial real estate fi rms indicated that construction, leasing, and purchase 
activity have been trending down since the summer. Rents have been nearly steady, although concessions have increased somewhat. Commercial real esta te contacts reported 
that the number of firms putting off plans to increase space has rise n, although they noted 
that in most markets in the region “the suppl y-demand balance is intact” and is expected 
to remain so unless firms in the region ma ke large cuts in employment. However, many 
contacts expect commercial construction activ ity to decline significantly during the next 
several quarters.  
Services.  Service-sector firms generally report ed easing in growth or declining 
levels of activity in September. Some busine ss services firms indicated that their client 
firms were stepping up efforts to reduce costs by cutting back on their uses of outsourced 
services. Firms providing personnel services not ed that their business has weakened as 
employment in the region has begun to d ecline. The outlook among area service firms 
has weakened since the last Beige Book. Some  consulting and technology firms said they 
expected more demand for their services from companies looking for ways to streamline operations and reduce costs, but most busine ss services firms expect that maintaining 
 III-4   
 current rates of activity or expanding their business during the next  several quarters will 
be “much tougher than normal,” as one contact said.  
Prices.  Reports of increases in input costs and output prices have declined 
somewhat since the previous Beige Book. Firms in the region continued to note pressure 
on their profit margins from high energy and raw material costs. They also reported rising 
prices for petroleum-based products and meta ls.  Retailers have stepped up discounting, 
and many are planning to promote low-cost it ems for gift-giving in the upcoming holiday 
season. 
 IV-1   
 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
 
Overall economic activity in the Fourth District has weakened since mid-August.   
Factory output and steel shipments softened.  Residential constructi on remains very slow, 
with no improvement expected through 2009.  Most commercial builders told us that 
business has been stable.   Sales by District retailers were  characterized as flat to 
declining, while reports from auto dealers indicate that purchases of new cars have 
declined sharply.  The commercial credit ma rket tightened, and consumer lending was 
flat.  Energy production was st eady to increasing.  And the market for freight transport 
services declined.      
On net, reports show a slight drop in employment levels, with wage pressures 
limited to energy producers.  Staffing firms sa w a small increase in the number of job 
openings, primarily in health care and professional business services.  Most 
manufacturers and construction firms reported th at prices for raw materials either held 
steady or moderated slightly.  
Manufacturing.   Output at District factories wa s stable to lower during the past 
six weeks.  Reports of declin ing production were attributed primarily to weakness in the 
auto and construction industries.  On a year- over-year basis, a major ity of our contacts 
said that production was slightly down.  Manuf acturers anticipate th at production will be 
maintained at current levels or weaken duri ng the upcoming months.  Capacity utilization 
was at or below normal levels.  Steel produ cers and service center s reported shipping 
volume was flat to down, which they attr ibuted to a downturn in the auto and 
construction industries.  The strongest e nd users for steel are energy and capital 
equipment producers.  In general, our contac ts believe market conditions for steel will 
change little or weaken s lightly in the upcoming months .  District auto production 
showed a significant increase in August, rebound ing from seasonal plant closings in July 
for new model year retooling.  In terms of  year-over-year compar isons, District auto 
production fell sharply, with domestic make rs reporting steeper declines.    
Capital spending remains on plan; howe ver, the share of respondents who 
anticipate increasing capital expenditures going into 2009 has declined since our last 
report.  Half of our respondents who accessed credit markets told us that they 
 IV-2   
 experienced tighter controls and higher interest rates.  Most manufacturers commented 
that the prices they paid for raw material s had flattened out or declined.  Moreover, 
significantly fewer respondents raised their product prices than reported earlier in the 
summer.  Looking forward, a majority of our contacts expect inflationary pressures to 
remain steady or diminish.  On net, employ ment levels decreased slightly, and wage 
pressures were contained.  Manufacturers anticipate  little hiring in the near future.       
Real Estate.   Residential builders reported that  new home sales continue to be 
very slow.  On a year-over-year basis, sales are steady to do wn.  Looking forward, 
builders are not expecting any industry tu rnaround through 2009.  Further, we heard 
several comments that banks are imposing significantly tighter credit standards on 
homebuilders and buyers.  Little change in ma terials prices was noted, and list prices on 
homes are reported to have dr opped slightly since our last report.  Inventories of new 
unsold homes declined.  Subcontractors are read ily available at very competitive rates.  
General contractors and subcont ractors reported reductions in  staff levels and no wage 
pressures.  
Most commercial contractors told us th at business has been reasonably stable 
during the past six weeks, and they believe that it will remain so through 2009.  Backlogs are relatively strong, and inquiries have been  steady to increasing.  Several contractors 
commented that credit is becoming more restri ctive; nonetheless, financing is available.  
The rate of increase in the prices of building materials is moderating, though fuel 
surcharges remain high.  Contract pricing out side of materials costs remains stable.  
Workforce levels were largely unchange d, and no wage pressure was reported.    
Consumer Spending.  In general, District retailer s reported that August sales 
were flat to declining on a month-over-m onth basis across all industry segments.  
Looking forward, most respondents believe sale s will remain relatively weak.  Reports 
from auto dealers indicate that purchases of new cars have declined sharply over the past 
six weeks, while used car sales are flat to slightly down.  Purchases of SUVs and trucks 
were characterized as poor.  Dealers are ve ry concerned about lower sales volume in the 
coming weeks.  Retailers report that vendor prices have remained stable, with the 
exception of increases for paper and food products .  In response, retail sellers of paper 
products passed through increases to their cust omers.  Capital spending remains on target, 
 IV-3   
 with few revisions planned in the upcoming mont hs.  For the most part, staffing levels at 
retail stores have not changed; however, we heard many reports of auto dealers cutting 
back on their sales and support staffs.  Wage s remain stable in the retail sector.    
Banking.  Demand for business lending has been  flat to down.  Reports of 
increased demand were generally attributed to customers tapping existi ng lines of credit.  
Commercial loan pricing is increasing acro ss the board.  On the consumer side, loan 
demand, including home mortgages, is flat to slightly down, with in terest rates holding 
steady.  In general, regional banks are continui ng to constrict the av ailability of credit—
especially to commercial borrowers, while  community bankers do not foresee much 
further tightening of underwriting standards.  Reports showed that delinquencies at 
community banks are flat to down, while regional banks are e xperiencing an upward 
trend especially for commercial and residential real estate loans, HELOCs, and credit cards.  A majority of our contacts said that core deposits have been steady to increasing.  
However, some community bankers commented that they are losing depositors to large 
banks which are paying higher rates on CDs.  The spread between lending and deposit 
rates at community banks are steady or have widened a few basis poi nts.  At the same 
time, spreads at regional banks are under pr essure due to higher rates paid on time 
deposits.  Staffing levels were stable , and no wage pressure was reported.
   
Energy.   Energy production has been steady to increasing duri ng the past six 
weeks, with most of our contacts expecting pr oduction levels for coal, natural gas, and oil 
to expand during the upcoming months.  Reports indicate that the prices received for oil and natural gas fell significantly, while coal pr ices were stable.  Materials and equipment 
costs remain at elevated levels, especially for petroleum-based inputs and steel.  Capital 
expenditures were on plan, with little change expected duri ng the next few months.  We 
heard several reports of tightening credit ma rkets; however, only one of our respondents 
sees it as a serious issue at this time.  Th ere has been a slowing in  hiring by most energy 
companies from the pace seen earlier in the year ; however, a slight pick-up is expected in 
the near future.  Wage pressures remain an i ssue due to competition for skilled labor.   
Transportation.   Freight transport service co mpanies experienced an overall 
decline in shipping volume since our last report.   Company officials to ld us that the auto, 
consumer products, and housing industries are primarily responsible for the drop-off.  
 IV-4   
 Volumes are expected to flatten out, with little pick-up anti cipated during the next several 
months.  Several contacts commented that fu el prices have declined recently, and their 
declines are reflected in reduced fuel surcha rges.  Capital expenditu res remain on target 
but are at low levels for most companies.  Little change in capital spending is expected 
during the upcoming months.  For the most pa rt, hiring was limited to driver turnover, 
and any wage increases fell within industry norms. 
 V-1   
 FIFTH DISTRICT– RICHMOND 
 
 Overview.  Business contacts indica ted that, on balance, Fifth District economic 
activity weakened towards the end of August and through September.  Retail sales and 
manufacturing activity slowed acr oss most of the District while services firms expressed 
concerns about the future.  One respondent noted reduced credit availability for local 
retailers. Although export volumes remained str ong, activity at District ports cooled a bit 
as contacts noted some fall off in shipments.  Residential real estate activity continued to 
be weak in most of the District as nati onal economic and financial uncertainty lowered 
demand for new mortgage lendi ng.  Commercial lending also cooled as credit standards 
continued to tighten, and commercial leasi ng activity was sluggish, although vacancy 
rates changed little and rents were mostly st able.  Meanwhile, hiring activity contracted 
across the board.  Some input cost pressu res remained for manufacturing firms, but 
overall wage and price pressures abated acro ss District manufacturi ng and service-sector 
businesses.   Retail.  Retail executives and store managers  reported that sales slumped in 
recent weeks, particularly for big-ticket it ems.  The store manager at a chain discount 
retail establishment in central North Carolin a echoed other contacts when he told us 
gasoline shortages in his region were keepi ng many shoppers home during the week.  An 
executive at a hardware chain in central Virginia  told us that the contraction in sales at his 
stores had quickened in recent weeks.  In a ddition, the manager of a department store in 
an upscale mall outside the Washington, D.C ., beltway said that  business was down 
dramatically—as much as 12 to 15 percent sin ce our last report.  In contrast, a large 
department store manager in central West Vi rginia said his store's sales growth was 
"holding up pretty well," although sales th rough his government contracts were down 
slightly.  According to a re tail spokesperson in central Virginia, local companies that 
have long-standing relationships with lende rs cannot get lines of  credit to purchase 
merchandise for next spring; small retailers ar e "just petrified."  Fu rniture, appliance, and 
automobile dealers across the District reported  declining sales.  Re tailers cut back on new 
 V-2   
 hires and wage growth slowed in  the last four weeks.  Reta il prices grew somewhat less 
quickly since our last report.  Services.  A contact at a community services  organization in central North 
Carolina expressed concern about the effects of  recent financial events spreading to both 
his and other businesses in th e region.  Executives at fina ncial services businesses in 
central Virginia, northern West Virginia, a nd Baltimore, Md., said their clients were 
nervous, but most contacts said they were  not seeing outright pa nic.  One financial 
services contact described it as, "Everybody's on the edge of their se ats."  At healthcare 
organizations, contacts saw little change in cu stomer demand in recent weeks, but were 
concerned that continued upheaval  in financial markets would lead to increases in unpaid 
bills or a reduction in elective surgeries.  A business-campus executive said his plans for 
expansion have been "shelved."  Services fi rms trimmed payrolls and wages continued to 
grow about on pace with our last report.  Price growth was contained at services 
businesses.  Manufacturing.  District manufacturers reported th at activity contracted further 
with broad weakness across shipments, new or ders, and employment.  A manufacturer at 
a North Carolina textile plant reported that busin ess at his firm was very slow, noting that 
his patrons were pessimistic and their cust omers (retailers) were extremely cautious.  
Likewise, a manufacturer of  housing goods in North Carolin a said that business had 
slowed even further as his customers had tr immed inventories considerably.  A furniture 
maker in North Carolina told us  that he had experienced th e worst business conditions for 
residential furniture in 40 years and that the outlook for commercial office furniture was 
very bleak because of the industry’s reliance on financial institutions as clients.  Cost 
pressures remained but were less widespread this month.  A producer of housing products 
in North Carolina reported that he had not in curred additional increases in raw materials 
prices over the past month.  He pointed out , however, that his company was only able to 
pass on minimal price increases to customer s and therefore had not passed on the 10-15 
percent jump in input prices of recent months.  Activity at Fifth District ports cooled somewhat in September.  Retail imports for 
the upcoming holiday season were below year -ago-levels at the District’s largest 
container port, and other imports were repor ted to be “down acro ss the board.”  Export 
 V-3   
 volumes remained strong but contacts noted so me fall off in shipments, especially for 
lower end commodities – such as grains and scrap materials – due in part to elevated shipping surcharges.   
Finance.  Residential lending activity remained  soft across most of the Fifth 
District in recent weeks.  Contacts in Richmond, Va., Charlo tte, N.C., and Hilton Head, 
S.C., reported steady but subdued levels of new mortgage activity as home “purchase 
demand stabilized at a very low level,” wh ile lenders in Charlottesville, Va., and 
Greenville, S.C., noted further weakness in demand for mortgage in itiations.  Contacts 
mentioned that a brief flurry of refinanc ing activity occurred in Virginia and the 
Carolinas, though activity quickly reverted back to a tepid pace after a sudden rise in 
interest rates.  Credit standards tightened a bit further as institutions followed new FHA guidelines.  Credit quality varied; some lende rs reported higher quality applicants while 
others noted lower quality as “r ealtors are bringing anybody in.” 
In commercial lending, recent activity wa s stable to weaker.  Contacts cited a 
general “uneasiness” that contributed to “less aggressive lending” practices.  Credit 
standards continued to tighten – some cont acts noted that informal guidelines were 
becoming policy, more due diligence was being exercised for new borrowers, and 
collateral requirements had increased.  Repor ts on credit quality were mixed.  One 
contact noted improved borrower quality result ing from more intens e loan scrutiny, while 
others observed increased stress on the ba lance sheets of their business borrowers.  
Several lenders reported that credit qualit y was holding steady, but they were “watching 
it like a hawk.”   
Real Estate.  Real estate contacts continued to  report weak activity in housing 
markets across the District.  Most contacts re ported very slow home sales with a few 
citing the national financial and economic situation as the reason.  A Richmond, Va., 
Realtor told us that his housing market ha d become “extremely” slow with only a few 
buyers due to the uncertainty of the economy.  The Realtor also noted  that foreclosures 
were on the rise.  Likewise, an agent in Gr eensboro, N.C., said that his housing market 
had been “hit really hard” due, in part, to the deteriorating financ ial condition of a large 
insurance company in his city and a large lo cal bank.  He told us that sales were down 
“tremendously” in all price ranges.  In contra st, an agent in the Washington, D.C., area 
 V-4   
 reported “steady” sales, with  good activity in the middle-pr iced condominiums market.  
House prices slipped a bit in several areas of the District. 
Turning to commercial real estate, leasi ng activity was sluggish across most of the 
Fifth District, especially in  the Washington, D.C., metro area.  Agents in Maryland, 
Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina reported generally soft markets across all 
property types, but a contact in West Virginia noted pockets of healthy activity.  A 
Washington, D.C., agent specia lizing in Class B office space saw firmer demand – partly 
from tenants moving down from Class A space.   Vacancy rates were mostly unchanged, 
although reports indicated an uptick in vacancy  for smaller blocks of office and retail 
space in the D.C. market as some tenants m oved to home offices.  Rents were stable 
across much of the District, but contacts  in Washington, D.C., noted some downward 
pressure.  Sales activity was slow to “non-existent” in Roanoke, Va., Raleigh, N.C., 
Charlotte, N.C., and Columbia S.C., while co mmercial property prices were steady.  In 
recent weeks, new construction was limited to smaller specialty-use properties, and contacts reported hesitancy in their market s as “people are putting the brakes on” deals 
because “there is so much unknown right now.”    
 Tourism.  Reports on tourist activity varied since our last survey.  Along the 
coast, contacts in the Outer Banks of N.C ., Virginia Beach, Va., and Myrtle Beach, S.C., 
told us that bookings were weaker compared to our last report and to a year ago.  
Contacts attributed the softness to Tropi cal Storm Hannah, which reduced bookings in 
the first full weekend of September, and then  to the “Ike Spike” (gas price hike after 
Hurricane Ike).  They also indicated that ec onomic uncertainties this month had taken a 
toll on tourism.  Looking ahead, a hotelier in Virginia Beach, Va., described expectations 
for the next six months as, “not pretty.”  On  a brighter note, cont acts at mountain resorts 
in Virginia and West Virgin ia reported stronger bookings th an a year ago, which they 
credited to group reservations, warm and ear ly fall weather, a nd regional attractions.  
 Temporary Employment.  Fifth District temporary employment agents reported 
lackluster demand for temporary workers in recent weeks.  The low demand for workers 
came from agencies’ inability to recruit clients as well as  the uncertainty and slowdown 
of the economy.  A Raleigh, N.C., agent an ticipated a small increase in demand for 
workers in the coming weeks due to the de sire of many companies to increase their 
 V-5   
 headcount before the end of this calendar ye ar.  Middle management, IT, administrative, 
customer service, sales, and certain specia lty skills were those mo st highly sought from 
industries such as professional servic es, pharmaceuticals, and retail.     
 Agriculture.  Recent weather conditions allowed Fifth District farmers to make 
steady progress in small grain preparation and ha rvesting activities.  In Virginia, the corn 
harvest progressed quicker than expected due  to the generally dryer weather and lower 
than average yields.  The corn harvest in North Carolina was goi ng strong throughout the 
state, while winding down in South Carolina.  In addition, the appl e harvest was seventy 
percent complete in Maryland, and farmers in Virginia and West Virg inia were preparing 
for the soybean harvest which was in fair to good condition.  Hay stocks  in Virginia were 
reported to be short and cattlemen were cons idering other grazing and feeding options.  
In some cases, cattlemen were culling their herd s in order to compensate for the shortage 
of feed.   In contrast, cattle conditions in West Virginia were rated as mostly good with 
pasture conditions reported to  be in fairly good shape. 
 
 VI-1   
 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
 
 Summary.  Sixth District contac ts reported that economic activity weakened 
further in September.  Banking and business contacts indicated that  credit conditions 
tightened, and businesses reported that thei r ability to obtain financing had become 
increasingly difficult.  Labor market conditi ons weakened further in most sectors, and 
consumer spending slowed.  Residential real es tate contacts noted that sales remained at 
low levels and construction declined.  The incr ease in the number of foreclosed properties 
was putting downward pressure on home prices in some Distri ct markets.  Commercial 
contractors noted lower activ ity and an increase in proj ect cancellations.  Most 
manufacturing contacts reported reduced pr oduction levels.  Tropical storms improved 
agricultural conditions in much  of the District, but the energy infrastructure suffered 
damage that curtailed the supply of petroleum and related products to some markets.  By 
most accounts, cost pressures on businesses eased over the month.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Retail sales weakened across the District 
during September.  Purchases of big-ticket it ems, including furnitu re, were especially 
sluggish.  Auto sales declined, and several cont acts reported that sa les were lower than a 
year earlier.  In general, the retail outlook for the upcoming holiday season was subdued.   
 Tourism activity remained mixed in the Di strict.  The region c ontinued to attract 
international visitors, which helped offset  weakness in domestic business and leisure 
travel.  There were several reports of  discounting by hotels and cruise lines. 
 Real Estate and Construction.  Reports from homebuilders and Realtors 
indicated that new and existing home sales re mained weak.  However, several contacts 
noted that activity, although well-below year-earlier levels, was relatively stable in September relative to August.  Reports on in ventories varied acro ss the District, while 
home prices continued to d ecline by most accounts.  Cont acts noted that bank-owned 
homes were putting significant downward pre ssure on home prices in some District 
markets.  According to our contacts, the outlook for residential sales and construction 
activity over the next several months re mained subdued, but further significant 
weakening is not expected.   
 VI-2   
  Most District commercial contractors continued to note declines in activity.  
Projects were being postponed or cancelle d because of funding constraints and weak 
economic conditions.  Several contacts noted that the amount of sublease space available 
rose modestly.  Overall, commercial contra ctors anticipated that  development activity 
would slow further.   
Manufacturing and Transportation.  Most manufacturing contacts reported that 
production levels remained low and new orders  were below year-earlier levels.  Reports 
also indicated that the number of export orders declined in September, reversing the trend 
of recent months.  Many contacts continued to report reductions in employment and 
hours.  Trucking contacts reported lower shipments of retail, automotive, and 
construction-related goods, but noted gains in shipments of coal, minerals, farm products, 
and chemicals.  Manufacturing contacts expect  activity to remain close to or fall below 
current levels over the next six months.    Banking and Finance.  Most banking contacts in the District reported that credit 
conditions were tightened and the volume  of business and consumer lending has 
declined.  Restricted access to consumer cred it is said to be affecting sales of homes, 
autos, and other big-ticket items.  Banks noted  that loan-to-deposit interest spreads were 
widening and underwriting standards have beco me very conservative.  Bank liquidity 
challenges were reported to remain a serious concern.  
 Employment and Prices.  Business contacts repor ted that labor markets 
continued to weaken in September.  Employ ment in most sectors declined across the 
region.  Retail contacts indicated that holiday-rel ated hiring is expected to be weaker than 
last year.  Temporary employment agencies noted  an increase in the number of applicants 
who had recently been laid off from other j obs.  Short-term hurrica ne-related job losses 
were significant in southern Louisiana.     Business contacts noted that price pressu res had eased for both raw materials and 
finished goods.  However, elevated costs of fuel, food and utilities continued to strain 
household budgets.    Agriculture and Natural Resources.  Tropical storms improved agricultural 
conditions in much of the District.  Howe ver, extreme drought conditions remained in 
Georgia and Tennessee.  Citrus growers re ported concerns over weakening prices 
 VI-3   
 because of higher orange juice inventorie s and weaker consumer demand.  Poultry 
producers noted continued strong foreign demand.  However, production growth was 
reported to have moderated as domestic consumption has slowed.    The Sixth District’s energy infrastructu re, a major source of the country’s crude 
oil imports, production, and refining, was nega tively affected by Hu rricanes Gustav and 
Ike.  Although long-term damage to energy in frastructure is expected to be modest, 
electricity outages and lengthy delays in retu rning to operations cont ributed to significant 
short-term declines in oil production and refini ng.  This led to shor tages of gasoline and 
petrochemicals in some areas of the District. 
 
 
          
 
   
 VII-1   
 SEVENTH DISTRICT – CHICAGO 
Summary .  Economic activity in the Seventh District weakened in September, 
and contacts reported heightened concer n about the economic outlook.  Consumer 
spending declined and labor market conditions  remained weak.  Residential construction 
continued to decline and nonres idential construction to sl ow.  Overall, manufacturing 
moved lower, although activity varied by sect or.  Credit conditions tightened further. 
Cost pressures from material and energy pric es remained elevated, while wage pressures 
continued to be low.  The crop harvest was off to a slow start, but yields generally 
appeared in line with historical averages.  
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending declined in September, as households 
continued to tighten their budgets and trade down to less expensive brands. Accordingly, 
discount stores saw small increases in sale s, while retailers in areas such as home 
improvement and clothing experienced declin es.  Similarly, a cont act in the fast-food 
industry reported slightly higher-than-expe cted demand. Light vehicle sales declined, 
although demand for more fuel e fficient vehicles, especially among passenger cars, held 
up better.  Several dealers cited higher sales due  to General Motor’s end-of-month 
incentives; these incentives also resulted in some reduction in elevated light-truck 
inventories. Auto contacts al so reported that consumers we re concerned about the cost 
and availability of credit, and that this had resulted in a decline in credit sales.  
Business spending.  The pace of business spending slowed from the previous 
reporting period.  Several contac ts reported delaying or postponi ng hiring plans or capital 
spending projects given the high level of un certainty surrounding the economic outlook. 
Others noted that they have been carefu lly monitoring expenditures and receivables, 
relying more on maintaining existing equipm ent than purchasing new capital and paying 
down debt instead of spending financial reso urces. However, this sentiment was not 
uniform—notably, capital expenditures by manu facturers of heavy machinery continued 
unabated. Labor market conditions in the District  were little changed, and continued to be 
mixed by sector.  The demand for skilled labor  in manufacturing, healthcare, and some 
professional services remained strong, and a co ntact in agriculture noted that labor was 
more difficult to hire for this year’s harvest.   In contrast, employment in the automotive 
 VII-2   
 and financial services industrie s continued to decline, alt hough some financial contacts 
reported that they were trying to  recruit workers who had last their jobs at other firms.  
Lastly, staffing firms reported a decline in demand for their services given hesitancy by 
clients to engage in long er-term contracts.    
Construction/real estate .  Construction activity remained sluggish in September.  
Residential construction continued its steady de cline.  Project delays and cancellations 
persisted and credit remained tight for new de velopments.  Increases in foreclosures were 
cited by contacts as an impediment to sales of  non-foreclosed home s and in reducing the 
inventory of new and existing unsold homes. Mortgage orig inations remained at low 
levels due to tight credit st andards and a slight increase in mortgage rates in late 
September after a decline earlier in the month. However, contacts noted a slight increase 
in activity among first-time home buyers due in  part to the tax cr edits included in the 
recent housing bill. Nonresidential development and construction continued to slow.  Contacts cited modest improvement in infras tructure spending but ongoing weakness in 
retail and industrial co nstruction.  Furthermore, contact s noted an increase in vacancy 
rates for retail properties and a rise in office sublease space.  Cancellations and delays of 
commercial projects were again reported as  the availability and cost of financing 
continued to be of concern.  
Manufacturing .  Manufacturing activity in the District slowed in September. 
Activity weakened slightly in  the domestic steel industry. Demand continued to be soft 
for medium- and heavy-trucks and for manufact urers with close ties to housing, such as 
construction equipment and materials and home appliances.  Aviation manufacturing 
contacts noted a negative impact from the Boeing strike as well as some recent softening in demand. However, demand for heavy machiner y used in sectors such as oil and gas 
extraction, mining, and agriculture remained  strong.  Manufacturers of pharmaceuticals 
and energy infrastructure and related products also reported strong activity. In addition, 
export-oriented industries continued to perf orm well.  Exporters noted that demand had 
shifted from Europe to developing countries w hose terms of trade with the U.S. remained 
favorable.  Automakers reported further declin es in sales in September, and contacts 
noted some pending plant closings in the District.     
 VII-3   
 Banking/finance .  Credit market conditions in th e District tightened in September 
as liquidity was impaired by concern over in creasing credit risk.  Banks reported that 
access to funds in inter-bank and deposit markets had been limited in recent weeks, leading to increased utiliza tion of alternative sources of  funds including the discount 
window and the brokered CD ma rket. Furthermore, banks re ported increasing their cash 
holdings and shortening the maturity of thei r assets as a contingency against deposit 
withdrawals following reports of bank closi ngs elsewhere in the country. This, in 
combination with ongoing de-leveraging was further reducing credit availability.  
Accordingly, some non-financial contacts expressed reservation over the future availability of bank credit lines. Other fina ncial market participants reported that 
increases in volatility and cr edit risk were boosting borrowi ng spreads in short-term 
money markets and in the markets for longe r-term debt, even for investment-grade 
companies.  Liquidity was also poor in the secondary markets for commercial and 
residential mortgages. Several contacts repor ted increasing difficulty and higher costs of 
obtaining funds through the commercial pape r market. Higher credit costs at the 
financing arms of automakers were making it more difficult for dealers to obtain credit to 
finance inventories. 
Prices/costs .  Despite recent declines in spot  markets, contacts in various 
industries again cited elevated  input costs from various metals, food, and energy.  Several 
contacts mentioned higher utility costs and fuel  surcharges.  In contrast, the price of steel 
and scrap metal declined.  However, a contac t noted that the lengthy period of high steel 
prices had pressured many customers’ profit margins.  More generally, pass-throughs of 
higher costs to downstream prices continued, with some greater impact now being seen 
on prices in retail trade. Wage pressures remained limited outside of skilled labor 
positions that continue to experience shortages.   
Agriculture.   The District harvest started sl owly, lagging behind last-year’s pace 
by two to three weeks. Farmers remained conc erned about the potential impact of frost on 
the yields of replanted soybeans. Corn a nd soybean prices dec lined, but volatility 
remained high over uncertainty about how this  summer’s floods and late planting would 
affect the harvest. Early repor ts about the harvest indicated that corn and soybean yields 
were in a range close to aver age. Heavy precipitation in Se ptember helped crops mature, 
 VII-4   
 but also contributed to relatively high leve ls of moisture in ha rvested crops, requiring 
additional outlays to pay fo r drying. Cooperatives began to  buy 2009 crops; however, few 
farmers were willing to sell at quoted prices. The spreads between futures and cash prices 
for crops were higher than in the past due to  expected increases in transportation costs. 
Contacts suspected that demand for crops stal led during the summer as prices hit nominal 
highs and world demand slowed. In addition to crops, prices for milk, hogs, and cattle 
also fell.
 VIII-1   
 EIGHTH DISTRICT – ST. LOUIS 
Summary.  Business conditions in the Eighth District have continued to 
deteriorate since our previous report.  Manufacturing activity c ontinued to decline, as did 
activity in the services sector.  Home sale s continued to decrease, while activity in 
commercial construction remained mixed.  Total loans at a sample of small and mid-sized 
District banks decreased slightly during the three-month period ending in mid-September.
 Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.  Manufacturing activity has 
continued to decline since our  previous report.  Contacts generally cited weak product 
demand and higher input costs as causes of reduced business activity.  A few 
manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand ope rations in the near future, 
although a larger number of cont acts reported plans to close pl ants and reduce operations.  
Firms in plastic product manufacturing and a small automobile manufacturer announced 
plans to open new facilities in the District and hire additional employees.  Contacts in the 
steel manufacturing and machinery manufactur ing industries reported plans to expand 
existing facilities and operations.  In contrast, firms in the animal 
slaughtering/processing, apparel,  appliance, automotive part s, electrical equipment, 
fabricated metal, plastic products, and truc k transportation manufact uring industries cited 
declining demand and reported plans to la y off workers and decrease operations.  
The District's services sector continued to decline in most areas.  Firms in the 
medical, information, financial, and truck tr ansportation services industries cited weak 
demand and announced plans to reduce their workforce.  A firm in business support 
services announced plans to clos e a facility in the District.  In contrast, a c ontact in truck 
transportation services announced plans to expand facilities a nd hire additional workers.  
A contact in health care services announced plans to move executive employees into the 
District and hire additi onal workers.  Retailers reported  that sales volume remains fairly 
constant, but that consumers have shifted to  lower-priced products.  One major auto 
dealer will close operations in the District and another dealer filed for bankruptcy.  Auto sales were slightly up from a year ago for so me dealers, particularly among those offering 
customer incentives and rebates.  Small cars continued to sell well, but there was slower 
demand for trucks and large sport utility vehicles. 
 VIII-2   
 Real Estate and Construction.  Home sales continued to decline throughout the 
Eighth District.  Compared with the same  period in 2007, August 2008 year-to-date home 
sales were down 16 percent in St. Louis, 20 percent in Memphis, 22 percent in Little Rock, and 24 percent in Louisville.  Resident ial construction also continued to decline 
throughout the District.  Augus t 2008 year-to-date single-family housing permits fell in 
nearly all District metro areas compared w ith the same period in 2007.  Permits declined 
37 percent in Little Rock, 40 percent in Louisv ille, 42 percent in St. Louis, and 57 percent 
in Memphis. 
Commercial construction activ ity remained mixed throughout  the District.  One of 
the Memphis area’s largest commercial contra ctors reported a record level of committed 
projects for 2009.  A contact in  central Arkansas whose fi rm specializes in general 
commercial construction reported that the fi rm’s backlog has decreased from 12 to 6 
months as projects have begun to dry up.  A contact in St. Louis reported that the 
industrial real estate market is  stable and that developers are not overbuilding.  Contacts 
in Memphis reported that the industrial vacancy  rate has remained steady largely because 
of the lack of new industrial construction so far this year .   
 Banking and Finance.  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-
sized District banks decreased 1.0 percent in  the three-month period from mid-June to 
mid-September.  Real estate lending d ecreased 1.5 percent and now accounts for 73.5 
percent of total loans.  Commercial and i ndustrial loans decreased 0.8 percent, accounting 
for 16.9 percent of total loans.  Loans to individuals, account ing for 5.1 percent of loans, 
increased 4.1 percent.  All other loans increased 1.4 percent and accounted for 4.5 percent 
of total loans.  Over th is period, total deposits at  these banks were flat. 
 Agriculture and Natural Resources.   Recent heavy rains throughout many parts 
of the District have delayed crop harvests.  At the end of September, the overall corn, 
soybean, sorghum, cotton, and rice harvests were behind their normal paces.  Since our 
previous report, overall crop c onditions have deteriorated s lightly.  Yield estimates of 
corn and soybeans in both Indiana and Kentuc ky, corn and rice in Missouri, and corn and 
tobacco in Tennessee declined from August to September.  Yield estimates for corn, soybeans, sorghum, rice, cotton, and tobacco in the remaining District states that grow 
those crops stayed the same or increased.
 IX-1   
 NINTH DISTRICT – MINNEAPOLIS 
 
Ninth District economic activity slowed si nce the last report . Decreased activity 
was noted in consumer spending, construc tion and real estate, and agriculture. 
Manufacturing was mixed. Increases in activit y were noted in tourism, services, and 
energy and mining. Labor markets weakened sin ce the last report. Ov erall wage increases 
were moderate, while prices for some products decreased.     
 Consumer Spending and Tourism.  Consumer spending declined since the last 
report. September same-store sales at a majo r Minneapolis-based retailer were expected 
to have decreased 2 percent compared with a year ago. An apparel retailer based in 
Minnesota noted that recent slow mall traffi c was hampering sales. Two restaurants and a 
coffee shop recently went out of business in St . Cloud, Minn. A representative of an auto 
dealers’ association in Montan a noted that vehicle sales ha ve slowed, particularly among 
SUVs and trucks with lower gas mileage. In  addition, some dealers noted that customers 
were having difficulty obtaining credit. A Mi nnesota auto dealer noted that September 
sales were down 20 percent from a year ago. In  a late September e-mail survey of District 
business contacts, about half of retailers noted that sales decreased recently, while 30 
percent reported increases. 
In contrast, traffic at a Minneapolis area mall improved in August and September. 
A mall manager in Bismarck, N.D., reported so lid sales in August and September. Retail 
sales were up in the Upper Peninsula of Mi chigan and Fargo, N.D., in part due to 
Canadian shoppers.  
Tourism activity was up slightly from a y ear ago; however, spending was soft in 
some areas. A bank director noted that late  summer and early fall tourism conditions in 
northern Minnesota were solid. A South Dakota tourism official repor ted that visits in 
September were up about 2 percent compar ed with a year ago, although camping and 
retail spending were soft. Restaurant and hotel  usage in southwestern Montana were on 
par with last year, but over all tourism-related spending wa s lower. A Minnesota-based 
travel agency is expecting weak business through the rest of 2008 because of slow 
corporate and leisure travel. 
 IX-2   
 Services.  Activity in the services sector was up slightly since the last report. 
According to the e-mail survey, 46 percent of  service industry contacts reported recent 
sales increases, while 32 percent saw decrease d sales.  Professional business firms were 
the most optimistic, while architects and financial services firms were the most pessimistic. Meanwhile, 24 percent of the re spondents from financial services firms 
reported less credit availability compared with 2 percent who repor ted increased credit 
availability. 
Construction and Real Estate.   Construction activity decreased since the last 
report. According to the e-ma il survey, 78 percent of constr uction industry contacts said 
recent sales at their firms were down; 11 pe rcent reported increases. A Minneapolis-St. 
Paul commercial developer mentioned severa l large projects that were halted in mid 
construction. Several contractors reported re luctance to offer bids due to uncertainty 
about future materials prices. The home-bu ilding slump continued. The value of August 
residential permits was down 15 percent and 36 percent, respectively, in Minneapolis-St. 
Paul and Sioux Falls, S.D., from a year earlier.  
Overall real estate activit y was slower. Among industry respondents to the e-mail 
survey, 43 percent said recent sales were dow n and 14 percent said they increased, while 
48 percent said credit was less available and none reported more cred it availability. In 
contrast, a commercial broker in  Bismarck, N.D., said the mark et for office and industrial 
space there remained strong. Reside ntial real estate remained sl ow. Sales in most District 
markets were down. However, pending sales in the Twin Cities at the end of September 
were above year-earlier levels, a nd about level with two years ago. 
Manufacturing.  Overall manufacturing activity was mixed since the last report. 
A September survey of purchasing manage rs by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) 
indicated increased activity in the Dakotas  and decreased activity in Minnesota. 
According to the recent e-mail survey, 41 per cent of the manufactur ing industry contacts 
reported recent sales increases, while 38 per cent saw decreased sales.  Several lumber 
mills across the District recently cut produc tion due to decreased demand. Production is 
down significantly at a Minnesota construc tion materials producer. In contrast, a 
Minnesota machining company said, “Busine ss is good and growing.”  A Montana pipe 
 IX-3   
 maker is expanding production due to incr eased demand from the energy industry. A 
South Dakota mining equipment maker is adding production space.  
Energy and Mining.  Activity in the energy and mi ning sectors increased since 
the last report. Oil and gas exploration conti nued at a strong pace. Expansions of several 
large wind farms are under way across the wester n portion of the District. Growth in the 
mining industry continued since the last repor t; in Minnesota, a larg e ore-to-steel plant 
broke ground and a planned copper mine  might break ground next year.   
Agriculture.  Agricultural conditions decreased from a year ago. Prices for hogs 
and many District crops decrea sed from the last report. For most of the major District 
crops, harvest is behind the pace of a year ago. However, solid yi elds and production are 
expected although not as la rge as year ago levels.  
Employment, Wages and Prices.  Labor markets weakened since the last report. 
Minnesota’s unemployment rate reached 6.2 percent in August, the highest rate since the 
mid-1980s. A Minnesota temporary work servic es agency noted that billed hours were 
down about 15 percent in September compared  with a year ago. A county in Minnesota 
has eliminated more than 200 positions due to impending budget shortfalls. An airplane 
manufacturer eliminated 100 jobs in Mi nnesota and North Dakota. A Minnesota 
manufacturing firm related to the housi ng industry recently laid off 45 full-time 
employees. Two Montana timber mills recently laid off about 35 workers each. The e-
mail survey showed that 24 percent of res pondents expect to hire additional workers 
during the fourth quarter, while 23 pe rcent expect to decrease staff.  
Overall wage increases were moderate. A temporary work services agency noted 
that employee wages were stable. According to respondents to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) 
Area Business Outlook Survey, 66 percent exp ect no change in employee compensation 
over the next six months. 
Prices for some products decreased. Mi nnesota gasoline prices were down 55 
cents per gallon from their peak in July, but  were still 72 cents pe r gallon higher than a 
year ago. Prices for copper and aluminum decreased during the past month. A Minnesota 
restaurant owner noted that prices for beef, chicken and dairy were still at high levels. 
While health insurance rates were up about  6 percent compared with a year ago, the 
 IX-4   
 increase was smaller than the past few years. Winter heating bills in Minnesota are 
expected to increase 10 percent to 15 percent.
 X-1   
 TENTH DISTRICT – KANSAS CITY 
 
Economic growth in the Tenth District sl owed in September after posting stronger 
growth in the previous survey period.  Overall, consumer spending weakened and 
expectations for future sales softened.  Manufacturing production and orders received 
declined modestly despite solid export activit y.  Residential and comm ercial real estate 
activity slowed, partly due to worsening cr edit conditions. Bankers reported tighter credit 
standards, lower loan demand, and weaker loan quality.  Th e energy sector expanded and 
agricultural conditions were fa vorable, despite lower commod ity prices.  Inflationary 
pressures were more subdued as fewer manufact urers reported gains in  input and finished 
goods prices. Wage pressures ease d amid softer labor markets. 
Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending weakened in September and was 
expected to ease further in comi ng months.  Retail sales fell afte r a modest rise in the last 
survey period.  Store managers reported h eavy traffic at discount retailers, while 
department stores continued to struggle.  Trucking companies noted lighter shipments as 
retailers planned to stock less holiday merchandise.  Auto sales leveled off after several 
months of decline, partly due to aggre ssive incentive and discount programs.  Auto 
dealers noted an uptick in used car sales, es pecially for fuel efficient models.  Auto 
dealers also anticipated further tightening in credit conditions that would dampen sales.  
Tourism activity slowed as vacation travel  waned and hotels reported fewer business 
travelers.  Air travel remained strong in Denver, but passenger tr affic slowed in other 
District markets.  Restau rants noted fewer patrons. 
Manufacturing.  Manufacturing activity declined  modestly after rebounding in 
the previous survey period.  Production of durab le goods held steady, while output fell at 
plants producing non-durable goods.  Orders, shipment volumes, and order backlogs 
declined, stabilizing inventory levels.  Expor t activity remained solid.  One District 
contact reported a lack of sh ipping containers for perishable  goods.  Some plant managers 
reported delivery disruptions due to Hurricane  Ike.  Expectations  for future factory 
activity dropped sharply as ma nufacturers anticipated furthe r slowing in orders. Capital 
spending plans were largely unchanged although several agricultural equipment 
manufacturers announced future plant expansions.   
 X-2   
 Real Estate and Construction.  Residential and commercial real estate activity 
slowed in September.  The residential hous ing market remained weak despite a brief 
summer uptick in sales.  Prices  have declined in markets not  heavily tied to agriculture 
and energy.  Inventory levels remained well above year-ago levels even though the 
number of residential building permits cont inued to trend down.  Real estate agents 
reported more demand for lower priced hom es, especially from investors who were 
interested in buying rental prope rties.  Tighter credit conditio ns were expected to further 
hamper sales as the market enters a seasonal slowdown in activity.  While mortgage originations for home purchase s declined, District contacts  reported that the number of 
borrowers refinancing their mortgage loans, e ither for cash-out or to lower their monthly 
payments, rose in September.  Commercial real estate activity slowed further as the 
number of sales dropped desp ite modest price declines.  Increased equity requirements 
and more difficulty accessing credit meant so me construction projec ts were placed on 
hold or cancelled.  Rental rates stabilized, but were expected to decline due to an 
anticipated rise in vacancy rates. Absorpti on rates declined furthe r and remained below 
year-ago levels. 
Banking.  In September, bankers reported lower loan demand, tighter credit 
standards, and weaker loan quality.  Dema nd fell for all major loan categories, with 
commercial real estate and resi dential real estate loans showing the greatest declines.   
Nearly three-fourths of bankers reported ti ghter credit standards for commercial real 
estate loans, up from half of respondents in the previous  survey.  Almost half of 
respondents reported tighter standards for co mmercial and industria l loans, up from a 
quarter in the previous survey.   Banks al so reported some tightening of standards for 
consumer and residential real es tate loans, though not as much as for commercial loans.  
Assessments of current loan quality were weak er than in the previous survey, and banks 
were also more pessimistic about future lo an quality.  Bank deposits increased, and a few 
banks noted that inflows of  funds under the FDIC insurance limit were making up for 
outflows of funds above the limit.   When as ked about the recent financial turmoil, most 
banks said the crisis had caused them to become more cautious in their lending and 
investment and liquidity management. 
 X-3   
 Energy.  Energy activity strengthened further in the survey period, even with 
lower energy prices.  The number of active drilli ng rigs in the District rose to a record 
high in September, driven by greater expl oration in New Mexic o.  Energy demand was 
expected to strengthen with the winter heating season.  Producers expected drilling 
activity to hold at elevated levels in th e coming months.  Wyoming coal production was 
up in September, as well as year-to-date.  Energy companies reported that financing 
remained available, but shortages of e quipment and qualified workers persisted.  
Expansions in bio-fuels produc tion slowed with lower gasoli ne prices and relatively high 
crop prices. 
Agriculture.  Agricultural conditions remained favorable in September.  The corn 
and soybean harvest has begun and initial repor ts indicated above av erage yields.  The 
harvest, however, was behind schedule due to late planting that delayed crop maturity.  
Winter wheat planting was progr essing on schedule.   Exports of U.S. beef and pork rose, 
but high feed costs squeezed profit margins fo r livestock operators. Agricultural loan 
demand rose further with high input costs.  Th e funds available for loans held above year-
ago levels.  Farm income expectations a nd capital spending plans moderated with crop 
prices dropping below summer highs.  Farmland values held steady.  
Wages and Prices.  Since the last survey period, price pressures have lessened 
and wage pressures eased.  Fewer manufactur ers reported price in creases for both raw 
materials and finished goods and expectations for future price increases waned. Still, 
most plant managers reported that input pr ices remained well above year-ago levels.  
Retail prices rose only slightly, but were expected to increase further in the coming 
months.  Agricultural producers expanded thei r operating loans to pre-pay higher input 
prices.  Restaurants planned to raise menu pr ices in response to higher food costs. Fewer 
firms expected to hire workers and most di d not anticipate raising wages in light of 
weaker labor markets.  The labor market re mained tight, however, for skilled jobs in 
manufacturing and energy firms, as well as minimum-wage positions in the leisure and 
hospitality industry.  
 XI-1   
 ELEVENTH DISTRICT – DALLAS 
  
The Eleventh District economy slowed ma rkedly in late August and September. 
Many businesses were affected  by temporary production disr uptions caused by hurricanes 
Gustav and Ike. In addition, softer demand a nd increased uncertainty  caused some firms 
to reduce investment and payrolls. Moreover, a number of contacts reported recent credit 
market developments had led them to re-evaluate future plans amid slower growth nationally and internationally. Outlooks were more pessimistic than in the last survey, with respondents citing many “ unknowns” on the horizon.     
Prices.  Reductions in energy and commodity pr ices eased cost pressures in many 
industries, and transportation expenses were less of a concern than in recent surveys. 
Fewer firms reported pass-thr oughs, although several were s till trying to recoup cost 
increases from earlier in the year. Some res pondents in industries with soft demand noted 
recent cost reductions will be passed on to cu stomers, and retailers were offering more 
favorable promotions. Construction contacts said high costs remain  a major issue, but 
some expect costs to edge down as  the number of pr ojects ebb.   
Crude oil prices fell from $115 per ba rrel in mid-August to below $100 by the 
first week of October. Natural gas prices al so edged down, in part due to high inventory 
levels. Despite a brief spike during recent st orms, the national average price of gasoline 
fell about 11 cents per gallon, and diesel  about 24 cents, durin g the survey period. 
Contacts expect soft demand for petrochemicals to lead to weaker prices for ethylene and 
polyethylene in coming weeks.   
Labor Market.  The labor market loosened sligh tly over the past six weeks, and 
wage pressures were mild. While most Dist rict respondents said employment levels 
remained steady, there were reports of layoffs  in several industries, including primary and 
fabricated metals, residential constructio n-related manufacturing and auto dealers. 
Contacts said skilled financial employees were  easier to come by, a result of mergers in 
the financial industry. Staffing services firm s said orders for direct hires were down, 
although temp activity was holding up.  
Pockets of tightness remain, however. Labor  shortages are prevalent in the energy 
sector, and firms continue to steal worker s from other industries. Some manufacturing 
 XI-2   
 respondents still reported difficu lty finding workers with highly specialized skills. Driver 
shortages persist, although lowe r diesel prices were entici ng some drivers and operators 
to return to work. Staffing firms noted  difficulty filling upper-level positions.  
Manufacturing.  Many  Eleventh District manufacturer s reported interruptions in 
business activity from hurricanes Gustav and Ik e.  In addition, the credit market squeeze 
added uncertainty to company outlooks.   
Producers of residential construction pr oducts said new orders and shipments 
continued to fall due to worrisome conditions  in housing markets. One company had laid 
off salaried workers for the first time in 20 years. Some respondents expressed concern 
over builders’ ability to pay ex isting contracts with suppliers  or renew lines of credit. 
Metals producers said the falloff in demand ha d worsened recently, in part due to slower 
growth worldwide.  
High-tech manufacturing respondents reporte d mixed conditions, although overall 
production and new orders have declined sligh tly since the last surv ey. One contact noted 
the market for memory chips weakened furthe r due to the recent slowdown in the global 
economy. The current financial situation is reflected in a more cautious business 
environment, with the possibility of fewer or ders from retailers fo r the upcoming holiday 
season.  
Food product manufacturers said sales were solid, although there were reports of 
temporary production cuts and export delays due  to the storms. Specialized transportation 
equipment firms said activity remained stab le despite demand disruptions from clients 
tied to the Houston Port. Orders for paper products were mixed.  
 Refinery production in Texas and Louisi ana was severely disrupted by the back-
to-back storms, as plants were forced to reduce output or sh ut down. Contacts say 
damage was light, and all refineries but one are operating or restar ting production. Still, 
the storms left inventories at record lows, leading to spot gasoline shortages in the southeast and on the east coast.   
Retail Sales.   A combination of factors— weather disruptions, consumer 
uncertainty and financial concerns—led to mo stly weak reports from  retailers. Sales of 
consumer durables were down markedly accord ing to contacts, and the back to school 
season did not provide the usual bump. Discounter s continued to fare better than most. 
 XI-3   
 Respondents said food and gasoline sales rema in the primary drivers, while sales of 
discretionary items are flat to down. Outlooks  were fairly pessimistic, yet outside of 
storm-damaged areas sales are somewhat better  in Texas than elsewhere in the country.  
Auto sales continued to fall, leading to  high inventories, even for used cars. 
Contacts attributed the weakness to heighten ed consumer uncertainty related to the 
current financial environment.  While down significantly from  last year, truck and SUV 
sales picked up slightly over  the past six weeks, as lo w prices enticed some buyers. 
Tighter credit conditions are making it harder fo r the marginal customer to get a loan, but 
contacts said the primary problem is the lack of customers.   
Services.   Demand for temporary staffing rema ined steady overall. Orders were 
strong for workers in light i ndustrial manufacturing, but ha d slowed for employees in 
software/web services. Contacts said orders were down for workers in financial services 
and auto manufacturing. Legal se rvice activity continued to be  concentrated in litigation 
and bankruptcy work. Respondents said demand fo r legal services to support real estate 
and financial transactions ha d declined sharply, but demand remained strong from the oil 
and gas sector.  
Several respondents in the transportation services sector noted considerable, 
although temporary, loss of business as a result of hurricane Ike. Intermodal 
transportation contacts saw a rise in cargo volume last week as ac tivity caught back up 
after the closing of the Port of Houston. Over all, respondents were thankful the port was 
closed for just one week, and suffere d minimal damage. Railroad cargo volumes 
continued to decline. The storms reduced  cargo volumes of chemicals and petroleum 
products, while construction materials and motor vehicles volumes fell dramatically—which contacts attributed to weaker c onsumer demand. While business activity is 
expected to remain fairly stable thro ugh year-end, outlooks reflected increased 
uncertainty about the economic impact of the current credit ma rket situation.   
Eleventh District-based airlines said demand was holding up, despite losses due to 
Ike-related cancellations. Recent capacity cu ts and increased fares helped bolster 
revenues. While still elevated, the reduction in oil prices is starting to show up in more 
stable fares at some companies.  
 XI-4   
 Construction and Real Estate.   Worsening problems in credit markets 
permeated construction and real estate market s in the Eleventh District. The pace of new 
and existing home sales conti nued to slow, as economic un certainty kept many potential 
homebuyers on the sidelines. Those deci ding to buy found it much tougher to get 
qualified. Contacts noted weakness in sale s of higher-priced homes, as equity 
requirements and interest rates for jumbo loans have increased significantly. While 
inventories remain much lower than in ot her parts of the country, one builder said 
foreclosures in Dallas are adding to the suppl y of moderate to hi gher-priced homes. On a 
more positive note, realtors said relocatio ns were spurring some demand, and values 
appear to be holding up overa ll. The outlook for the housing market remains extremely 
uncertain, but many noted the “bottom was in sight”. Contacts said apartment leasing 
picked up in the third quarter, and rents were  holding up in the face of national declines.  
Commercial real estate re spondents said leasing activity for office and industrial 
space declined sharply as businesses re-evaluat e plans in the face of current uncertainties. 
Sales of commercial properties continue to pl ummet, with one contact in the industrial 
market saying closings had “hit the wall”. Lend ers are increasingly wary of raising their 
exposure to real estate, especially given the recent flurry in merger/consolidation activity 
which may elevate acquiring banks’ shares of real estate loans on the books. Previously 
funded projects in the pipelin e are expected to keep comm ercial construction activity 
solid, but there were reports that some early 2009 projects have been pushed back or 
halted.        
 Financial Services.   Heightened caution was preval ent among financial services 
contacts, although most still expe ct the effects of the current situation to be less severe 
than in other districts. Lenders reportedly have become even more  conservative since the 
last survey—highly scrutinizing borrowers a nd enforcing strict underwriting standards. 
According to some contacts, the cost of capital remains high, inducing lenders to widen 
loan interest-rate spreads. Very few commerci al real estate deals are getting done, with 
only smaller, low-risk projects able to meet  current standards. Contacts said consumer 
lending is soft, although business lending remain s fairly solid. While competition for new 
deposits is tough, institutions saw an uptick in  deposits recently, reflecting a flight to 
quality from riskier investments.  
 XI-5   
 Energy.  U.S. drilling activity rose in recent weeks, with the average number of 
active rigs above 2,000 for the first time si nce 1985. More than half the rise was 
attributed to the Eleventh District. Activ ity continues to be focused on land-based 
unconventional natural gas, despite the fall in price to $7.50 per thousand cubic feet. 
Offshore oil drilling was disrupt ed by the hurricanes Gustav  and Ike, but damage was 
light compared to Katrina and Rita. While demand for oil has weakened, contacts say 
long-run prospects for the industry have not changed. 
Agriculture.   Conditions were mixed in the agricultural sector.  Late summer 
rains helped alleviate drought conditions in parts of the Di strict, but strong winds, the 
storm surge and severe flooding from Ike caused some crop damage and displaced a 
substantial amount of livestock. While the st orm’s impact should not be significant for 
Texas overall, it is devast ating for affected areas.  
 XII-1  
  
TWELFTH DISTRICT – SAN FRANCISCO  
Summary . Economic activity in the Twelfth District weakened further during the 
survey period of September through early October.  Retail sales were very sluggish on 
net, and demand fell for most categories of services.  Manufacturing activity slowed, but sales continued to grow for agricultural products and natural resources.  Activity in 
District housing markets generally remained anemic, and demand for commercial real 
estate weakened further. Contacts from financial institutions reported a decline in loan demand and credit quality, along with a drop in credit availability.  Upward pressures on 
prices remained significant overall, due to the delayed influence of pas t increases in the 
prices of energy and selected commodities.  
Wages and Prices. Despite some easing of late, upward pressures on prices 
remained substantial.  Prices on energy and selected commodities, including food 
products and some raw materials, have come down from their recent highs.  However, these prices generally remained at elevated levels and continued to exert substantial 
upward pressure on overall final prices, due to the delayed effects of earlier price 
increases. Prices for many retail items were held down by extensive discounting, but some contacts cautioned that pending increases have been working their way through the 
supply chain and will reach consumers late this year and in 2009.  
Wage pressures eased further as the degree of labor market slack deepened.  
Job cuts were reported across a wide range of industries, particularly in the 
construction, finance, and real estate sectors.  As a result, unemployment rose throughout the District, and contacts noted that wages have been largely flat of late.  The primary exception is worker groups whose skills enable them to use advanced technologies, for whom wage gains remained significant.   
Retail Trade and Services.  Retail sales were quite sluggish and appeared to fall 
during the survey period, despite the influence of the back- to-school shopping season.  
Sales remained weak and inventories rose further for department stores and smaller retail 
outlets alike. Discount chains continued to see stronger demand than traditional 
department stores, as con sumers switched away from high-priced items and curbed 
discretionary spending; outdoor equipment such as camping gear was one bright spot, as  
 XII-2   
 households gravitated towards lo w-cost vacation options.  Sale s for retailers of furniture 
and household appliances continued to slide from already low levels, and unit sales of 
gasoline fell further.  Sales fell considerably  for all types of automobiles, both new and 
used, with reduced credit availability re portedly emerging as a significant constraint.  
Demand for services fell further compared  with the previous survey period.  
Health-care providers reported declining de mand, with some medical centers noting a 
significant drop in cash collectibles recentl y.  Sales weakened for providers of 
advertising, professional, and legal services , idling some workers and reducing capacity 
utilization.  Activity remained moribund for provide rs of real estate se rvices such as title 
insurance.  Contacts noted m odest declines in tourist act ivity in some major tourist 
destinations in the District, such as Sout hern California and Las Vegas; the drop was 
more significant in Hawaii and was accompanied by layoffs there.  
Manufacturing.  District manufacturing activity sl owed during the survey period 
of September through early October.  Although manufacturers of commercial aircraft still 
faced an extensive backlog of orders, activity in that sector was sharply curtailed by an 
ongoing labor dispute.  Makers of semic onductors and other information technology 
products continued to experien ce high rates of capacity util ization and moderate sales 
gains, but signs of a softening in glob al demand have emerged.  Demand for wood 
products remained very weak, causing additiona l mill shutdowns.  Activity at petroleum 
refineries continued at low levels, and cap acity utilization remained well below its 
longer-term average.  Capacity  utilization also was very lo w among metal fabricators, for 
whom demand has weakened substantially.  Firm s in most sectors reported limited capital 
spending of late, with plans to hold flat or reduce spending during the balance of 2008.  
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries.  Demand and sales for 
agricultural items and natural resources cont inued to expand during the recent survey 
period.  Brisk sales were reported for most crops, propelled in pa rt by strong export 
demand.  Demand remained solid for petroleu m products, spurring further expansion of 
extraction capacity.  However, the recent declin e in oil prices has reduced the viability of 
some high-cost expansion projects, and the recent hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico 
sharply curtailed capacity utilization for Di strict companies with operations there.   
Real Estate and Construction.  The District’s severe housing slump continued, 
 XII-3   
 while demand for commercial real estate er oded further.  Demand and sales remained 
very weak for new and existing homes, and pri ces continued to fall.  Foreclosure rates on 
existing homes, which were already high in parts of Arizona, California, and Nevada, 
rose noticeably in Utah and Idaho.  Widespr ead availability of foreclosed homes at 
bargain basement prices spurred sales of existing homes to exceed their levels from 
twelve months earlier in some parts of Calif ornia.  Demand for nonres idential real estate 
fell, and limited credit availability reporte dly constrained property purchases and the 
number and scope of projects that were underway in some areas.  Vacancy rates on commercial space rose in Las Vegas and other ma jor metropolitan areas.  Contacts noted 
that the strongest constructi on activity by far was for public buildings such as hospitals 
and schools.  
Financial Institutions.  Lending activity and credit conditions weakened 
noticeably during the survey period.  Dema nd for commercial and industrial loans fell 
further, and demand for new residential mo rtgages remained very weak.  Credit 
availability declined significantly as banks and other financial inst itutions faced rising 
difficulties securing short-term funding.  Contacts also pointed to higher delinquency rates in all loan categories.  Banks and cu stomers are taking steps to enhance deposit-
insurance coverage of exis ting holdings by spreading de posits across multiple banks.  
 