 
     For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. 
    Wednesday 
    January 14, 2015 
 
 
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
 
 
 
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
 
 
By Federal Reserve District 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 2015 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITION S 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT 
 
 
January 2015 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i 
 
First District - Boston  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I-1 
 
Second District - New York  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  II-1 
 
Third District - Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-1 
 
Fourth District - Cleveland . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-1 
 
Fifth District - Richmond . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  V-1 
 
Sixth District - Atlanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1 
 
Seventh District - Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  VII-1 
 
Eighth District - St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VIII-1 
 
Ninth District - Minneapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  . IX-1 
 
Tenth District - Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  . . X-1 
 
Eleventh District - Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1 
 
Twelfth District - San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . XII-1 
 
i 
 
   Summary * 
 
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts s uggest that national economic activity 
continued to expand during the reporting period of mid-November through late December, with most 
Districts reporting a “modest” or “moderate” pace o f growth.  In contrast, the Kansas City District 
reported only slight growth in December.  However, most of their contacts, along with those of several  
other Districts, expect somewhat faster growth over  the coming months.  The Dallas District indicated 
that growth slowed slightly during the reporting pe riod and that several contacts expressed concern ab out 
the effect of lower oil prices on the District econ omy.  Consumer spending increased in most Districts , 
with generally modest year-over-year gains in retai l sales.  Auto sales showed moderate to strong grow th.  
Travel and tourism picked up during the reporting p eriod.  The pace of growth of demand for nonfinanci al 
services varied widely across Districts and across sectors, but appeared to be moderate on balance.  
Manufacturing activity expanded in most Districts.  Single-family residential real estate sales and 
construction were largely flat on balance across th e Districts, while commercial real estate activity 
expanded.  Demand for business and consumer credit grew.  Credit quality improved a bit further overal l.  
Agricultural conditions were mixed.  Overall demand  for energy-related products and services weakened 
somewhat, while the output of energy-related produc ts increased.  
Payrolls in a variety of sectors expanded moderatel y during the reporting period.   Significant 
wage pressures were largely limited to workers with  specialized technical skills.  Prices increased sl ightly, 
on balance, in most Districts. 
 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
 Consumer spending increased in most Districts, with  generally modest year-over-year gains in 
retail sales.  Contacts reported slight to modest g ains in the Boston, Dallas, Philadelphia, and Cleve land 
Districts.  Sales were solid in Atlanta.  Moderate holiday sales growth exceeded expectations in Chica go 
and met expectations in San Francisco.  General mer chandise retailers in the New York District indicat ed 
that sales were largely sluggish and below plan for  the holiday season.  The Kansas City District repo rted 
that retail sales were lower than a year earlier, w ith a few retailer contacts noting a drop in sales of high-
end products.  In contrast, Philadelphia and San Fr ancisco reported that high-end merchandise continue d 
to sell well. 
                                                           
*Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Franci sco and based on information collected on or before  
January 5, 2015.  This document summarizes comments  received from business and other contacts 
outside the Federal Reserve System and is not a com mentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
ii 
 
 Auto sales showed moderate to strong growth on a ye ar-over-year basis, with Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, and Dallas at the lower end of this rang e, and Atlanta and Chicago at the higher end.  Atla nta 
auto dealers noted that lower gas prices quickly bo osted purchases of larger vehicles.  However, some 
dealers in the St. Louis District reported excess i nventories of luxury cars.  Kansas City reported th at auto 
sales decreased during the reporting period but rem ained higher than 12 months earlier.  Auto sales we re 
robust in some areas of the San Francisco District,  but were somewhat below expectations in other area s. 
Travel and tourism picked up during the reporting p eriod.  The Boston, New York, Atlanta, and 
San Francisco Districts reported strong travel and tourism activity.  Broadway theaters reported that 
attendance and revenues were up more than 10 percen t from the same period in 2013.  Tourism in the 
Richmond and Kansas City Districts was at or above normal seasonal levels.  However, ski resorts in th e 
Philadelphia District struggled to attract visitors  in the midst of unseasonably warm weather.  Warm 
December weather in the Minneapolis District also r educed winter tourism there. 
 
Nonfinancial Services  
The pace of demand growth for nonfinancial services  varied widely across Districts and sectors 
during the reporting period, but appeared to be mod erate on balance.  Overall, nonfinancial service-se ctor 
firms in the Philadelphia and San Francisco Distric ts continued to report moderate growth.  Most 
nonfinancial service firms in the Dallas District r eported flat or higher demand.  Activity at profess ional 
business services firms in Minneapolis and Kansas C ity increased.  However, contacts in the Kansas Cit y 
District expect that pace of growth to slow somewha t in coming months.  The Boston District reported 
that some consulting and advertising firms grew rap idly.  Demand for staffing services in the Dallas 
District was mixed, with some contacts reporting st rong increases in demand and others reporting sligh t 
decreases.  Freight volume in the Cleveland Distric t increased during the reporting period, but contac ts 
stated that freight transportation capacity constra ints remained an issue.  Freight volume in Atlanta,  
Kansas City, and Dallas held steady or increased on  a year-over-year basis.   
 
Manufacturing  
Manufacturing activity expanded in most Districts.  Philadelphia reported that manufacturing 
activity grew at a modest pace during the current r eporting period, with a slight slowdown relative to  the 
previous period.  Reports regarding new orders and shipments in the Philadelphia District suggested so me 
further slowing moving forward.  Manufacturing ship ments and new orders grew modestly in the 
Richmond District.  Contacts at factories in the Cl eveland District reported that demand increased a b it on 
balance.  Manufacturing activity grew at a moderate  pace in Boston, New York, Chicago, and San 
Francisco.   However, a manufacturer in the Boston District indicated that congestion at West Coast po rts 
iii 
 
 had impeded its exports.  Activity in the auto indu stry in the Chicago District remained a source of 
strength for the region.  Atlanta reported that man ufacturing activity strengthened overall.  Minneapo lis 
and Kansas City reported that manufacturing activit y increased only slightly during the reporting peri od.   
  
Real Estate and Construction  
Single-family residential real estate sales and con struction were largely flat on balance across the 
Districts.  Sales declined somewhat on a year-over- year basis in the Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chica go, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts.  In  the Philadelphia District, year-over-year existing  
home sales finished lower in November, but pending December sales in some areas were up notably over 
December 2013.  However, builders of new homes in t he Philadelphia District reported weak traffic for 
prospective buyers and fewer contract signings.  Sa n Francisco reported that overall home sales picked  up 
in December.  Richmond reported a modest increase i n housing market activity.  Home prices increased 
modestly, on balance, in the Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas Districts.  The 
Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansa s City Districts all reported slightly slower singl e-
family residential construction activity.  However,  the pace of single-family home construction increa sed 
in some areas of the San Francisco District.  
Commercial real estate activity expanded in most Di stricts.  The Philadelphia District reported a 
modest pace of growth for commercial real estate le asing activity, and Boston reported improving 
conditions in commercial real estate markets overal l.  Commercial real estate activity in the Chicago and 
Kansas City Districts expanded at a moderate pace.  The Dallas District noted that office leasing acti vity 
remained strong, but one contact noted a slight pul lback in demand from oil and gas firms.  Demand for  
apartments in the Dallas District also remained str ong.  New York City’s co-op and condo market showed  
continued strength in the final quarter of 2014; ap artment sales volume was down from the exceptionall y 
high levels of the prior year but still fairly bris k, while selling prices were up moderately.  Commer cial 
construction activity increased in most Districts.  Activity grew modestly in the Philadelphia Distric t and 
a bit faster in the Atlanta and Chicago Districts.  Atlanta cited the multifamily residential segment as a 
source of growth, while Chicago credited demand for  industrial and office buildings.  Commercial 
builders in the Cleveland District reported a moder ate to robust increase for projects in the pipeline .  
Dallas reported that overall commercial constructio n was strong.  San Francisco reported that multifam ily 
residential construction was strong in many areas o f that District and that retail, office, industrial , or 
infrastructure projects were widespread across that  District. 
  
iv 
 
  
Banking and Finance  
 Demand for business and consumer credit grew durin g the reporting period.  Overall loan demand 
increased slightly in the Richmond, Kansas City and  Dallas Districts.  Philadelphia reported a modest 
increase in total loan volume.  Contacts in the San  Francisco District gave mixed reports regarding to tal 
loan growth.  Demand for business credit in the Cle veland District grew overall during the reporting 
period.  Demand for auto loans in the Chicago Distr ict grew moderately, and one contact noted a 
significant spike in credit card applications. 
 Credit quality generally remained good, with overa ll reductions in loan delinquencies.  According 
to the Philadelphia District, most of their financi al industry contacts reported continued improvement s in 
their customers’ overall credit quality and in thei r own loan portfolios.  However, high rates of seve rely 
distressed mortgages persisted in New Jersey and Pe nnsylvania.  Contacts reported little change in the ir 
own lending standards.  However, several Districts commented that their contacts indicated that stiff 
competition for high-quality borrowers was leading to lower underwriting standards among lenders more 
generally.  
 
Agriculture and Natural Resources  
Agricultural conditions were mixed during the repor ting period.  Contacts in the Richmond 
District reported that agribusiness conditions were  better than in the same period a year earlier.  Th e St. 
Louis District reported that winter wheat harvests are likely to be lower than average, largely reflec ting 
planting delays in Illinois due to wet weather in O ctober.   The level of red meat output in the St. L ouis 
District through November was below year-earlier le vels, while hog and milk output in the Chicago 
District was higher than expected during the report ing period.  Agricultural lenders in the Minneapoli s 
District expected farm incomes in the fourth quarte r of 2014 to come in below the level of the same 
quarter in 2013.  Prices received by farmers in the  Minneapolis District in December decreased from th e 
previous year for corn, soybeans, wheat, hay, and m ilk; prices increased for cattle, hogs, eggs, and 
poultry.  Agricultural growing conditions in the Ka nsas City District were generally favorable in 
December, and crop prices rose modestly.   Kansas C ity reported that wheat prices increased modestly 
amid global supply concerns about limits on Russian  grain exports and lower production estimates in 
Australia. The Dallas District reported that agricu ltural conditions improved slightly, but drought 
conditions continued in portions of Texas.  Some ar eas of the Atlanta District saw a moderate 
improvement in drought conditions.  Dairy farm prof its in the San Francisco District increased 
significantly over the past year, but milk futures prices declined recently. Uncertainty regarding fut ure 
water availability in California slowed new plantin gs of permanent crops.     
v 
 
 Overall demand for energy-related products and serv ices weakened somewhat during the 
reporting period.  The Kansas City and Dallas Distr icts reported that demand for oilfield services 
decreased, while the Atlanta District reported that  growth in the supply of crude oil and natural gas 
continued to outpace demand growth.  However, conta cts in the San Francisco District reported that 
energy demand from manufacturers was solid.  The ov erall output of energy-related products increased. 
Natural gas production in the Richmond District inc reased moderately during the reporting period, and 
the number of natural gas rigs in the Kansas City D istrict increased.  The pace of coal production in the 
St. Louis District during the reporting period exce eded that of the same period in 2013, and year-to-d ate 
coal production in the Cleveland District slightly exceeded prior year levels.  The rate of coal produ ction 
in the Richmond District remained slow during the r eporting period.  The Cleveland District reported t hat 
natural gas extraction activity remained at a high level.  Oil drilling activity in the Kansas City Di strict 
declined, and contacts expect that District’s energ y sector to slow further in response to lower energ y 
prices.   
 
Employment, Wages, and Prices  
Payrolls in a variety of sectors expanded moderatel y during the reporting period.  The Chicago 
District reported that overall hiring increased, an d the Minneapolis District indicated that labor mar kets 
continued to tighten. Contacts at staffing firms in  the Philadelphia District reported continued moder ate 
increases in hiring for both temporary and permanen t positions.  Labor demand in the Richmond District  
increased, and the Atlanta District saw job gains a cross most sectors.  Payrolls increased at a modest  pace 
in the Cleveland District, primarily in banking, fr eight services, and manufacturing.  Manufacturing 
payrolls also expanded in the Richmond and St. Loui s Districts.  In contrast, the Boston District repo rted 
that manufacturers were not hiring.  Reports of hir ing in the Dallas District were slightly less wides pread 
than in the previous reporting period, and a few en ergy firms in that District reported hiring freezes  and 
layoffs.   
Significant wage pressures continued to be limited largely to workers with particular technical 
skills.  Indeed, the Philadelphia, Cleveland and Ch icago Districts noted that upward wage pressures 
tended to be limited to experienced and technically -skilled personnel.  The Richmond District reported  
that overall wage pressures were mild during the re porting period and that average wage growth in 
manufacturing slowed somewhat.  The Dallas District  noted fewer reports of rising wage pressures than in 
the previous reporting period.  In contrast, Kansas  City reported that wage growth accelerated slightl y, 
with many contacts citing labor shortages.  
Prices increased slightly, on balance, in most Dist ricts during the reporting period.  Overall prices 
in the Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts wer e largely stable.   Businesses in the Atlanta Distr ict 
vi 
 
 continued to report little input cost pressure and limited pricing power.  Boston indicated that cost 
pressures varied, with selective price increases pl anned by some respondents.  Contacts in the 
Philadelphia District reported little change to the  steady, slight pace of price increases.  Overall p rices 
increased modestly in the Kansas City and San Franc isco Districts.  The Richmond District reported tha t 
retail prices grew at a slower pace than in the pre vious reporting period, while price inflation in th e non-
retail service sector increased slightly.  The Clev eland District reported scattered indications of de clining 
prices for petroleum-based products and some metals .  However, several Districts reported that the cos t of 
a variety of construction materials increased.  
I-1 
 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Sales or revenues are ahead of year-earlier levels according to most First District business 
contacts in the manufacturing, retail, and advertis ing and consulting sectors. Commercial real estate 
markets are steady to improving and most residentia l real estate markets in the region continue to see  
price increases and sales declines. With a few exce ptions, manufacturers and retailers are not increas ing 
employment, while advertising and consulting firms continue to add modestly to headcounts. Cost 
pressures vary, with selective price increases plan ned by several respondents. The 2015 outlook is 
positive for almost all responding firms.  
Retail and Tourism 
Retail respondents this round report December or Q4  year-over-year comparable-store sales 
ranging from a low single digit decrease to an incr ease of slightly over 7 percent; the decrease refle cts 
extra-strong year-earlier sales as a result of Hurr icane Sandy rebuilding. Three of these contacts end  their 
fiscal year on or near December 31, and preliminary  analysis shows 2014 total sales down 1 percent to up 
almost 6 percent compared to 2013. While overall bu siness is good, there has been some softening in th e 
apparel categories; demand for home furnishings and  home improvement categories remains strong. One 
contact characterizes the current daily retail envi ronment as consisting of “higher highs and lower lo ws.” 
As in the previous round, some respondents say thei r prices remain steady, while others cite price cha nges 
for some items of plus or minus 1 percent. Based on  their own manufacturing costs and vendor prices, o ne 
contact says that prices for fall 2015 merchandise will be up about 3 percent overall from fall 2014. Most 
retail respondents are optimistic about the outlook  for 2015, given that business is currently good an d 
consumer sentiment seems more positive, partly beca use the cost of oil is low. 
The Boston area continues to enjoy a strong boost f rom travel-related spending. Hotel occupancy 
rates for 2014 are high and combined with higher av erage room rates, the preliminary estimate is that 
2014 hotel revenues will be up almost 10 percent ov er 2013, which was a record-setting year. Through 
October, museum attendance was up 14 percent year-o ver-year, and contacts note many bookings of 
restaurant and museum space for year-end functions.  2015:Q1 will be stronger than 2014:Q1 due to more 
corporate meetings and conventions, and hotels have  strong advance international bookings. The initial  
projection for 2015 is a 7 percent increase in hote l revenues, with a slight drop in occupancy rates f rom 
record highs compensated for by higher average room  rates. 
Manufacturing and Related Services 
Of the 11 manufacturing firms contacted this cycle,  all but one report stronger sales. The 
exception is a frozen food producer who attributes the weakness to a highly competitive market. 
Otherwise, many contacts express surprise at how st rong demand has been in 2014. For example, one 
firm says that sales of mail-related devices and se rvices was up in the fourth quarter, reversing year s of 
decline. A manufacturer of testing equipment says s ales are strong overall but flat in China, a big ch ange 
from historical annual increases of 20 percent. By contrast, a toy manufacturer says problems at West 
Coast ports has hurt sales as they couldn’t get som e products to market.  
Only one of 11 contacts reports serious materials c ost pressure; that contact cites sharp increases 
in chemical prices and says the firm will try to ra ise their sales prices to offset the increased cost s. Four 
contacts indicate the strengthening dollar is reduc ing profits or raising costs for them overseas. A 
I-2 
 semiconductor manufacturer notes that the rising do llar reduced dollar sales by about 1.2 percent in 2 014. 
No firms report any significant changes in inventor ies. Most are trying to lower inventory costs; howe ver, 
a semiconductor maker wants to increase inventories  but a tight supply chain makes that difficult. 
Only one contacted manufacturer reports lower emplo yment; they closed their direct sales 
channel which led to a 400-person reduction in head count. A pharmaceutical firm is adding to New 
England employment. On the negative side, no firms report significant upward revisions to their hiring  
plans and five cite no significant headcount increa ses. A semiconductor manufacturer with sharply high er 
sales is increasing overtime rather than headcount . Capital expenditures are steady or up at all but on e 
contacted firm; the exception is a publishing compa ny which says it is considering reducing investment  to 
build up a reserve for future investments. Some con tacts do report unusually high levels of investment  but 
generally say they are consistent with long-term pl ans and not due to high frequency changes in demand . 
The outlook is positive for all respondent manufact urers, even though three contacts specifically 
mention Europe as a cause for concern. One semicond uctor manufacturer predicts a fall in sales in 2015  
but as payback for above-trend growth in 2014 .  
Selected Business Services  
Consulting and advertising firms experienced varyin g positive levels of growth this past quarter. 
Growth ranges from moderate—for a high-end economic  consulting firm as mortgage-backed securities 
litigation finally slows—to rapid, for a particular ly well-positioned healthcare consulting firm. A se cond 
healthcare consulting firm experienced a strong reb ound from a slow third quarter, as hospitals figure d 
out their budgets and demanded more help with compl iance. A strategy consulting firm reports strong 
year-over-year growth, but is down modestly from la st quarter, as private equity due diligence work 
returns to historically normal levels. An advertisi ng materials firm continues its trend of growing wi th the 
economy, and capped off the year with their stronge st quarter in 2014.  
Consulting firms are seeing moderate to modest incr eases in costs, although the bulk of their 
expenses are in personnel and rent, and wages in th ese firms are generally increasing in proportion to  the 
level of growth the firm is experiencing. Contacts generally adjust their prices up once a year to pas s the 
majority of costs along, so early 2015 will see mos t firms’ prices for these services increase from 0 
percent to 5 percent. An advertising materials firm  will have to adjust their cost structure in early 2015 in 
anticipation of a revision in UPS and FedEx freight  calculations, but they are unsure how much resista nce 
they will face as they try to pass this on to custo mers.  
All contacts increased personnel modestly in 2014, and plan on further increases in 2015. Health 
care and economic analysis contacts cite plenty of slack in labor markets for consultants and analysts  at 
all levels, but say that tech and data analyst posi tions continue to be competitive to fill, a sentime nt 
echoed by an advertising materials contact who note s continuing difficulty filling e-commerce related 
positions. A strategy consultant notes decreased in terest in strategy consulting by MBAs.  
All contacts are bullish on the U.S economy, and ar e optimistic about business conditions for the 
next year. The high end economic consultant expects  flat to modest growth for next year, but says the 
firm has been operating beyond capacity, and looks forward to the chance to “absorb” their recent 
success. Health care consultants have seven-figure deals in the pipeline, and anticipate high growth i n 
2015, despite general concern over federal budget a nd regulatory agencies efforts to continue rolling out 
I-3 
 the Affordable Care Act. Advertising materials and strategy consulting firms both anticipate continued 
robust growth for 2015, and cite only potential geopolitical turmoil as a risk factor. 
Commercial Real Estate 
Commercial real estate markets are steady or improving in the First District. According to 
contacts in Boston, office leasing fundamentals are unchanged since the last report and improved 
modestly on average compared with a year ago. Contacts continue to be impressed by the strength of 
demand for commercial property in Boston among foreign investors, who continue to pay prices that 
reflect highly optimistic expectations concerning growth in operating income. A regional lender to 
commercial real estate posted its best year yet in terms of loan volume, despite a very slow fourth quarter. 
A commercial real estate brokerage in Portland also had a record year in 2014 in terms of total revenues, a 
year that ended with very strong investment sales activity in the fourth quarter. Also in Portland, 
construction activity remains robust in the retail, residential, and hospitality sectors, while speculative 
office construction is not expected to occur for at least another year. In Providence, leasing deals under 
negotiation promise to boost absorption of office space in the near term, and office leasing fundamentals 
improved on net in 2014.  
Concerning the outlook, Boston contacts expect investment sales activity to remain robust, even 
if short-term or long-term interest rates increase in 2015. One Boston contact wonders whether growth 
among the city’s tech start-up firms can be sustained in 2015, noting attendant risks for office demand in 
the Seaport District. The 2015 outlook is favorable for Portland’s commercial real estate market and 
cautiously optimistic for the Providence market.  
Residential Real Estate 
Closed sales of single family homes declined in November in at least four of the six states in the 
First District compared to November 2013. Vermont saw an increase in sold homes; contacts in New 
Hampshire were unavailable. Sales also dipped in the condominium (condo) market in all responding 
states. Median sales prices rose in November in both single family and condo markets regionwide, with 
the exceptions of Maine, where prices decreased for single family homes, and Connecticut, where condo 
prices declined. In Massachusetts, prices have risen year-over-year in 25 of the last 26 months for single 
family homes and 17 of the last 18 months in the condo market. Contacts in Massachusetts say the driv Lng 
f
orces are a shortage of inventory and steady consumer demand. The level of inventory heading into 
December in Massachusetts is the lowest in a decade, with only a 4.6 month supply for single family 
homes and a 2.0 month supply in the condo market. November is the 33rd consecutive month of year-
over-year inventory decline in the Massachusetts single-family home market and the 49th consecutive 
decline in the condo market. In at least three other states, inventory declined in both the single family and 
condo markets; months of supply increased in Rhode Island. Realtors say they are cautiously optimistic 
because they remain busy; they hope interest rates will remain low and say markets will show further 
significant improvements only when high paying jobs become more available and new listings provide 
more options for buyers. 
II-1 
 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
Growth in the Second District’s economy has continu ed at a moderate pace since the last 
report.  Businesses report that cost pressures over all have abated further, though there are some 
reports of increased wage pressures; selling prices  remain generally stable to up slightly.  In genera l, 
businesses report that conditions have improved som ewhat since the last report.  Labor market 
conditions appear to have strengthened further in t he final weeks of 2014.  Retailers report that 
holiday season sales were somewhat disappointing an d little changed from 2013 levels, though sales 
picked up toward the latter part of December.  Auto  dealers characterize sales as sluggish in 
November, though both picked up, to varying degrees , in December.  Tourism remained fairly robust 
in late 2014, and consumer confidence climbed to a multi-year high.  Housing markets were mixed 
but, on balance, somewhat stronger in the final wee ks of 2014; multi-family construction has been 
fairly brisk.  Office markets have been generally s teady, while the market for industrial space has 
strengthened a bit.  Finally, banks report increase d loan demand—particularly from the commercial 
sector—as well as narrowing loan spreads; delinquen cy rates continued to decline for commercial 
loans and mortgages, but picked up for residential mortgages.   
Consumer Spending  
General merchandise retailers indicate that sales w ere generally sluggish and below plan for 
the holiday season overall.  However, most retail c ontacts noted that, while November and early 
December were sluggish, sales did pick up toward th e latter part of the month, especially in the week 
after Christmas.  The mid-November snowstorm that h it large parts of metropolitan Buffalo shut 
down many retailers for a number of days; in genera l, contacts in upstate New York note that sales 
picked up somewhat in December (especially toward t he end of the month) but were little changed 
from the prior holiday season.  Similarly, two majo r retail chains report that holiday-season sales 
across the region were below plan and little change d from 2013 levels, though both noted that sales 
picked up toward the latter part of December—especi ally after Christmas.  Overall, prices were 
II-2 
 described as little changed from a year earlier; some contacts report heavier discounting this past 
holiday season than in 2013, while others characterize it as about the same.  Post-holiday inventories 
are generally said to be in fairly good shape.   
Reports from auto dealers across upstate New York indicate that sales were sluggish in 
November but picked up somewhat in December.  Rochester-area dealers note that new vehicle sales 
weakened substantially in November but rebounded in early December, while used car sales 
improved.  Buffalo-area dealers paint a more mixed picture: new auto sales have not rebounded 
substantially from November’s weather-depressed levels, though sales of used vehicles have picked 
up somewhat.  Auto dealers in both areas note that both wholesale and retail credit conditions remain 
favorable. 
Consumer confidence in the region climbed in December, based on the Conference Board’s 
survey of residents in the region.  Confidence rose to a 10-month high in New York State and to a 
more than one-year high in the broader Middle Atlantic region (NY, NJ, PA).  Tourism continued to 
be strong in late 2014.  Broadway theaters report that attendance and revenues accelerated in 
December, and were up more than 10 percent from comparable 2013 levels.  Manhattan hotels also 
report that business has continued to be brisk toward the end of the year.   
Construction and Real Estate 
The District’s housing markets have shown signs of picking up in the closing weeks of 2014.   
Real estate contacts in western New York State indic ate that the housing market has gained some 
momentum in the final months of 2014, particu Oarly for trade-ups to mid-priced homes.  New York 
C
ity’s co-op and condo market showed continued strength in the final quarter of 2014: apartment 
sales volume was down from the exceptionally high levels of a year ago but still fairly brisk, while 
selling prices were up moderately.   
New York City’s residential rental market has been mixed:  Rents in Manhattan and 
Brooklyn have picked up somewhat and are up roughly 5 percent from a year ago, while Queens 
II-3 
 rents have been fairly steady.  Residential rents elsewhere around the New York City metro area are 
reported to be up 4-6 percent from a year ago, while rents across upstate New York are up about 2 
percent.  Rental vacancy rates have risen slightly across the District, though they remain fairly low, 
especially in New York City.  Multi-family construction remained fairly robust throughout most of 
the District in the fourth quarter.  
Commercial real estate markets were mixed but, on ba lance, somewhat stronger in the fourth 
quarter.  In New York City, office availability rates cont inue to drift down to new multi-year lows, 
w
hile asking rents are running 6-8 percent higher than a year ago.  Availability rates also edged down 
in northern New Jersey but edged up in Long Island and across upstate New York.  Rents outside 
New York City are generally little changed from a year earlier.  Office construction across the 
District continues to be sparse at best.  Industrial markets, however, mostly improved in the fourth 
quarter, as industrial availability rates continued to trend down in Long Island and northern New 
Jersey, while asking rents rose moderately.   
Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing contacts across the District generally report that conditions improved 
somewhat in late 2014.  Moreover, a survey of New York City area purchasing managers points to an 
acceleration in business activity in December; and a trucking industry expert reports that business 
conditions have improved substantially in late 2014, reflecting both strong demand and falling diesel 
prices; truck drivers are in high demand.  
The job market overall showed further signs of stren gthening in December, though contacts 
noted that this is a difficult time of year to gauge the market.  Still, one employment agency notes 
that hiring activity has remained unus Xally robust across a range of industry sectors during this 
t
ypically slow month.  Another employment agency reports more of a typical seasonal lull but notes 
that more job candidates seem to be receiving multiple offers.  Both contacts note increasing upward 
II-4 
 pressure on wages.  Various contacts mention partic ularly strong demand for workers in information 
technology, human resources, customer service and t rucking.   
Financial Developments  
Bankers report increased demand for commercial mort gages, commercial and industrial loans 
but steady demand for consumer and residential mort gage loans.  Bankers note a continued decrease 
in demand for refinancing.  Banks report that credi t standards were mostly unchanged though there 
were slight indications of tightening in consumer l oans and commercial mortgages.  Respondents 
report a slight decrease in spreads of loan rates o ver cost of funds—mainly on consumer, as well as 
commercial and industrial loans.  Respondents indic ate no change in the average deposit rate, on 
balance.  Finally, bankers report continued decreas es in delinquency rates on commercial mortgages 
and commercial and industrial loans, but an uptick in delinquencies for residential mortgages and 
some leveling off in rates on consumer loans. 
 
III-1 
  THIRD DISTRICT — PHILADELPHIA 
 
Aggregate business activity in the Third District c ontinued to grow at a modest pace 
during this current Beige Book period, with very fe w changes in the growth rates of specific 
sectors. Manufacturers reported modest growth after  a somewhat faster pace during the previous 
period. Auto dealers, staffing firms, and other gen eral service-sector firms continued to report a 
moderate pace of growth. Nonauto retailers continue d to report modest growth, while tourism 
activity appears to have slowed, with mixed reports  coming from contacts at different 
destinations. Residential builders continued to rep ort a slight decline in contract sales of new 
homes. Overall, brokers noted little change in exis ting home sales (sales of existing homes had 
risen slightly during the prior period). The commer cial real estate sectors continued to report 
modest growth for construction and for leasing of e xisting commercial properties.  
Lending volumes continued to grow at a modest pace,  and credit quality continued to 
improve; however, more contacts expressed concern a bout loosening underwriting standards. As 
in the previous Beige Book, contacts reported sligh t increases in wages, home prices, and general 
price levels. Contacts continued to anticipate mode rate growth of economic activity over the next 
six months.  
 
Manufacturing. Third District manufacturers reported that current activity resumed 
growing at a modest pace after rising more briskly during the previous Beige Book period. 
Reports of new orders and shipments also suggested continued growth, but with less vigor. 
About twice as many firms reported decreases in new  orders and shipments compared with last 
period. Gains in activity appeared to be stronger a mong makers of primary metals, chemicals, 
and paper products; activity appeared weaker among makers of lumber and wood, rubber, and 
plastic products. Contacts continued to report that  stronger demand emanated from the 
automotive and commercial aviation sectors.   
Expectations of positive growth during the next six  months remained at historically 
elevated levels and were broad-based. Nearly two-th irds of the Third District manufacturing 
contacts reported positive expectations for growth.  Overall, about one-third of the firms’ contacts 
also continued to report that they expect to increa se employment levels and capital expenditures. 
Only 10 percent or fewer of manufacturing contacts expected a decrease in employment, capital 
expenditures, or general activity.  
 
Retail.  Third District contacts have continued to report m odest growth in nonauto retail 
sales since the prior Beige Book period. An operato r of area malls reported that sales were better 
in 2014 than they were in 2013, but they were not s pectacular. Higher-end merchandise 
continued to sell strongly, as it has for much of t he recovery. Although contacts anticipate that 
III-2 
 retail sales will improve in 2015, one contact caut ioned that more retail bankruptcies may occur 
in early 2015 due to shifting trends in tastes.  
Auto dealers continued to report moderate growth in  sales year over year. A Pennsylvania 
contact described sales levels throughout the state  as strong overall through two-thirds of 
December despite the typical seasonal slowdown. Sta tewide sales in New Jersey were steady 
between October and November; however, the year-ove r-year change was flat in October and up 
8 percent in November. Auto dealers remain bullish for 2015, and low oil prices are shifting 
purchases from cars to trucks.  
 
Finance. Third District financial firms have continued to re port modest increases in total 
loan volume since the previous Beige Book. Volumes increased rapidly for credit card lines in a 
typical seasonal shift. Moderate growth was reporte d for commercial and industrial lending, 
while modest growth was reported in several loan se gments, including commercial real estate 
and some consumer credit lines, such as auto loans.  Only slight growth was reported for 
mortgages and home equity lines of credit. Most con tacts reported continued improvements in 
their customers’ credit quality and in their own lo an portfolios. However, most contacts also 
warned that underwriting standards have loosened. A  mortgage servicing contact expressed 
concern about loan performance in 2015 and 2016 eve n as the rate of mortgage delinquencies 
appear to be bottoming out in most states. New Jers ey and Pennsylvania remain exceptions with 
persistently high rates of severely distressed mort gages. Contacts remained optimistic about 
growth prospects for the nation’s economy and are e specially bullish about the potential impact 
of low-cost natural gas on Pennsylvania’s industria l prospects.  
 
Real Estate and Construction. Overall, Third District homebuilders continued to r eport 
weak traffic and declining numbers of contract sign ings. One builder reported more potential 
buyers and was more optimistic for December than he  was in the prior two months. Builders 
reported ongoing price pressures from contractors f or their labor costs and continued difficulty 
attracting first-time homebuyers out of the rental market. Builders expect that 2015 will be a 
better year than 2014, but they expressed a range o f opinions on whether household formations 
will return to the prerecession rate or settle into  a new, lower normal trend. Brokers reported that 
existing home sales finished lower in November on a  year-over-year basis; however, a broker 
compiling data on a 10-county Philadelphia region r eported that pending sales were up in double 
digits through mid-December. Contacts continued to report slight overall increases in home 
prices. Brokers are generally more optimistic for a  return to growth in 2015.  
Construction and leasing continued at a modest pace , according to nonresidential real 
estate contacts. Demand continued for new industria l/warehouse projects and for projects in 
Center City Philadelphia and some outlying suburbs.  Contacts from architecture and engineering 
firms reported a significant increase in bids emerg ing for new projects, while competition from 
III-3 
 other firms has begun to abate. The falling competi tion was attributed to increased demand that 
has begun to stretch the capacity of some firms. Co ntacts continued to report incremental 
improvements in leasing activity in downtown and su burban Philadelphia, especially for office, 
residential, and retail spaces in Center City and s elect suburban office markets. The office space 
demand primarily represents a shift in the desired type of office space, rather than growth of 
office employment. Still, contacts are optimistic f or continued growth of both new construction 
and leasing activity in 2015.  
 
Services. Third District service-sector firms have continued to report moderate growth in 
activity since the previous Beige Book. Nearly half  of all firms reported increases in new orders 
and sales. Two large national firms reported ongoin g growth that was meeting expectations for 
the fourth quarter despite some headwinds from shif ting consumer trends. Staffing contacts in 
eastern and central Pennsylvania continued to repor t moderate increases in hiring for both 
temporary and permanent positions. Staffing request s continued to flow in on the Monday before 
Christmas. Christmas week is typically slower, as s taffing orders slump to their seasonal low 
during the week of New Year’s. Staffing firms remai ned very positive for growth prospects in 
2015. Overall, about three-fourths of all service-s ector contacts reported expectations that growth 
trends for their firms will remain positive over th e next six months; none anticipated declines.  
Third District tourist areas reported mixed conditi ons for the early winter months. Several 
larger ski resorts have established a two-foot base  of snow after a pre-Thanksgiving snowstorm 
staked them to an early season. However, unseasonab ly warm weather caused all the resorts to 
struggle to maintain good snow conditions and to at tract winter tourists. The warmer weather and 
special events have kept the shore destinations rea sonably busy during their off-season. 
However, many contacts remain concerned about the l ong-term impacts of casino closings in 
Atlantic City. Casino revenues were down about 10 p ercent in November year over year.  
 
Prices and Wages. Overall, Third District contacts reported little ch ange to the steady, 
slight pace of price level increases that was seen in other recent Beige Book periods.  
Manufacturing contacts have reported little change in their prices paid and prices received since 
the prior period, with about two to three times mor e firms expecting increases versus decreases. 
Among nonmanufacturing firms, contacts have reporte d fewer increases and more decreases of 
prices paid and prices received since the prior per iod, with little net difference. Manufacturers 
and construction firms continued to note wage press ures to attract skilled workers. Other 
contacts, including those from staffing firms, cont inued to note little significant change in wage 
pressures. Most contacts expect lower energy prices  to broadly boost consumer spending, with 
more upside potential in Pennsylvania than downside  risk to the state’s energy-producing 
sectors. 
IV-1 
 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
The economy in the Fourth District expanded at a mo dest pace during the past six weeks. 
Most of our contacts have a positive outlook for th e new year, and they expect demand for their 
products and services to remain at current levels o r rise. Manufacturers reported that business 
activity increased at a modest rate. Demand for non residential construction strengthened, while 
the residential market was stable. Retail spending during the holiday shopping season was 
slightly above year-ago levels, and year-to-date au to sales posted moderate gains compared to 
2013. District coal production is up slightly year- over-year, while shale gas activity remains at a 
high level. Freight shipments were strong, but capa city issues are limiting growth. The demand 
for business and consumer credit moved higher.  
Payrolls increased at a modest pace, primarily in b anking, freight services, and 
manufacturing. Staffing firms reported that the num ber of job openings and placements in energy 
and manufacturing companies had risen slightly. Upw ard pressure on wages is limited to 
experienced and technically skilled personnel acros s industry sectors. Overall, input and finished 
goods prices were stable. There were scattered repo rts of declining prices for metals and 
petroleum-based products and rising prices for some  building materials.   
Manufacturing. Factory representatives reported that demand ranged  from stable to 
showing a moderate improvement during the past six weeks. Any declines in orders were 
attributed to seasonal factors. Year-to-date result s were generally better compared to those in 
2013; several producers cited growth in the constru ction, shale gas, and auto industries as 
contributing to higher revenues. Our contacts are f airly optimistic and expect moderate to strong 
growth in 2015, though some expressed concern about  weakening foreign economies and a 
decline in the price of oil. The seasonal slowdown in steel shipments that typically begins in 
November was slightly deeper than expected. A few c ontacts believe that customers are waiting 
for steel prices to stabilize at a lower level. Due  to pricing and market uncertainties, some steel 
producers are reducing their finished goods invento ry. Year-to-date auto production through 
November at District assembly plants was more than 4 percent higher compared to the same 
period in 2013. 
A large majority of factory representatives reporte d that capital spending in fiscal year 
2015 will be moderately higher than prior-year leve ls, with monies being allocated mainly for 
new IT and capital equipment. Raw material prices w ere stable or lower during the past six 
weeks; declines were seen in steel, copper, and pet roleum-based products. Finished goods prices 
held steady. New hiring continued at a modest pace,  mainly in production and sales. Wage 
pressures are limited to high-skilled production wo rkers, engineering, IT, and computer system 
personnel.      
Real Estate and Construction. Year-to-date sales through November of new and 
existing single-family homes were slightly below le vels seen in 2013, while the average sales 
price was moderately higher. New-home contracts wer e mainly in the move-up price-point 
categories. Since our last report, single-family co nstruction starts were down slightly, while the 
IV-2 
 number of single and multifamily building permits i ssued moved mildly higher. Homebuilders 
pointed to a scarcity of lots in strong markets and  stringent mortgage standards as factors that are 
constraining sales activity. The outlook for the ne w year is best described as cautious; while most 
respondents are expecting some growth, none are pro jecting robust activity. A majority of 
builders announced price increases averaging 3 perc ent, which will go into effect at the start of 
2015. These increases will mainly cover rising cost s, including higher rates from subcontractors.       
Nonresidential builders reported pipeline activity generally ranging from moderate to 
robust, and they indicated that the level of activi ty has increased relative to a year ago. One 
builder commented that his customers feel more cert ain about risk-taking on high-value projects. 
For the most part, contractors are satisfied with t heir backlogs going into 2015. Market demand 
is broad based, although demand from manufacturers,  healthcare providers, and higher education 
is strongest. There has also been a pickup in reque sts for commercial space. Builders are 
optimistic in their outlook for 2015. We heard a fe w comments about widening margins and 
growing opportunities for developing spec buildings . Several contractors reported that they are 
increasing their capital budgets for 2015, mainly t o purchase heavy machinery.   
Building materials prices were stable other than fo r drywall and concrete, which have 
increased. The diesel fuel surcharge is being reduc ed or eliminated. New hiring has diminished 
appreciably since early November due to the onset o f winter weather. Several contractors 
reported that they are starting seasonal layoffs. U nless business conditions deteriorate, hiring will 
resume later in the first quarter. Wage pressures a re limited to craft workers and more 
experienced engineers and project managers. Subcont ractors are pushing through rate increases 
at a faster pace than general contractors had antic ipated; these increases are needed to cover 
rising costs, including for labor and to widen marg ins.   
Consumer Spending. Retailers reported that revenues from this year’s h oliday shopping 
season were slightly higher than those in 2013. Pro duct lines in highest demand included apparel, 
electronics, and physical fitness. Retailers contin ued to run a significant number of promotions, 
which for some store chains is narrowing profit mar gins. Reports on the impact of lower gasoline 
prices were mixed. Many of our contacts were uncert ain about sales expectations for the first 
quarter of 2015. Those making projections believe t hat same-store revenues will be only mildly 
higher year-over-year. Vendor and shelf prices held  steady, other than anticipated increases for 
dairy products. Capital spending for 2014 was in-li ne with budgeted amounts. Capital plans for 
fiscal year 2015 are still in process, but most ret ailers are projecting little change in budgeted 
amounts. Hiring is limited to new store openings.    
Year-to-date sales through November of new motor ve hicles were about 5 percent higher 
compared to the same time period in 2013. Across ma ny regions of the District, the share of 
SUV and truck sales was at its highest level of the  year during November. Luxury vehicle 
purchases also picked up. These strong sales were m ainly attributed to declining gasoline prices. 
Our contacts are satisfied with current inventory. Looking at 2015, dealers anticipate that the 
year-over-year change in unit volume will be positi ve, but increases will not be as strong as in 
IV-3 
 2014. There is some uncertainty as to the impact of  sustained lower gasoline prices on new 
motor vehicle transactions. Little change in payrol ls is expected during the winter months. 
Dealers continue to have difficulty finding skilled  labor, especially technicians.              
Banking. Bankers reported that demand for business credit ex hibited modest to moderate 
growth during the past six weeks. While demand was described as broad based, it was strongest 
for commercial real estate and commercial and indus trial loans. Consumer credit demand moved 
slightly higher, especially for auto loans and home  equity products. Households are making 
marginally greater use of credit cards. Though the pricing environment remains competitive, 
interest rates were mainly steady for business and consumer credit and for residential mortgages. 
Many of our respondents noted that activity in thei r residential mortgage business has declined 
considerably. One banker reported that nonbank enti ties seem to be the biggest source of growth 
in residential mortgages and that it is becoming le ss and less a part of his business. Delinquency 
rates were stable or improving across loan categori es. No changes were made to loan-application 
standards since the last report. Core deposits were  described as good or strong and growing. A 
majority of bankers indicated that payrolls are ris ing at a slight pace, especially in the areas of 
commercial lending, risk management, and regulatory  compliance. A few reported that they are 
beginning to feel some wage pressure and expect tha t it will intensify in 2015.             
Energy. Year-to-date coal production across the District is  slightly above prior-year 
levels. Output is projected to increase in Pennsylv ania and northern West Virginia with no 
material change expected in eastern Kentucky and Oh io. Low natural gas prices have been 
reducing demand for thermal coals domestically. Spo t prices for steam and metallurgical coal 
have declined since our last report. Activity in th e Marcellus and Utica shale formations remains 
at a high level. However, a sustained decline in oi l and gas prices may pose some downside risk 
to drilling and production, and it is uncertain wha t the effect will be on hiring and wages in the 
near term. Overall pricing for materials and equipm ent is down slightly during the past six 
weeks. Capital spending is projected to decline in 2015.        
Freight Transportation. Freight volume increased since our last report, wit h demand 
being described as broad based. Profit margins impr oved due to lower diesel fuel prices. 
Although capacity constraints remain an issue indus try-wide, carriers are encouraged by 
amendments to the hours-of-service rules that were included in the recently passed federal 
omnibus bill. Our contacts are optimistic in their outlook and they believe that strong growth 
trends should continue into 2015. A pickup in the n umber of consolidations within the freight 
industry is expected to continue. Little change in prices for parts and tires was reported. Capital 
spending in 2015 is projected to be strong, with mo nies being allocated for replacement and 
expansion. Hiring drivers is an ongoing process and  industry executives agree that their ability to 
attract and retain truck drivers is critical to the ir ability to expand capacity. 
 
V-1 
 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
Overview . The Fifth District economy expanded modestly sinc e our previous report. 
Manufacturing activity improved with somewhat highe r shipments and new orders. Retail sales grew 
moderately, while non-retail services revenues were  little changed. Tourism was at or above normal 
seasonal levels. In the finance sector, loan demand  rose slightly. Real estate activity increased at a  mild 
pace. District agribusiness contacts reported a sea sonal slowing, although business conditions are bet ter 
than last year at this time. Coal production remain ed at low levels. Natural gas production increased 
moderately in recent weeks and prices decreased sli ghtly. Labor demand rose since our previous report,  
led by growth in the Carolinas. According to our mo st recent surveys, manufacturing employment grew at  
a slightly faster pace while average wage growth sl owed somewhat. In the service sector, the rate of 
hiring moderated from the strong pace of a month ea rlier and wages generally rose modestly. Price 
increases in raw materials and finished goods slowe d in recent weeks. Retail prices also grew at a slo wer 
pace. In contrast, prices in the non-retail service  sector rose slightly faster. 
Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity advanced, but responses were  more uneven than in the 
previous report. Shipments and new orders grew mode stly, and expectations for the months ahead 
remained optimistic. Inventories of finished goods rose at a faster pace, and growth in inventories of  raw 
materials slowed. A source in West Virginia reporte d that some smaller manufacturers that supply 
materials to the natural gas industry were seeing s trong growth. A plastic resin and synthetic fiber 
manufacturer in South Carolina stated that his comp any was experiencing solid growth in sales across t he 
company’s various lines including aerospace, utilit ies, industrial materials, medical equipment, and 
telecommunications. On the other hand, a flooring m anufacturer in West Virginia reported that 
production slowed in the fourth quarter and sales w ere below a year ago. Manufacturers of primary 
metals, transportation equipment, electrical equipm ent, and machinery reported a slight slowdown in 
business since the previous report, but they expect ed better conditions in the months ahead. Prices of  raw 
materials and finished goods rose at a slightly slo wer pace in recent weeks. 
Ports.  Officials at the District’s major ports reported s trong growth in the volume of container 
traffic since the previous Beige Book. The volume o f imported loaded containers exceeded the exported 
volume. According to one port official, imports of appliances, apparel, and footwear increased more 
quickly. Auto imports remained solid at another por t, and imports of auto parts remained strong at all  
ports. Containerized grains and soybeans, as well a s dry animal proteins and dried distiller grains (f rom 
production of ethanol), continued to lead exports. Exports of auto parts and plastic resins grew more 
rapidly in recent weeks. Previously reported railro ad issues have eased somewhat. Port officials expre ssed 
concern that the strong dollar was affecting demand  for U.S. exports. 
V-2 
 Retail. Retail sales grew moderately since our previous rep ort. The manager at a Virginia 
discount chain store said that holiday sales of ele ctronics were strong, but that people were “still v ery 
conservative” in purchasing other goods. Another di scounter commented that holiday business was 
slightly slower than typical. The manager at a stor e offering a lay-away plan reported that the progra m did 
well this year but that an unusually large amount o f goods were returned to stock because customers we re 
unable to complete sales. In West Virginia, a sport ing goods store manager commented that online 
shopping had eroded his in-store sales. A central V irginia retail representative reported that adverti sing 
encouraging consumers to buy from local small retai lers had boosted November sales revenues, but that 
many had a decline in sales in December. A wholesal e foods executive commented that lower fuel prices 
reduced costs, helping to offset the effect of risi ng protein prices. Dealers stated that sales of aut os and 
light trucks remained strong since the last report.  Retail prices grew at a slower pace in recent week s. 
Services.  Services firms’ revenues were little changed since  the previous Beige Book. 
Professional, scientific, and technical firms repor ted that demand was unchanged from previously 
reported levels; hospitals also reported flat deman d. Trucking executives reported a normal seasonal s urge 
in demand and continuing difficulty finding drivers . Prices in the service sector rose slightly faster .  
Tourism was at or above normal seasonal levels in t he weeks since our prior report. A Baltimore 
hotel manager said that advance bookings were at ex pected levels, while an executive at a resort in th e 
North Carolina mountains reported that the entire f ourth quarter was very strong and advance bookings 
for 2015 were ahead of last year’s pace. In Virgini a and South Carolina, bookings were up, and a South  
Carolina hotelier commented that people were spendi ng more frequently on holiday parties. A contact on  
the outer banks of North Carolina stated that advan ce bookings were at typical levels, and current tou rist 
activity was “humming along.” Rental rates and hote l rates were generally unchanged. 
 Finance. Loan demand rose slightly since our most recent rep ort. Residential mortgage demand 
was mostly unchanged in the District, although ther e was some increased demand in Virginia and North 
Carolina. A lender in Virginia said that the favora ble rate environment had raised residential mortgag e 
demand and generated some growth in refinance lendi ng. Commercial and industrial lending was higher 
in the Carolinas, Virginia, and West Virginia. Lend ers in North Carolina and Virginia said that pipeli nes 
are growing and that most activity is new and not t aking away from other banks. Commercial lenders in 
South Carolina and Virginia noted an uptick in cons truction lending for multi-family projects. Demand 
for credit and capital investments also rose in Sou th Carolina, while mergers and acquisitions picked up in 
West Virginia. In contrast, a lender in Maryland sa id that banks had a lot of money to lend but not en ough 
demand. Competition remained strong among lenders, pulling rates slightly lower and tightening margins  
for banks. There were some reports of lower credit standards. Credit quality improved slightly accordi ng 
to contacts in Virginia and was unchanged elsewhere  in the District.  
V-3 
 Real Estate.  District housing market activity continued to incr ease at a modest pace since the 
previous report. However, Realtors in some location s reported slower buyer traffic and a slight decrea se 
in housing inventories. Average sale prices and ave rage days on the market varied. A Maryland contact 
reported gradual improvement in home sales state-wi de, and higher average home prices. A broker in 
Richmond stated that cash buyers remained very acti ve; he also reported some recent higher-end home 
sales aided by lower interest rates. Single-family housing construction increased slightly in the Caro linas 
and Virginia since the previous report. A South Car olina residential builder stated that the high-end 
market is bouncing back, and that new home prices i ncreased slightly. Multifamily construction and 
leasing remained active throughout the District. 
Activity in commercial real estate markets increase d modestly since the previous report. District 
Realtors reported slight increases in the amount of  retail leasing activity, but slower leasing activi ty in the 
office sector. Growth in rental rates varied by reg ion and submarket. Commercial sales increased and 
prices rose slightly. Sales of retail space improve d in Richmond, Virginia Beach, and Washington. A 
broker in Virginia Beach commented that the retail sector continued to firm up, with retail rental rat e 
growth and strengthening retail construction. A Cha rleston, West Virginia contact stated that office 
vacancy rates remained high and market activity was  unchanged since the previous report. On the other 
hand, a Columbia, South Carolina broker said that t he office sector has been “unreal” and noted an 
increase in rental rates. A Virginia condominium de veloper reported an increase in new construction. 
Additionally, a Realtor in Charlotte said that prev iously announced office construction projects “are 
coming out of the ground” and there is a lot of bus iness relocation activity.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources.  District agribusiness contacts reported seasonal s lowing 
since our previous Beige Book, although business co nditions are better than last year at this time. Se veral 
farmers stated that planting and harvesting were fi nished for the year, although harvesting completion  
dates were later than usual. Farmers in South Carol ina and Virginia reported no change in input prices  in 
the past six weeks and said that output prices were  generally unchanged. 
Coal production remained at the same low level over all as in our previous report. A contact stated 
that West Virginia coal production levels are down slightly year-over-year, except in the northern par t of 
the state, where production increased modestly in t he last six weeks. Coal prices are unchanged since our 
last report. Natural gas production increased moder ately in recent weeks, and prices decreased slightl y.  
Labor Markets.  Labor demand rose since our previous report, led b y growth in the Carolinas. 
Reports from Asheville and Raleigh, North Carolina were particularly strong, with new hiring focused i n 
software, professional and business services, manuf acturing, and hospitality. Modest increases in labo r 
demand were reported in Maryland and West Virginia,  mainly for cybersecurity experts in Maryland and 
for workers in manufacturing and natural gas in Wes t Virginia. Demand for labor in Virginia was little  
V-4 
 changed outside of seasonal increases. Contacts thr oughout the District continued to cite difficulties  
finding skilled workers in manufacturing, health ca re, IT, truck driving, and hospitality (especially in the 
culinary field). On balance, wage pressures were mi nimal, with a few industry-specific exceptions. 
According to our most recent surveys, manufacturing  employment grew at a slightly faster pace while 
average wage growth slowed somewhat. In the service  sector, the rate of hiring moderated from the stro ng 
pace of a month earlier. Average wages in the servi ce sector generally rose modestly. 
 
VI-1 
 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
 
Business contacts indicated that economic activity continued to improve for the Sixth 
District since the previous report.  The outlook am ong the majority of contacts was positive with 
most expecting higher growth for early 2015. 
District merchants noted holiday sales levels were solid for November and early reports 
for December indicate much the same.  Automobile sa les continued at a solid pace.  The 
hospitality sector reported a strong holiday season , continuing the level of activity that it had 
been experiencing all year long.  Residential housi ng brokers and builders noted that home sales 
growth was flat to slightly down from the previous month while home prices continued to 
appreciate.  Existing home inventories were flat fr om last month and new home inventories were 
flat to slightly up.  Commercial contractors descri bed construction activity as improving, with 
the multifamily segment of the market noted as part icularly strong.  Manufacturers indicated that 
overall activity strengthened since the previous re port.  On balance, banking contacts noted that 
loan demand improved.  The District continued to ex perience job gains across most sectors.  
Similar to the previous report, contacts noted only  mild cost pressures.   
Consumer Spending and Tourism.  District retail contacts appeared upbeat heading 
into the holiday season.  While sales on Black Frid ay were adequate, merchants indicated that 
pre-Thanksgiving discounting, online shopping, and stores opening on Thanksgiving Day, 
helped November end with solid results.  Early repo rts for December appeared strong and 
merchants expect the additional day of shopping bet ween Thanksgiving and Christmas to bode 
well for year-end results.  Motor vehicles sales we re robust as demand continued to grow.  
District auto dealers noted that customers were rea cting immediately to lower gasoline prices by 
purchasing new, larger vehicles. 
Reports on tourism and business travel remained pos itive from late November through 
December.  Tourism industry contacts reported a str ong holiday season with high occupancy 
numbers at hotels and resorts.  Hospitality contact s continued to report additional capital 
expenditures on tourism infrastructure as well as s trong advanced bookings for the first two 
quarters of 2015 in the hotel and conference segmen ts. 
Real Estate and Construction.  Most  District brokers indicated that home sales fell 
short of their plan for the period.  Many contacts noted that home sales were flat or down slightly 
VI-2 
 compared with a month earlier.  Brokers continued t o report modest home price appreciation.  
The majority of brokers indicated that inventory le vels remained flat from the prior month’s level 
and that buyer traffic was flat to down over the sa me period.  Brokers indicated that they expect 
home sales to remain flat or increase slightly over  the next three months.  
Incoming signals from District homebuilders were re latively unchanged since the last 
report.  Contacts characterized construction activi ty as flat from the previous month and new 
home sales were flat to down slightly over the same  period.  Most builders indicated that the 
inventory of unsold homes was flat to slightly up c ompared with a month earlier.  Modest home 
price appreciation continued to be reported.  Build ers’ outlook for new home sales and 
construction activity over the next three months wa s fairly positive, with most indicating that 
they expect activity to be flat to slightly up. 
Commercial real estate brokers across the District continued to report improving demand, 
though they cautioned that the rate of improvement varied by metropolitan area, submarket, and 
property type.  Commercial contractors noted contin ued strength in apartment construction and 
that the pace of nonresidential construction activi ty continued to increase modestly.  The outlook 
among District commercial real estate contacts rema ins fairly optimistic. 
Manufacturing and Transportation.  District manufacturers indicated that activity was 
solid, as the strong growth noted in the previous p eriod continued.  New orders and production 
remained at healthy levels, and contacts reported n otable increases in employment.  Supplier 
delivery times slowed and commodity prices increase d modestly.  Optimism among 
manufacturers rose notably since the last reporting  period, with over half of contacts expecting 
productions levels to increase over the next three to six months.     
District transportation contacts reported slightly higher activity from late November 
through December compared with year earlier levels.   Trucking and logistics contacts noted 
significant increases in demand; however, capacity constraints due to a lack of drivers continued 
to hinder growth.  Railroad contacts reported doubl e-digit increases in shipments of grain, 
petroleum products, metallic ores, and military, ma chinery and transportation equipment.  
However, total rail traffic was flat compared with the previous reporting period.  Maritime 
shippers cited significant capital expenditures in vessel capacity, including barges and petroleum 
tankers, as well as increased investments in LNG-po wered ships.  District ports experienced 
VI-3 
 significant growth in container traffic compared wi th the same period last year.  The majority of 
transportation contacts expect higher growth in 201 5. 
Banking and Finance.  Credit conditions were largely unchanged from the p revious 
reporting period.  Contacts reported large business es had easy access to credit; small businesses 
were experiencing small improvements in their abili ty to access credit.  Loan demand increased 
among most lines of business.  Loan pricing and str ucture remained competitive.   
Employment and Prices.  Businesses reported that the reluctance to hire was  waning 
somewhat in the face of continued increases in dema nd.  In November, Sixth District states 
added 49,500 net jobs.  Job gains were fairly wides pread across sectors, though retail contributed 
the most jobs.  The unemployment rate in the Sixth District declined 0.2 percentage point to 6.4 
percent in November.  Reports of high turnover rate s were more prevalent since the previous 
report, with many firms offering improved benefits,  notably health care, as an employee 
retention device.  In addition, the conversion of p art-time workers to full-time accelerated as 
businesses tried to meet increased product demand a nd boost employee loyalty. 
Businesses continued to cite little input cost pres sure and limited pricing power, with 
some notable exceptions in commercial construction,  transportation, real estate, and food.  The 
Atlanta Fed’s December survey of business inflation  expectations indicated that firms’ year 
ahead unit cost expectations were essentially uncha nged at 1.9 percent.  Contacts also expressed 
a slight shift in their assessment of labor cost pr essures over the coming year with a growing 
number of firms reporting acceleration in compensat ion budgets for 2015.  Some firms conveyed 
they were increasing starting pay or planning to mo ve above minimum wage in an effort to 
attract and retain their workforce.  Conversely, se veral employers also reported that where 
possible, they were holding down base pay and inste ad adding benefits or performance bonuses.   
Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Supply of crude oil and natural gas continued to 
outpace demand, leading to high inventory levels ac ross the Gulf Coast.  Industry contacts in the 
energy sector reported that the downturn in the pri ce of oil has influenced their outlook and 
strategic planning for 2015, including a heightened  focus on cost management, more prudent 
investments, and faster, more efficient drilling te chniques.  Exploration and production firms 
shared plans to continue drilling operations across  the Gulf Coast and in Louisiana in 2015, 
though they intend to approach projects more cautio usly.  The same goes for oil service 
VI-4 
 companies in the region, which are evaluating cost reduction strategies if low energy prices are 
sustained. 
While the District experienced varying degrees of d rought ranging from abnormally dry 
conditions to a few areas of severe drought, some a reas of Alabama, Georgia, and the Florida 
panhandle saw some moderate improvement in drought conditions.  Protein producers that rely 
on corn for feed reported improved margins because of continuing low corn prices.  The most 
recent cotton and orange crop forecasts were slight ly higher than last season’s production. 
 
VII-1 
 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO 
Summary.   Growth in economic activity in the Seventh Distri ct remained moderate in 
December, and contacts expected growth to continue at a similar pace in 2015. Consumer 
spending, business spending, and manufacturing prod uction all increased moderately, while 
construction and real estate activity increased mod estly. Credit conditions were little changed on 
balance. Prices were also little changed with the e xception of energy and some agricultural 
commodities. 
Consumer spending.   Growth in consumer spending remained moderate in December. 
Overall, holiday sales slightly exceeded expectatio ns as consumers benefitted from generous 
promotions, advantageous weather conditions, and lo wer gasoline prices. Growth was robust for 
apparel, footwear, hobby items, specialty gifts, sp orting goods, and toys, but was slower for the 
food and beverage sectors. Light vehicle sales incr eased steadily in recent weeks. Auto dealers 
reported that accommodative financing terms continu ed to spur sales and that lower gas prices 
were leading consumers to shift purchases toward tr ucks and SUVs and away from cars. In 
general, retailers expect sales growth to remain mo derate in 2015, supported by the improving 
job market and the prospect of continued lower ener gy prices. 
Business spending.  Business spending also continued to grow at a moder ate pace in 
December. Most retailers reported comfortable inven tory levels, though some noted that stocks 
of winter-related items were slightly elevated beca use of the mild weather in the early winter. 
Inventories also were at comfortable levels for mos t manufacturers, though one contact noted 
that inventories of farm tractors were elevated, le ading agricultural equipment manufacturers to 
offer special financing and extended warranty progr ams to lure buyers. Capital expenditures and 
spending plans continued to rise. Outlays were aime d primarily at replacing industrial and IT 
equipment, though many contacts also reported spend ing for capacity expansion. Hiring 
increased and contacts expected job growth to conti nue in the coming year. There was ongoing 
strong demand for skilled workers, particularly for  those in professional and technical 
occupations and skilled manufacturing and building trades. In addition, a staffing firm reported 
an increase in demand for its services from small- and medium-sized businesses. 
Construction and real estate.   Construction and real estate activity increased m odestly 
in December. Demand for residential construction wa s little changed in both the single- and 
VII-2 
 multi-family markets. Although homebuilders were op timistic about the overall economy, many 
were concerned that the housing sector would contin ue to lag in 2015. Home prices and 
residential rents both increased, while the pace of  home sales slowed. Real estate contacts 
forecasted flat or modest growth in home sales in 2 015. Nonresidential construction increased, 
driven in large part by demand for industrial and o ffice buildings. Commercial real estate activity 
expanded broadly –vacancies ticked down, rents rose, and leasing of i ndustrial buildings, office 
space, and retail space all increased. 
Manufacturing.   Manufacturing continued to grow at a moderate pac e in December. 
Activity in the auto, aerospace, and energy industr ies remained a source of strength for the 
District. Demand for inputs for oil and gas product ion remained strong, boosted by projects 
begun before the fall in oil prices. An energy indu stry contact noted that given the typical lag 
between prices and production, activity should begi n to slow in the second quarter of 2015. 
Demand for steel rose steadily, with expectations f or continued growth in 2015. Most specialty 
metals manufacturers reported steady gains in order s and solid order books, and some contacts 
indicated a surprisingly high level of activity dur ing the typically slow holiday season. In 
contrast, demand for heavy machinery grew slowly, t hough there were marked differences across 
product categories: Sales of construction machinery  continued to grow at a moderate rate, while 
sales of agricultural and mining equipment remained  weak. 
Banking/finance.   Credit conditions were little changed on balance in December. 
Financial market volatility stabilized after spikin g during the prior reporting period, while equity 
markets moved higher. Business loan demand was stea dy, and credit line utilization remained 
elevated for middle market firms. Banking contacts noted the fall in oil prices as a source of 
medium-term uncertainty for business lending, with downside risk to loan quality for firms in the 
oil supply chain. Demand for auto loans increased i n line with expectations, and a contact noted 
a significant spike in credit card applications. In  general, banking contacts viewed current 
conditions as favorable for continued growth in bus iness and consumer lending in 2015. 
Prices/costs.  With the exception of falling energy prices, cost p ressures were little 
changed in December. Most contacts reported no chan ge in prices, while retailers noted some 
downward price pressure. Of the few contacts report ing price increases, most cited rising labor 
costs as a driver. Many contacts noted that skilled  labor was in short supply, and wage pressures 
continued for such workers. Wage pressures remained  less pronounced for unskilled workers, but 
VII-3 
 a staffing firm noted that it was working with clie nts to raise contract wages in an effort to 
reduce labor force turnover. Non-wage costs changed  little on balance, though a number of 
contacts again reported rising healthcare costs.  
Agriculture.   Corn and wheat prices rose during the reporting p eriod, while soybean 
prices were flat. Wheat prices were up because of d rought and cold snaps in areas producing 
winter wheat and because of limits by the Russian g overnment on exports. The record harvest 
had created concerns about sufficient crop storage space, but reports indicated that enough space 
was available. Shipping delays eased too, allowing stocks to move more smoothly to end users. 
The late extension of beneficial tax deductions wil l give a boost to after-tax agricultural income 
in 2014. Low crop prices led farmers to focus on mi nimizing costs instead of maximizing output 
in 2015, so that they purchased fewer and lower cos t inputs. In addition, rental terms for some 
cropland were under pressure because farmers would not make enough to cover their costs next 
year. Ethanol margins compressed with the drop in o il prices. Hog and milk output was higher 
than expected, leading to further price decreases. Cattle prices were little changed, but became 
more volatile. 
 
VIII-1 
 Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
The pace of economic growth in the Eighth District was slightly faster than the pace 
reported in the previous Beige Book. Early holiday sales reports from retail contacts have 
indicated an increase relative to a year ago. Repor ts from auto dealers have generally been 
positive. Recent reports of planned activity in man ufacturing and services have also been 
positive, on net, since the previous survey. Overal l, residential real estate markets have remained 
weak, while commercial and industrial market condit ions have continued to be mixed. Lending 
at a sample of small and midsized banks increased f rom mid-September to mid-December. 
Consumer Spending 
Anecdotal reports from retail contacts indicated th at consumer demand has grown since 
the previous reporting period. Retail contacts attr ibuted growth to low gas prices, improving 
regional labor markets, and low interest rates. Add itionally, initial reports indicated that holiday 
sales throughout the District have been higher than  last year’s holiday sales. Retail contacts also 
indicated they hired more seasonal employees this y ear than last year. 
Auto dealers reported that end-of-year sales remain ed above goals—although one contact 
reported that sales were more sluggish in recent mo nths than in the third quarter. Contacts noted 
that inventories of luxury cars are increasing fast er than sales for some dealers. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Plans for manufacturing activity remained positive in the most recent reporting period. 
Firms in chemicals, aviation, packaging, and light machinery plan to hire new employees and 
expand operations in the Eighth District. In contra st, firms that manufacture furniture and paper 
reported plans to lay off workers or close faciliti es. Hiring plans among food manufacturers were 
mixed. 
VIII-2 
 Plans for activity in the District’s service sector  have also remained positive. Firms in 
logistics and information technology services repor ted new hiring and expansion plans in the 
District. In contrast, firms in courier, building m aintenance, and business support services plan to 
lay off employees. Reports from firms in healthcare  services were mixed. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales decreased in the Eighth District on a ye ar-over-year basis. Compared with the 
same month in 2013, November 2014 monthly home sale s were down 11 percent in Louisville, 1 
percent in Little Rock, 9 percent in Memphis, and 2  percent in St. Louis. Residential construction 
declined in the majority of the District metro area s. November 2014 year-to-date single-family 
housing permits decreased in the majority of the Di strict metro areas compared with the same 
period in 2013. Permits decreased 9 percent in Loui sville, 16 percent in Little Rock, and 5 
percent in St. Louis. Permits increased 2 percent i n Memphis. 
Commercial and industrial real estate market condit ions in the District have continued to 
be mixed. A contact in Louisville reported modest i mprovement in the office space market. A 
contact in Little Rock expressed concern regarding occupancy rates in the downtown office 
market. In contrast, a contact in Memphis noted str ong leasing activity in the office market and a 
contact in St. Louis noted that tightening industri al market conditions are placing upward 
pressure on asking rents. Commercial and industrial  construction has also been mixed throughout 
the District. A contact in Louisville reported that  a large employer has finalized plans for a 
distribution center near Jeffersontown, Kentucky. A  contact in Little Rock reported that work on 
Arkansas’s first outlet mall in southwest Little Ro ck will begin in January 2015. Contacts in 
Memphis noted that its access to rail, water, and a ir transportation continues to encourage large 
employers to build distribution centers and retail stores in the area. A contact in St. Louis 
reported that a major employer recently broke groun d on a new production facility. 
VIII-3 
 Banking and Finance 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mi dsized District banks increased 1.2 
percent from mid-September to mid-December. Real es tate loans, which account for 71.1 percent 
of total loans, increased 0.6 percent over this per iod. Commercial and industrial loans, which 
account for 16.3 percent of total loans, increased 3.0 percent over the period. Loans to 
individuals, which account for 5.4 percent of total  loans, increased 2.9 percent over the period. 
All other loans, which account for 7.3 percent of t otal loans, increased 1.8 percent over the 
period. During this period, total deposits at these  banks increased 2.5 percent. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
As of late November, about 96 percent of the Distri ct winter wheat crop was rated in fair 
or better condition. On average, 81 percent of the winter wheat crop had emerged across the 
District. A rate slightly below the 5-year average progress rate for this time of year. The majority 
of the slowdown was attributed to planting delays i n Illinois because of wet weather conditions 
in October. Year-to-date red meat production in the  District was 8.7 percent lower in November 
2014 than in the same month last year. This decline  was driven primarily by lower production in 
Illinois, Indiana, and Missouri, which collectively  produce around 89 percent of the District’s red 
meat output. Year-to-date coal production in the Di strict was 2.8 percent higher in November 
2014 than in the same month last year; coal product ion for November 2014 was about 3.2 
percent higher than in November 2013. 
IX-1 
 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
Overall, the Ninth District economy grew at a modes t pace since the previous report. Increased 
activity was noted in consumer spending, profession al services, manufacturing, and non-energy 
mining. Activity was level in tourism and mixed in commercial construction, commercial real 
estate, and agriculture. Energy, residential real e state, and residential construction were down. 
Labor markets continued to tighten since the previo us report. While overall wage increases 
remained modest, there were examples of steeper inc reases in some regions and industries. 
Overall price increases were modest, but some decre ases were noted.  
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Consumer spending increased moderately. A Minneapol is area mall reported heavy traffic early 
in the holiday season, followed by steady traffic l ater in the season; overall traffic and sales were 
flat to slightly higher compared with the previous year. A Montana mall reported strong sales 
activity the week before Christmas, with overall sa les up nearly 10 percent compared with a year 
earlier. A representative of a retailers’ associati on was optimistic about the holiday shopping 
season in North Dakota, based on reports of strong traffic at stores. A poll of Minnesota retailers 
taken after Thanksgiving weekend showed that half o f respondents expected the holiday season 
to finish better than the previous year, with the b alance mostly expecting sales similar to 2013. 
An auto dealer in Minnesota noted strong sales in D ecember, particularly for corporate vehicle 
fleets.  
Overall tourism was about level with a year ago. Af ter an early snowfall and an early 
start to winter sports, warm weather reduced winter  tourism in some areas during December. 
Low snowpack slowed snowmobiling and cross country skiing in northwestern Wisconsin, 
according to an official. Lift ticket and lodging s ales were on par with a year ago, and future 
bookings were strong at a Montana ski resort. Touri sm in western South Dakota was up slightly 
compared with a year ago. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction activity was mixed. In Siou x Falls, S.D., the value of November 
commercial permits increased from a year ago. In Bi llings, Mont., commercial permits decreased 
in value in November from a year earlier. Residenti al construction activity in the District was 
down compared with a year ago. In the Minneapolis-S t. Paul area, the value of December 
residential permits decreased 9 percent compared wi th December 2013. In November 2014, 
residential permits dropped in the Bismarck, N.D., area from November 2013. November single-
IX-2 
 family residential building permits in Billings inc reased in value from the previous year, but 
multifamily permits decreased in value. The value o f November residential permits in Sioux 
Falls increased from a year earlier.  
 Activity in commercial real estate markets was mix ed since the previous report. A real 
estate analytics firm noted that occupancy rates an d revenue per available room were expected to 
drop from the third quarter to the fourth quarter o f 2014 in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. A 
Minnesota property manager noted increased leasing activity for retail and office properties 
during the reporting period. Residential real estat e market activity decreased from a year earlier. 
In the Sioux Falls area, November home sales were d own 12 percent, inventory increased 1 
percent, and the median sales price increased 6 per cent relative to a year earlier. November home 
sales in northwestern Wisconsin were down from a ye ar earlier; the median sales price was down 
6 percent. Minnesota home sales were down 13 percen t in November from a year earlier, the 
inventory of homes for sale increased 5 percent, an d the median sales price rose 3 percent. 
November home sales in the Bismarck area were about  level with the same period a year ago. 
Services 
Activity at professional business services firms in creased since the previous report. A law firm in 
the Minneapolis area noted a recent significant inc rease in merger and acquisition activity among 
small startup firms. A logistics consulting firm in  Minnesota noted increased billings since the 
previous report. A Minnesota architect noted steady  activity since the previous report. 
Manufacturing 
Manufacturing activity increased slightly. A manufa cturing index released by Creighton 
University (Omaha, Neb.) increased in December from  the previous month in Minnesota and 
South Dakota, but it fell slightly in North Dakota.  However, the index remained at levels 
consistent with expansion in activity in all three states. Through October, manufactured exports in 
District states were up 1 percent compared with the  same period a year earlier. A producer of 
commercial windows noted that demand for its produc ts doubled in the last six months. 
Energy and Mining 
The energy sector slowed slightly in response to lo wer output prices. Oil and gas exploration 
activity decreased in late December compared with a  month earlier in Montana and North Dakota. 
However, a company announced plans for four new die sel and natural gas processing plants in 
North Dakota. Mining activity increased slightly. D istrict iron ore mines were operating at near 
capacity, with production in November slightly high er than its level a year earlier. 
IX-3 
 Agriculture 
Overall agricultural conditions remained mixed sinc e the previous report, with livestock and dairy 
producers faring better than crop farmers. Accordin g to the Minneapolis Fed’s third-quarter 
(October) survey of agricultural credit conditions,  69 percent of respondents said farm incomes 
had fallen from a year earlier, while 63 percent re ported decreases in capital spending. The fourth 
quarter outlook was weaker, as 81 percent of lender s expected farm incomes to fall, while 77 
percent expected capital spending to decrease from a year earlier. Prices received by farmers in 
December decreased from a year earlier for corn, so ybeans, wheat, hay, and milk; prices increased 
for cattle, hogs, eggs, and poultry. 
Employment, Wages, and Prices 
Labor markets continued to tighten since the previo us report. In Minnesota, a bank announced 
plans to hire up to 3,000 new employees companywide  in 2015. A holiday seasonal retailer in the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul area reported increased diffic ulty finding workers. A contact in the Upper 
Peninsula of Michigan noted difficulty finding skil led construction workers. Lower oil prices led 
to an overall slowing in hiring in the energy produ cing regions of North Dakota and Montana, but 
labor conditions remained tight. Contacts noted a c ontinued shortage of truck drivers. In contrast, 
a distribution center in Minnesota will close, elim inating almost 70 jobs. 
While overall wage increases remained modest, there  were examples of steeper increases 
in some regions and industries. Some construction f irms in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area noted 
that labor costs have increased recently. In additi on, some managers at Minneapolis-St. Paul area 
restaurants indicated that they were increasing wag es to attract employees. An assisted living 
facility in eastern North Dakota was offering $10,0 00 signing bonuses to fill positions for nurses, 
according to a report. 
Overall price increases were modest, but some decre ases were noted. Minnesota gasoline 
prices at the end of December were 75 cents per gal lon lower than in mid-November and a dollar 
per gallon lower than a year ago. Metals prices gen erally decreased since the previous report. 
X-1 
 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY 
The Tenth District economy continued to grow slight ly in December, and most contacts 
expected moderate growth over the coming months. Co nsumer spending slowed slightly as retail, 
auto, and tourism sales experienced a decline. Howe ver, contacts anticipated an increase in 
consumer spending in the coming months. District ma nufacturing and other business activity 
increased slightly with a moderate expansion of fac tory production for durable goods 
accompanied by sluggish factory production for nond urable goods. Real estate activity continued 
to edge up, with a moderate rise in commercial real  estate activity offsetting seasonally sluggish 
residential real estate activity. Contacts in the b anking industry reported a slight increase in 
overall loan demand, stable loan quality, and stead y deposit levels. Agricultural growing 
conditions were favorable, with improved soil moist ure in many parts of the District and a winter 
wheat crop that was rated in mostly good condition.  The District’s energy sector slowed in 
December and was expected to slow further in respon se to lower energy prices. Contacts in most 
industries continued to note a modest rise in overa ll prices with a slight acceleration in wages 
primarily due to labor shortages.   
Consumer Spending. Consumer spending slowed slightly in December, but activity 
remained higher than a year ago with solid expectat ions for the coming months. Retail sales 
declined from the previous survey and were lower th an a year ago. Several retailers noted a drop 
in sales of high-end products, although sales of ho me improvement items were steady. 
Expectations for future sales moderated but remaine d positive, and inventory levels were 
expected to drop considerably. Auto sales decreased , but at a slower rate than in the previous 
survey. However, auto sales remained higher than ye ar-ago levels, and dealer contacts expected 
moderate growth in the months ahead. Auto inventori es continued to rise, with further increases 
expected. Restaurant sales improved in December and  were moderately above year-ago levels, 
with further growth anticipated in coming months. D istrict tourism activity declined modestly, 
although activity was higher than a year ago and co ntacts expected strong growth for the 
remainder of the winter ski season.   
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. District manufacturing and other business 
X-2 
 activity increased slightly in December. Factory pr oduction expanded at a moderate pace, 
particularly for electronics, aircraft, and machine ry products, while nondurable goods production 
remained sluggish. Contacts reported marked gains i n factory shipments and new orders, and 
expectations for future factory activity remained a t solid levels. Manufacturers’ capital spending 
plans increased modestly from the previous survey, and export orders were expected to rise 
moderately. Transportation firms reported weaker ac tivity, although sales were similar to year-
ago levels with moderately higher expectations for future months. Professional, high-tech, and 
wholesale trade contacts noted a slight increase in  sales from the previous survey, but the pace of 
growth was expected to slow somewhat in coming mont hs. Most businesses reported solid 
growth in capital spending plans. 
Real Estate and Construction.  District real estate activity continued to edge up  as 
stronger commercial real estate activity offset sea sonally sluggish residential real estate activity. 
Expectations for overall real estate activity were positive. Residential home sales decreased 
moderately compared to the previous survey period, partially due to typical seasonal sales 
patterns. Sales of low- and medium-priced homes con tinued to outpace sales of higher-priced 
homes; however, a few contacts reported an increasi ng volume of mid- to higher-priced homes 
sales. Home prices continued to increase modestly s ince the previous survey period as 
inventories fell further. Expectations for resident ial home sales and prices were positive as 
inventories were anticipated to continue to decline  modestly. Residential construction activity 
decreased modestly, and traffic of potential buyers  was flat. Housing starts fell modestly, and 
sales of construction supply materials were moderat ely below previous survey levels. 
Commercial real estate activity continued to increa se at a moderate pace, and contacts reported 
lower vacancy rates and higher absorption rates, co mpletions, sales, prices, and rents. The 
commercial real estate market was expected to conti nue to expand moderately over the coming 
months.  
Banking. Bankers reported a slight increase in overall loan demand, stable loan quality, 
and steady deposit levels through December. Half of  respondents reported increasing demand for 
commercial and industrial loans, while the other ha lf noted steady demand. Most respondents 
reported steady demand for agricultural, consumer i nstallment, and commercial real estate loans. 
Demand for residential real estate loans remained m ixed. Most bankers indicated loan quality 
X-3 
 was unchanged compared to a year ago, and a majorit y of bankers expected the outlook for loan 
quality to remain the same over the next six months . Credit standards remained largely 
unchanged in all major loan categories. In addition , deposit levels remained mostly constant, 
with more bankers reporting increasing deposit leve ls than during the last survey. 
Agriculture.  Agricultural growing conditions were generally fav orable in December, and 
crop prices rose modestly. Although some western ar eas of Kansas and Oklahoma remained dry, 
scattered rains improved soil moisture in many part s of the District and the winter wheat crop 
was rated in mostly good condition. Wheat prices in creased modestly amid global supply 
concerns due to limits on Russian grain exports and  lower production estimates in Australia. 
Corn and soybean prices also rose modestly since th e last survey period due, in part, to a slight 
downward revision in 2014 U.S. production estimates . In the livestock sector, weaker export 
demand for pork placed downward pressure on hog pri ces. High feeder cattle prices prompted 
some producers to feed cattle to heavier weights to  boost profit margins.  
 Energy. The District’s energy industry slowed in December. Most respondents reported 
lower drilling activity, and demand for oilfield se rvices fell. Oil rigs decreased marginally while 
natural gas rigs increased. Future drilling activit y, employment, and capital expenditures were 
projected to be significantly lower in response to lower oil prices. The price of oil dropped to 
half of its June peak and was projected to fall fur ther through early 2015. Firms’ opinions were 
mixed about oil prices one year out, but on average  they expected a rebound of 15 to 20 dollars 
per barrel from year-end 2014 levels. Moderate temp eratures and higher production pulled down 
the natural gas spot price over the reporting perio d, with future decreases expected. A few firms 
reported increased difficulties accessing credit du e to lower oil prices. 
Wages and Prices. Prices in most industries continued to grow modestl y in December, 
and wage growth accelerated slightly, with many con tacts citing labor shortages. Retail prices 
rose moderately, and restaurant menu prices continu ed to increase due to higher input costs. 
Manufacturers’ raw materials prices increased, alth ough at a much slower pace, while finished 
goods prices were unchanged from the previous surve y period. Transportation input prices were 
flat in December after declining during the previou s survey period, while selling prices in the 
sector remained unchanged. Construction materials p rices remained steady, but most contacts 
anticipated a slight rise in the months ahead. Wage s in the retail sector continued to increase 
during the holiday season, and transportation conta cts noted higher wages due to difficulties 
X-4 
 acquiring CDL drivers. Nearly all contacts reported  increased labor costs as a result of new 
healthcare regulations. Respondents noted a particu lar shortage in skilled machinists, engineers, 
IT developers, and a sustained shortage of truck dr ivers. 
XI-1 
 ELEVENTH DISTRICT —DALLAS 
 
 The Eleventh District economy expanded at a slight ly slower pace over the past six weeks than in 
the previous report. Manufacturing activity continu ed to increase. Retailers and automobile dealers sa w 
steady or higher sales. Growth in loan demand picke d up, and demand for nonfinancial services was 
stable or improved. Home sales grew, and apartment and office leasing activity remained strong. Demand  
for oilfield services declined modestly, while agri culture conditions improved a little. Upward price and 
wage pressures moderated slightly. Employment in mo st industries held steady, but there were some 
layoffs. There was more uncertainty and generally l ess optimism in outlooks than in the prior report, with 
contacts across several industries expressing conce rn about the impact of lower oil prices on the Dist rict 
economy. 
 Prices    Most responding firms said prices held steady ov er the last six weeks, with fewer 
instances of firms raising prices than in the previ ous report. Retailers and auto dealers noted steady  prices, 
and accounting and legal firms said billing rates w ere unchanged since the prior report but higher tha n a 
year ago. Prices and fees generally moved up across  the staffing industry in part due to higher costs.  One 
primary metals manufacturer said they were finally able to pass through a slight price increase, while  food 
and fabricated metals producers noted continued inc reases. Other manufacturers generally reported stab le 
prices. Cement, glass, and brick manufacturers note d plans to raise prices in 2015. There were reports  of 
lower cotton, dairy, and meat prices, and a few con tacts said energy firms were requesting discounts o n 
machinery pricing. 
The price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell  sharply over the reporting period, as global 
supply growth met softer international demand. The price of natural gas dropped, as did gasoline and o n-
highway diesel prices.  
 Labor Market    Reports of hiring were slightly less widespread than in the prior report, and there 
were scattered reports of layoffs. A few energy fir ms reported hiring freezes and layoffs. Staffing fi rms, 
auto dealers, and cement, high-tech, and fabricated  metals manufacturers reported increased payrolls. 
Retailers mostly noted flat employment levels, but one contact reported ongoing hiring in line with sa les 
growth. Construction contacts continued to report a  tight labor market.  
Reports of rising wage pressures were less prevalen t than in the previous report. Staffing services 
firms noted continued wage pressures, particularly for certain sectors and positions, although one fir m 
said companies continued to resist wage increases. Upward wage pressure on semi-skilled positions in 
manufacturing eased, but contacts noted continued p ressure for high-skilled labor mostly in high-tech and 
food manufacturing. Airlines reported higher salari es, and one brick manufacturer said they plan to 
increase wages in the near future. 
XI-2 
 Manufacturing   Most manufacturers noted stable or higher demand si nce the last report, and 
outlooks were positive. Reports on demand growth fr om lumber, cement, glass, and brick manufacturers 
were mixed, but all contacts noted that business wa s up from a year ago. Primary metals producers saw a 
seasonal dip in demand, while fabricated metals man ufacturers continued to note increases.  
High-tech manufacturers said overall demand held st eady over the last six weeks, but they noted 
that demand for high-speed processors, in particula r, picked up recently. Respondents expect sales gro wth 
in 2015 to be slower compared with the past several  years, but to remain well above the long-term tren d. 
They also anticipate growth in electronic devices t o outperform the rest of the industry.  
Food producers said demand was unchanged over the r eporting period and flat from a year ago. 
Chemical producers reported higher production rates  in November compared with year-ago levels. Gulf 
Coast chemical manufacturers, who use natural gas t o fuel their operations, said the lower price of oi l has 
narrowed their competitive edge over their foreign competitors that rely more on oil for production. T his 
development, combined with weaker global demand and  a strong dollar has led to a decline in exports of  
chemical products. Refinery utilization rates incre ased, and outlooks for refiners and chemical 
manufacturers remained positive. 
Retail Sales    Retail demand grew during the reporting period, but reports on the pace of growth 
were mixed. Two national retailers said Texas’ sale s performance was a bit slower than the nation over all, 
while a third national retailer noted Texas was in line with the national average. Black Friday weeken d 
sales were in line with or above retailers’ expecta tions. Contacts reported uncertainty in their outlo oks for 
2015 partly due to lower oil prices and possible pr ice declines for some meats, produce, and 
pharmaceuticals.  
 Automobile sales held steady or increased slightly , and demand was up from a year ago. 
Inventories were generally high because of the low cost of carrying inventory. Some auto dealers were 
front loading inventory of Ford trucks as the new m odel will be slow to roll out. Outlooks for 2015 we re 
positive. 
Nonfinancial Services    Most nonfinancial services firms reported flat o r higher demand and 
positive outlooks. Reports on demand for staffing s ervices were mixed, with some contacts noting stron g 
increases, while others noted a slight decline. One  staffing firm noted a slowdown in hiring in Housto n. 
All skills were in demand, with one contact reporti ng a significant increase in orders from the 
engineering, IT, and finance sectors. The accountin g sector continued to operate at high levels of act ivity, 
and year-over-year growth was nearly in the double digits according to most responding firms. Demand 
for legal services increased slightly, but one firm  said their Houston office experienced a slight dip  in 
activity. Litigation activity remained slow. Bankru ptcy work was beginning to pick up, and one contact  
reported that an oil and gas firm was looking into bankruptcy options. Legal services to financial 
XI-3 
 practices, particularly in private equity, continue d to grow but contacts said that activity may slow next 
year if oil prices remain low.  
Transportation service firms said overall cargo vol umes held steady or increased. Shipping cargo 
volumes increased, boosted by notable growth in ste el tonnage, and trucking firms reported stable 
demand. Airlines said passenger demand held steady since the previous report but was up slightly from a 
year ago. Domestic airline demand remained strong, and outlooks were positive. 
Construction and Real Estate   Home sales grew at a steady to slightly slower pace  since the 
last report, and sales were generally even with las t year's levels. Builders were slowly building up t heir 
inventory of speculative homes, but some contacts s aid that their appetite for land has declined. Home  
prices continued to edge upwards, and several respo ndents reported pushback from buyers on pricing. 
Outlooks were cautiously optimistic. Apartment dema nd remained strong. Occupancy rates, although still  
high, saw a slight seasonal dip. Rent growth stayed  solid in Dallas and Houston, but was starting to c ool 
off in Austin. Outlooks were generally positive, bu t some contacts said they had revised down their 20 15 
outlook for Houston. 
Office leasing activity remained strong, but one co ntact noted a slight pull back in demand from 
oil and gas firms. Industrial demand was solid in H ouston but slowed in Dallas. A few contacts said th at 
investors are taking a wait-and-see approach becaus e of the steep decline in oil prices. Outlooks were  
positive, but there was some concern about the elev ated level of construction in the Houston office an d 
Dallas industrial markets. 
Financial Services    Overall loan demand accelerated slightly since t he previous report. Growth 
in consumer lending picked up, and business lending  outside of the oil and gas sector increased. In 
contrast, community banks in areas focused on oil a nd gas said they were seeing some signs of slowing.  
Demand for multifamily housing continued to drive g rowth in commercial real estate lending, but one 
contact said that their lending standards are becom ing pickier. Outlooks remained optimistic, but cont acts 
were concerned that sustained low oil prices may sl ow Texas growth in 2015. 
Energy    Demand for oilfield services fell in the Elevent h District. Declines were concentrated in 
the Permian Basin as firms moved away from traditio nal vertical drilling, but the Eagle Ford and other  oil 
basins in the District also saw a slight drop off i n activity. Outlooks for the first half of 2015 are  very 
uncertain and significantly weaker than in the prio r reporting period, with firms expecting anywhere f rom 
a 15 to 40 percent decline in demand for their serv ices. 
 Agriculture    Agricultural conditions improved slightly, but l arge portions of the state remain in 
drought. Harvesting has wrapped up for all row crop s, except cotton, which has been slow this year and  is 
nearing completion. Winter wheat has been planted a nd some areas look good with ample moisture 
received, while other areas need more rain to yield  a decent crop and good grazing conditions. Cattle 
XI-4 
 prices have declined slightly but remain near recor d highs. Dairy prices are markedly lower due to 
increased global production.  
XII-1 
 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
 Economic activity in the Twelfth District continue d to improve moderately during the reporting 
period of mid-November through late December 2014. Overall price and wage inflation remained modest. 
Retail sales and demand for business and consumer s ervices increased moderately. Overall manufacturing  
activity picked up, while agricultural conditions w ere mixed. Real estate activity advanced, mainly in  the 
commercial construction sector. Lending activity wa s mixed. 
Prices and Wages 
Overall price inflation remained modest during the reporting period. In general, input costs were 
fairly stable. However, increases in the cost of va rious construction materials were widespread. Short ages 
of truck drivers contributed to increases in shippi ng costs in some areas, even amid fuel price declin es. 
Supply constraints boosted wholesale prices of prod uce and meat. Effects on retail prices tended to be  
minimal, but selected areas saw significant jumps. Wholesale prices of agricultural commodities, such as 
grains, were stable or declined. Oil price declines  contributed to a drop in prices in the energy-inte nsive 
aluminum production sector. Vigorous online competi tion exerted downward price pressures in selected 
retail clothing segments.  
In general, wages continued to increase at a modest  pace during the reporting period. Several 
contacts reported that wages were flat or had incre ased at about the rate of price inflation in their area. 
Labor shortages boosted wages of truck drivers, aer ospace engineers, and  construction machinists and 
framers. Regarding total compensation, some contact s noted that  increases in employee medical insurance 
premiums tended to offset any increases in wages an d salaries.  
Retail Trade and Services   
 Overall retail sales activity grew moderately durin g the reporting period. Holiday spending 
tended to be higher than in recent years and notabl y so in some areas. Sales met most expectations, wi th 
few reports of excess inventories. Higher-priced it ems, electronics, men’s and women’s clothing, 
cosmetics, and accessories sold well. Online sales growth exceeded in-store growth. Auto sales were 
XII-2 
 robust in some areas, but came in somewhat below ex pectations in other regions. Contacts attributed 
stronger overall holiday sales to continued improve ment in employment conditions and decreases in gas 
prices. Many contacts are optimistic that these dev elopments will continue to spur retail spending in 2015.  
 Demand for business and consumer services grew mode rately during the reporting period. 
Demand for cloud computing services continued to in crease. Sales in the limited service segment of the  
restaurant sector slowed a bit in November but tick ed back up as the holiday season progressed. Holida y 
spending in this segment was higher than in 2013, a nd contacts expect that lower gas prices will conti nue 
to boost customer traffic in the new year. Travel a nd tourism to Southern California grew substantiall y in 
2014, and contacts expect this trend to continue in to 2015. In particular, travel from China grew rapi dly in 
2014, and new extended visa rules for Chinese visit ors should encourage even more tourism. Improved 
snow conditions and declines in gas prices contribu ted to a year-over-year increase in skier visits to  the 
eastern Sierra Nevadas during the reporting period.  Spending per visitor at ski destinations also incr eased.  
Manufacturing   
 Overall District manufacturing activity grew modera tely during the reporting period. Contacts 
reported that energy demand from manufacturers was solid. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical 
manufacturing earnings were healthy. Semiconductor producers reported year-to-date worldwide sales 
increased 10 percent from the same period a year ea rlier, while U.S. sales were up 12 percent. 
Commercial aircraft production was strong. Order ba cklogs remained sizable, but contacts were 
somewhat concerned that the decline in oil prices m ay cause airlines to start deferring purchases of m ore 
fuel-efficient planes. Sequestration continued to e rode revenues and capacity utilization in the defen se 
aerospace sector, as the rate of new program starts  declined. Increases in the pace of commercial 
construction boosted domestic demand for recycled s teel and metals. However, the stronger dollar and 
weaker foreign demand reduced exports of these mate rials.  
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries  
 Agricultural conditions in the District were mixed during the reporting period. Declines in 
petroleum prices contributed to reductions in the c ost of gas and fertilizer. However, some farmers al so 
XII-3 
 faced lower prices for their commodities. In some a reas, restaurants purchased fewer vegetables. Dairy  
farm profits increased significantly over the past year, but milk futures prices declined recently. 
Uncertainty regarding future water availability in California slowed new plantings of permanent crops.  
Declines in demand from Japan and China contributed  to a reduction in exports of logs. However, modest  
increases in the pace of new home construction in s ome areas slightly elevated domestic demand for log s.  
Real Estate and Construction 
Real estate activity advanced during the reporting period. The pace of new single-family home 
construction increased modestly in some areas of th e District, with relatively more activity in urban areas 
than in rural areas. However, some contacts cited i ncreasing costs of materials and labor and a shorta ge of 
available lots in some areas in their projections t hat the pace of new construction will fall back in 2015. 
Indeed, these contacts reported that the pace of co nstruction permit issuance has declined. A few cont acts 
indicated that home sales picked up a bit in Decemb er, but some contacts reported that insufficient 
inventory is damping the pace of sales. Multifamily  residential real estate construction activity was strong 
in many areas of the District during the reporting period.  Retail, office, industrial, or infrastruct ure 
projects also were widespread. Most contacts viewed  the pace of construction as healthy. However, one 
contact reported that some investors are concerned that, given planned construction, there soon will b e an 
excess supply of multifamily units in their area.  
Financial Institutions  
 Lending activity in the District was mixed during t he reporting period. Some contacts reported a 
significant increase in loan demand, mostly in the construction segment. Other contacts reported that 
overall loan demand remained somewhat weak. In some  areas, businesses with sufficient cash turned 
towards internal financing. Deposit growth was stro ng in many areas, and banks have ample liquidity. 
Stiff competition for high-quality borrowers exerte d downward pressure on loan interest rates, and 
declines in net interest margins were widespread. S ome contacts reported that compressed margins 
contributed to increased acquisitions as smaller ba nks combined in order to reduce operating costs.  