The Beige Book
Summar y of Commentar y on
Current Economic Conditions b y
Federal Reser ve District
July 2025
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
Contents
About This Publication ................................................................................................... .ii
National Summar y.......................................................................................................... .1
Federal Reser ve Bank of Boston ................................................................................. .5
Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York............................................................................. .8
Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia ...................................................................... .12
Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland ........................................................................... .16
Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond .......................................................................... .20
Federal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta ............................................................................... .24
Federal Reser ve Bank of Chicago ............................................................................. .27
Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis ............................................................................ .31
Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis ...................................................................... .35
Federal Reser ve Bank of Kansas City ....................................................................... .39
Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas ................................................................................. .43
Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco ................................................................... .47i
About This Publication
What is the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is a F ederal Reser ve System publication about cur rent economic conditions
across the 12 F ederal Reser ve Districts. It characterizes regional economic conditions and pros-
pects based on a variet y of mostl y qualitati ve infor mation, gathered directl y from each District’ s
sources. Repor ts are published eight times per year .
What is the pur pose of the Beige Book?
The Beige Book is intended to characterize the change in economic conditions since the last
repor t. Outreach for the Beige Book is one of man y ways the F ederal Reser ve System engages
with businesses and other organizations about economic de velopments in their communities.
Because this infor mation is collected from a wide range of contacts through a variet y of for mal
and infor mal methods, the Beige Book can complement other for ms of regional infor mation gath-
ering. The Beige Book is not a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.
How is the infor mation collected?
Each F ederal Reser ve Bank gather s infor mation on cur rent economic conditions in its District
through repor ts from Bank and Branch director s, plus inter views and online questionnaires com-
pleted b y businesses, communit y organizations, economists, mar ket experts, and other sources.
Contacts are not selected at random; rather , Banks stri ve to curate a di verse set of sources that
can pro vide accurate and objecti ve infor mation about a broad range of economic acti vities. The
Beige Book ser ves as a regular summar y of this infor mation for the public.
How is the infor mation used?
The infor mation from contacts supplements the data and anal ysis used b y Federal Reser ve econo -
mists and staff to assess economic conditions in the F ederal Reser ve Districts. The qualitati ve
nature of the Beige Book creates an o pportunity to characterize dynamics and identify emerging
trends in the econom y that ma y not be readil y app arent in the a vailable economic data. This infor-
Note: The F ederal Reser ve officiall y identifies Districts b y number and Reser ve Bank cit y. In the 12th District, the Seattle
Branch ser ves Alaska, and the San F rancisco Bank ser ves Haw aii. The System ser ves commonw ealths and ter ritories as
follows: the Ne w York Bank ser ves the Commonw ealth of Puer to Rico and the U.S. V irgin Islands; the San F rancisco Bank
serves American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonw ealth of the Nor thern Mariana Islands. The Board of Go vernors revised
the branch boundaries of the System in F ebruary 1996.ii
mation enables comp arison of economic conditions in different p arts of the countr y, which can be
helpful for assessing the outlook for the national econom y.
The Beige Book does not ha ve the type of infor mation I’m looking
for. What other infor mation is a vailable?
The F ederal Reser ve System conducts a wide ar ray of recur ring sur veys of businesses, house-
holds, and communit y organizations. A list of statistical releases compiled b y the F ederal Reser ve
Board is a vailable here, links to each of the F ederal Reser ve Banks are a vailable here, and a sum-
mary of the System’ s communit y outreach is a vailable here. In addition, Fed Listens  events ha ve
been held around the countr y to hear about how monetar y polic y affects peo ples’ daily lives and
livelihoods. The System also relies on a variet y of advisor y councils —whose member s are draw n
from a wide ar ray of businesses, non-profit organizations, and communit y groups—to hear di verse
perspecti ves on the econom y in car rying out its responsibilities.iii The Beige Book
National Summar y
Overall Economic Activity
Economic acti vity increased slightl y from late Ma y through ear ly July. Five Districts repor ted slight
or modest gains, fi ve had flat acti vity, and the remaining t wo Districts noted modest declines in
activity. That represented an impro vement o ver the pre vious repor t, in which half of Districts
repor ted at least slight declines in acti vity. Uncer tainty remained ele vated, contributing to ongoing
caution b y businesses. Nonauto consumer spending declined in most Districts, softening slightl y
overall. Auto sales receded modestl y on a verage, after consumer s had r ushed to buy vehicles ear-
lier this year to a void tariffs. T ourism acti vity was mixed, manufacturing acti vity edged low er, and
nonfinancial ser vices acti vity was little changed on a verage but varied across Districts. Loan
volume increased slightl y in most Districts. Constr uction acti vity slow ed some what, constrained b y
rising costs in some Districts. Home sales w ere flat or little changed in most Districts, and non-
residential real estate acti vity was also mostl y steady . Activity in the agriculture sector remained
weak. Energ y sector acti vity declined slightl y, and transpor tation acti vity was mixed. The outlook
was neutral to slightl y pessimistic, as onl y two Districts e xpected acti vity to increase, and other s
foresaw flat or slightl y weaker acti vity.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment increased ver y slightl y overall, with one District noting modest increases, six
repor ting slight increases, three no change, and t wo noting slight declines. Hiring remained gener-
ally cautious, which man y contacts attributed to ongoing economic and polic y uncer tainty. Labor
availabilit y impro ved for man y emplo yers, with fur ther reductions in tur nover rates and increased
job applications. A growing number of Districts cited labor shor tages in the skilled trades. Se veral
Districts also mentioned reduced a vailabilit y of foreign-bor n wor kers, attributed to changes in
immigration polic y. Emplo yers in a fe w Districts ramped up in vestments in automation and AI
aimed at reducing the need for additional hiring . Wages increased modestl y overall, e xtending
recent trends, with repor ts that ranged from flat w ages to moderate growth. Although repor ts of
layoffs w ere limited in all industries, the y were some what more common among manufacturer s.
Looking ahead, man y contacts e xpected to postpone major hiring and la yoff decisions until uncer-
tainty diminished.
Note: This repor t was prep ared at the F ederal Reser ve Bank of Boston based on infor mation collected on or before
July 7, 2025. This document summarizes comments recei ved from contacts outside the F ederal Reser ve System and is not
a commentar y on the vie ws of F ederal Reser ve officials.1
Prices
Prices increased across Districts, with se ven characterizing price growth as moderate and fi ve
characterizing it as modest, mostl y similar to the pre vious repor t. In all t welve Districts, busi-
nesses repor ted experiencing modest to pronounced input cost pressures related to tariffs, espe-
cially for raw materials used in manufacturing and constr uction. Rising insurance costs repre-
sented another widespread source of pricing pressure. Man y firms passed on at least a por tion of
cost increases to consumer s through price hik es or surcharges, although some held off raising
prices because of customer s’ growing price sensiti vity, resulting in compressed profit margins.
Contacts in a wide range of industries e xpected cost pressures to remain ele vated in the coming
months, increasing the lik elihood that consumer prices will star t to rise more rapidl y by
late summer .
Highlights b y Federal Reser ve District
Boston
Economic acti vity was flat or up slightl y. Retail re venues decreased modestl y, and tourism re v-
enues edged low er, in part because of fe wer visitor s from Canada. Price increases w ere modest
overall, although tariffs dro ve abo ve-average price increases in a fe w cases. Home sales increased
modestl y. Hiring plans remained conser vative amid a guardedl y optimistic outlook.
New York
Economic acti vity continued to decline modestl y as heightened uncer tainty hindered decision-
making . Emplo yment w as up slightl y and w age growth w as modest. Selling price increases
remained moderate, while input prices rose steepl y with widespread tariff-related cost increases.
Philadelphia
Business acti vity continued to decline modestl y in the cur rent Beige Book period. Acti vity fell mod-
eratel y for nonmanufacturer s but edged up slightl y for manufacturer s. Emplo yment declined
slightl y, while w ages increased slightl y. Prices rose modestl y after moderate growth last period.
Generall y, firms expect slight growth o ver the ne xt six months, although economic uncer-
tainty remains.
Cleveland
District business acti vity continued to be flat in recent w eeks, but contacts e xpected acti vity to
increase slightl y in the months ahead. Se veral manufacturer s repor ted softer order s, and transpor-
tation contacts repor ted a steep decline in demand. Contacts said that cost growth remained
robust while their selling prices onl y increased modestl y.2 The Beige Book
Richmond
The regional econom y grew moderatel y in recent w eeks. Consumer spending on retail, leisure, and
hospitalit y increased at a modest to moderate rate. Business conditions w ere largel y unchanged
as firms across most sector s repor ted steady sales and demand. How ever, manufacturing acti vity
contracted slightl y with fir ms citing higher prices cur tailing demand in recent w eeks. Emplo yment
rose modestl y and price growth remained moderate this c ycle.
Atlanta
The econom y of the Sixth District w as little changed. Labor mar kets and w ages w ere steady . Prices
rose moderatel y. Consumer spending softened, but tra vel and tourism increased modestl y. Resi-
dential and commercial real estate acti vity declined. T ranspor tation acti vity grew modestl y. Loan
growth w as flat. Manufacturing w as flat, but energ y acti vity rose moderatel y.
Chicago
Economic acti vity increased slightl y. Emplo yment increased modestl y; consumer spending , busi-
ness spending , and constr uction and real estate acti vity were flat; manufacturing declined slightl y;
and nonbusiness contacts saw no change in acti vity. Prices rose moderatel y, wages rose mod-
estly, and financial conditions loosened slightl y. Prospects for 2025 far m income w ere unchanged.
St. Louis
Economic acti vity has remained unchanged. Emplo yment le vels w ere generall y unchanged. Prices
continued to increase moderatel y, and most contacts continued to e xpect higher nonlabor costs in
the coming months as a result of tariffs. The outlook among contacts remains highl y uncer tain
and slightl y pessimistic.
Minneapolis
Economic acti vity was flat o verall. Emplo yment gre w slightl y and w age growth w as moderate. Price
growth eased but manufacturer s felt more acute pressures. O verall consumer spending w as dow n
but tourism acti vity increased. Constr uction and energ y acti vity decreased while manufacturing
and vehicle sales w ere flat.
Kansas City
Economic acti vity in the T enth District w as mostl y unchanged, with some rebound in consumer
spending and financial acti vities. Labor a vailabilit y was repor tedly much higher , which low ered
expected w age pressures for the remainder of the year . Prices rose at a moderate p ace.National Summar y 3
Dallas
Economic acti vity in the Ele venth District econom y was up slightl y over the repor ting period. Non-
financial ser vices acti vity grew modestl y, and manufacturing production held steady . Loan volumes
expanded, while oil production w as flat, retail sales declined, and the housing mar ket weakened.
Emplo yment w as unchanged and price pressures held steady . Outlooks remained pessimistic.
San F rancisco
Economic acti vity was largel y stable. Emplo yment le vels w ere slightl y lower. Wages gre w at a slight
pace and prices increased modestl y. Retail sales e xpanded modestl y, and consumer and business
services demand eased. Conditions in manufacturing , and residential real estate mar kets w eak-
ened some what. Lending acti vity and conditions in agriculture w ere largel y unchanged.4 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Boston
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity was roughl y flat o verall, but signals varied across sector s. Uncer tainty continued
to be mentioned as a factor holding back acti vity, albeit less frequentl y than in Ma y. Consumer s
continued to rein in spending on cer tain fronts, as retailer s repor ted modest declines in sales,
and tourism re venues declined slightl y. At the same time, home sales increased modestl y, fol-
lowing a period of declining sales. Manufacturing sales w ere mixed and about flat on a verage,
while re venues for soft ware and IT ser vices fir ms gre w at a moderate p ace. Commercial real
estate acti vity was roughl y unchanged. Prices increased modestl y on a verage, although tariffs led
to moderate-to -large price increases in a fe w cases. Emplo yment increased slightl y, and w age
growth w as modest. The outlook w as mostl y stable and cautiousl y optimistic on balance.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment e xpanded slightl y, and w ages increased modestl y. Hiring proceeded cautiousl y in p art
because of ongoing polic y uncer tainty and w as concentrated among select manufacturing and IT
services fir ms. Emplo yment at retail and hospitalit y establishments w as mostl y stable. Hospitalit y
contacts noted that domestic labor suppl y had impro ved but that some business ow ners still
struggled to find enough wor kers, as foreign-bor n labor suppl y was dow n in some areas. A growing
number of emplo yers, across di verse industries, sought to increase labor producti vity using AI and
other technologies, reducing the need for hiring . Wages increased moderatel y among fir ms making
annual adjustments and w ere otherwise unchanged, leading to modest w age growth on a verage.
Aside from one IT fir m that planned to ramp up hiring to satisfy a recent surge in demand, no
other contacts (in an y industr y) expected to engage in either significant hiring or significant la yoffs
going forw ard. 
Prices
Prices increased modestl y on a verage amid varied repor ts. Hotel room rates in greater Boston
increased slightl y (year-o ver-year), and prices at selected specialt y food stores and restaurants
rose moderatel y in response to tariffs—but otherwise retail and tourism contacts repor ted steady
prices. Manufacturing fir ms not e xposed to tariffs repor ted flat input and output prices, while other
manufacturer s experienced modest to moderate cost increases from tariffs and raised prices b y
5
above-average margins to account for infrequent price adjustments. Utilit y prices increased mod-
estly to moderatel y around the F irst District. Most contacts e xpected to hold their ow n prices
steady for the rest of the year , as some percei ved strong consumer resistance to fur ther price
increases. T ariffs w ere expected to dri ve seafood prices higher going forw ard, but risks of rising
inflation w ere mentioned less frequentl y than in the pre vious repor t.
Retail and T ourism
First District retail contacts repor ted modest declines in re venues, and tourism contacts repor ted
slight declines in hospitalit y revenues on balance despite pock ets of strength. Contacts from
various p arts of the District repor ted declines in retail and restaurant sales—ranging from slight to
substantial—that w ere attributed to a significant slowdow n in visits from Canada and a series of
rainy spring w eekends. Even in places that repor ted foot traffic on p ar with last year’ s, spending
per customer w as dow n modestl y. In a cit y near Boston with a large foreign-bor n population, depor-
tation fear s repor tedly drove retail and restaurant sales shar ply lower. Hotel contacts on Cape Cod
said that sales w ere flat or dow n modestl y at budget and mid-mar ket establishments, while re v-
enues increased moderatel y for high-end lodging . Greater Boston hotel contacts repor ted slight
revenue growth from a year ear lier, suppor ted by solid con vention and visitor acti vity. The outlook
was mixed, how ever, as contacts in greater Boston e xpected tourism acti vity to remain strong ,
while contacts in some other areas wor ried that retail spending might soften fur ther, especiall y
among low er-income consumer s and in immigrant communities. Contacts e xpected visits from
Canada to remain w ell below nor mal le vels, and businesses in nor thern New England w ere lik ely to
bear the br unt of that trend.
Manufacturing and Related Ser vices
Manufacturing sales w ere flat in recent months, on a verage, although perfor mance w as mixed.
One contact said that sales had bounced back recentl y, following a period of soft sales in Ma y.
Even fir ms that repor ted flat o verall sales noted cer tain bright spots, including t wo that e xperi-
enced stronger retail sales of their consumer products. Sales to businesses, in contrast, slow ed
modestl y, in one case dri ven b y weakness in the fast-food industr y. Capital e xpenditures rose
slightl y on a verage comp ared with last year , although one fir m postponed large capital outla ys,
while aw aiting resolution of tax polic y uncer tainty. The outlook w as positi ve on balance, as fir ms
expected to meet or e xceed their re venue projections for the year . At the same time, selected con-
tacts said that polic y uncer tainty made planning difficult.
Softw are & IT Ser vices
First District soft ware and IT contacts repor ted moderate re venue gains on a verage. The increase
in revenues deri ved mostl y from a single fir m that e xperienced an at ypicall y large business trans-6 The Beige Book
action. Other fir ms said that demand and re venues w ere either stable at ver y health y levels or up
modestl y from a year ear lier. Contacts repor ted increased demand from client fir ms for data ser-
vices that facilitated usage of AI. Costs and prices w ere mostl y unchanged, and profit margins
were stable. There w ere no meaningful changes in capital and technolog y spending . The outlook
was mostl y optimistic based on the recent strength of demand, but some contacts nonetheless
worried that uncer tainty could cause their clients to defer in vestments.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate acti vity was flat on balance. Office leasing increased slightl y but w as still
described as slug gish. One contact said that retur n-to-office policies had not pick ed up as much
as expected. Office rents w ere said to ha ve stabilized at ver y low le vels, resulting in thin profit
margins and lea ving ow ners with little incenti ve to in vest in impro vements. Loan distress remained
a significant concer n in the office mar ket. Contacts said that uncer tainty surrounding tariffs had
led fir ms to p ause business plans, dampening industrial leasing and putting the brak es on rent
growth in that mar ket. Nonetheless, in vestment demand for industrial sp ace remained health y.
Retail leasing remained solid, with modest rent increases and stable vacancies. Multifamil y
leasing and sales acti vity were stable at health y levels, but one contact said that ap artment rent
growth had tapered off recentl y. Overall, contacts became slightl y more pessimistic, with some
expecting the office reco very to tak e longer than pre viousl y forecasted, and other s wor ried about
risks to pro perty leasing and in vestment related to emerging federal policies.
Residential Real Estate
Across the F irst District, home sales increased modestl y on a verage from Ma y 2024 through
May 2025, with some what stronger results for single-famil y homes than for condominiums. Sales
were mixed across states: Ne w Hampshire and Massachusetts both repor ted slight to moderate
decreases in sales from the pre vious Ma y, while other Ne w England states e xperienced modest to
strong growth in sales. (Connecticut repor ted no data.) In ventories of single-famil y homes and con-
dominiums increased from one year ear lier by very large margins in most mar kets, contributing to
the repor ts of increased sales. Median sale prices increased moderatel y from a year ear lier on
average, with larger increases for single-famil y homes than condos. Looking ahead, one contact
was optimistic that in ventories would rise fur ther, leading to moderation in home prices and,
potentiall y, stronger sales.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .bostonfed.org/in-the-
region.aspx .Federal Reser ve Bank of Boston 7
Federal Reser ve Bank of
New York
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Second District continued to decline modestl y as heightened uncer tainty
hindered decision-making . Emplo yment w as up slightl y and w age growth w as modest. Selling price
increases remained moderate, while input prices rose steepl y as tariff-related cost increases w ere
widespread. Manufacturing acti vity continued to decline modestl y, with ne w order s edging dow n.
Activity in the ser vice sector continued to decline but at a more modest p ace than last period.
Consumer spending declined slightl y, weighed dow n by soft auto sales. Housing mar kets w ere
mixed across the District, with steep price increases amid strong demand and limited suppl y.
Rents in Ne w York City rose shar ply. After an episode of deep pessimism in the last repor ting
period, businesses became more neutral about the outlook.
Labor Mar kets
On balance, emplo yment in the region w as up slightl y. Headcounts continued to decline signifi-
cantly among business ser vices and infor mation fir ms, and edged dow n slightl y in education and
health, but emplo yment gre w among businesses in manufacturing , transpor tation, retail, leisure
and hospitalit y, and per sonal ser vices.
Labor suppl y still e xceeded labor demand in man y industries. Labor demand w as especiall y weak
in the tech sector , especiall y for jobs with remote wor k arrangements. Attrition remained e xcep-
tionall y low in most industries, though contacts in constr uction and some other industries depen-
dent on wor kers in the skilled trades continued to see high attrition and low labor suppl y, particu-
larly amid a decline in immigrant labor . With the decline in a vailable immigrant wor kers, some
small seasonal businesses repor tedly decided not to reo pen. Although la yoffs remained limited in
the region, some businesses repor ted postponing both hiring and la yoff decisions until uncer tainty
resolves.
Wage growth slow ed to the low end of the modest range, continuing the slowdow n from the pre-
vious period. F irms in the business ser vices and infor mation sector s saw e xceptionall y slow w age
growth. W age growth w as steady and moderate in per sonal ser vices, leisure and hospitalit y, and
constr uction.
8
Prices
The p ace of selling price increases w as mostl y unchanged at a moderate p ace. How ever, the p ace
of input price increases remained steep as tariff-related cost increases w ere widespread. Man y
businesses repor ted continuing to p ass on some or all tariff cost increases to their customer s.
A manufacturer of door s for a Manhattan constr uction project repor ted a significant jump in costs
due to the tariffs on steel. Se veral food and be verage establishments repor ted significant con-
cerns about the rising costs of inputs. T ariffs ha ve pushed up the cost of auto p arts and dealer s
are generall y passing these on to customer s. A regional retailer described selecti vely raising
prices on goods with less elastic demand that w ere not subject to tariffs, in order to offset rising
costs among tariffed goods. An appliance manufacturer noted that tariff surcharges w ere disap -
pearing as higher costs w ere now bak ed into prices o verall. Still, one contact noted that both gas
prices and some materials costs ha ve declined. Businesses e xpected substantial increases in
input prices in the months ahead, but more moderate increases in selling prices.
Consumer Spending
On balance, consumer spending declined slightl y. After e xceptionall y strong auto sales last period
when man y buyer s shifted forw ard purchases to a void tariff-related price increases, auto sales
declined moderatel y this period. With the surge in sales acti vity last period, ne w car in ventor y was
still running low . Further, lender s have become cautious, and the least credit worthy borrowers are
finding it more difficult to get appro ved for car loans. An electronics retailer in Nor thern New Jersey
noted a shar p decline in sales and foot traffic. Still, a dep artment store chain repor ted impro ving
sales, with strong sales in denim and fine je welry. Restaurant visits ha ve continued to pick up
around Ne w York City, especiall y in Brookl yn.
Manufacturing and Distribution
Manufacturing acti vity continued to decline modestl y, with ne w order s edging dow n. Still, ship -
ments mo ved some what higher in recent w eeks. Uncer tainty about tariffs and trade polic y
remained a challenge for manufacturer s, and man y contacts mentioned difficult y setting prices
and finalizing contracts and purchase agreements. Still, one regional plastic and r ubber products
manufacturer noted an increase in business from fir ms looking to reshore manufacturing for some
goods. Wholesale and distribution-related fir ms show ed some recent signs of a pickup. Deli very
times remained unchanged. Suppl y availabilit y wor sened, but fir ms ha ve become less pessimistic
about future suppl y availabilit y. Man y manufacturer s noted planned reductions in capital spending .
The outlook among manufacturer s impro ved.Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York 9
Services
Activity in the ser vice sector continued to decline but at a more modest p ace than last period.
There w ere ongoing steep declines in the leisure and hospitalit y, infor mation, and per sonal ser-
vices sector s, but acti vity was largel y unchanged in business ser vices and education and health.
A regional hospital e xpressed concer ns about business viabilit y for r ural hospitals amid potential
federal funding reductions.
Tourism acti vity in Ne w York City held steady . Hotel occup ancy continued to edge up, and room
rates w ere near all-time highs. Tick et sales at Broad way theatres w ere strong . Still, with the
number of inter national visitor s declining , optimism among tourism contacts w aned.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Housing mar kets w ere mixed across the District, with strong demand and limited suppl y. Inventor y
picked up slightl y in some p arts of the District but remained constrained. Sales pick ed up in
upstate Ne w York, but there w as a slowdow n in ne w contracts in the Ne w York City metro area due
to uncer tainty. Still, sales prices remained near record highs, and a large share of sales outside of
New York City closed o ver their asking prices.
New York City rents—already at historic highs during the last repor ting period—rose shar ply in
June, on the heels of a ne w city law prohibiting landlords from charging fees on rentals. Rental
suppl y declined notabl y around Ne w York City, as some landlords held off listing pro perties until
there w as greater under standing of the law and how to set prices.
Commercial real estate mar kets continued to impro ve slightl y. Leasing and sales acti vity in
Manhattan ’s office mar ket pick ed up fur ther, with some spillo ver into adjacent suburban mar kets.
The tech sector has become more acti ve in office leasing after ha ving been mostl y absent in
recent year s. The industrial mar ket has remained soft amid declining data center demand. The
industrial w arehousing mar ket cooled in the Ne w York City area due to a slowdow n in sales of
home-related goods requiring storage, though one contact in Nor thern New Jersey noted some
pickup in the industrial w arehousing mar ket. Manhattan saw a shar p decline in multi-famil y
building sales. Constr uction acti vity across the District declined strongl y, as high constr uction
costs w eighed on de velopers.
Banking and F inance
Activity in the broad finance sector pick ed up slightl y. Still, small-to -medium-sized banks in the Dis-
trict repor ted that loan demand continued to w eaken for all t ypes of loans as w ell as refinances.
Generall y, banking contacts in the region noted an easing in credit standards, and one senior loan10 The Beige Book
officer noted that the qualit y of credit applicants w as weaker. Deposit rates edged low er. Delin-
quenc y rates continued to impro ve, particular ly for residential mor tgages.
Community P erspectives
Households in the District continued to face challenges meeting their needs due to rising
expenses and reduced a vailabilit y of financial assistance. In p articular , housing costs ha ve
climbed as tax burdens ha ve increased due to higher reassessments, while insurance and mainte-
nance fees ha ve increased mar kedly. Funding shor tfalls in childcare programs in Ne w York City due
to escalating costs ha ve led to a freezing of childcare voucher enrollments, requiring p arents to
shoulder higher e xpenses. Fur ther, the lifting of CO VID-era protections on Medicaid and housing
continued to put stress on some households.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .newyorkfed.org/
regional-econom y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Ne w York11
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Philadelphia
Summar y of Economic Activity
On balance, business acti vity in the Third District continued to decline modestl y. Nonmanufacturing
activity again declined moderatel y. Nonauto retailer s and auto dealer s continued to repor t a slight
decline in acti vity, with consumer s looking for w ays to slow their spending . Manufacturing acti vity edged
up slightl y this period, although ongoing economic uncer tainty continued to dampen demand. Emplo y-
ment continued to decline slightl y, while w ages gre w slightl y again this period. Prices rose modestl y
after increasing moderatel y last period. F irms continued to note that changes in trade policies pose
upside risks to general inflation, although broad imp acts ha ve not yet materialized. On balance, non-
manufacturer s and manufacturer s both e xpect a slight increase in business acti vity over the ne xt
six months, with ongoing economic uncer tainty weighing on prospects.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment continued to decline slightl y this period. Based on our June sur vey, full-time emplo y-
ment fell slightl y for nonmanufacturing fir ms, and the p art-time inde x signaled no change. The
index for total manufacturing emplo yment declined modestl y in June and reached its low est le vel
since Ma y 2020. How ever, two-thirds of the manufacturer s and o ver half of the nonmanufacturer s
repor ted no change in emplo yment. 
Overall, our staffing contacts repor ted a decline in demand—attributed to ver y low emplo yee tur n-
over rates and relati vely few businesses looking to e xpand. Multiple other business contacts
repor ted increased use of ar tificial intelligence (AI), with one contact sa ying AI replaced some call
center emplo yees, and another contact noting how AI led to a reduction in accounting jobs. Most
contacts repor ted little issue with labor suppl y; how ever, some contacts highlighted that immigra-
tion policies led to a shor tage of wor kers in the low est-wage jobs—a shor tage the y did not e xpect
to be able to mak e up.
Firms across industries repor ted that w ages continued to grow slightl y this period. Most contacts
repor ted little upw ard w age pressure o ver the period.
12
Prices
Firms’ prices rose modestl y this period, following a pickup to moderate growth last period. In our
monthl y surveys, the diffusion inde xes for prices p aid and prices recei ved in June held steady
for nonmanufacturer s but declined for manufacturer s. The inde xes remained abo ve their non-
recession a verages for manufacturer s, with man y firms repor ting effects of tariffs on materials.
The prices recei ved inde x remained below its nonrecession a verage for nonmanufacturer s, who
are more e xposed to price-sensiti ve consumer s than man y manufacturer s.
Contacts across multiple sector s, including retail, tourism, and residential constr uction, repor ted
offering discounts to tr y to boost demand, putting some pressure on profit margins. O verall, costs
appeared to rise modestl y, with large increases in the costs of some goods being offset b y smaller
increases or declines else where. One contact highlighted relief in the fir m’s insurance costs,
which recentl y declined for the fir st time in a fe w year s.
Many contacts repor ted tariff-related increases in costs and prices, but some contacts noted that
cost increases ha ven’t materialized or w ere more limited than e xpected. How ever, most contacts
expected fur ther tariff imp acts in the coming months. The inde xes for future prices p aid and future
prices recei ved continued to sug gest that manufacturing fir ms expect price increases o ver the
next six months. Both inde xes mo ved higher and remained w ell abo ve their historical nonrecession
averages.
Manufacturing
Current manufacturing acti vity edged up slightl y this period following larger declines o ver the prior
two months. The inde x for ne w order s fell in June but remained positi ve, while the shipments
index turned positi ve. Uncer tainty significantl y constrained cap acity utilization in the second
quarter for 37 percent of the fir ms in our June sur vey, up from 25 percent in the fir st quar ter. One
lender repor ted slow er acti vity across all manufacturing industries, e xcept defense-related manu-
facturing , with fir ms ado pting a “w ait-and-see” approach to changing trade polic y and tariff
impacts. 
On balance, manufacturer s expected modest growth o ver the ne xt six months. The inde xes for
future general acti vity, new order s, and shipments all fell below their historical a verages in June.
Trade and Ser vices
On balance, fir ms across a broad spectr um of nonmanufacturing industries continued to repor t a
moderate decline in acti vity. The ne w order s inde x remained negati ve and declined to its low estFederal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia 13
level in o ver two year s. Meanwhile, the inde x for sales/re venues tur ned slightl y positi ve but
remained low comp ared with its historical a verage.
Retailer s (nonauto) continued to repor t a slight decline in sales o ver the cur rent period. One
retailer noted a recent pickup in customer traffic but repor ted that purchases remained relati vely
small and that customer s were focused primaril y on discounted items. Other contacts said that
consumer s were tightening their budgets, including pulling back on luxur y purchases, eating more
meals at home, and o pting for low er-priced goods when a vailable.
Auto dealer s continued to repor t a slight decline in auto sales following strong sales in ear ly
spring . One contact that repor ted a recent slowdow n in sales e xpressed sur prise that sales had
not dro pped more shar ply following the pre-tariff spik e in car purchases.
Activity in the tourism sector continued to rise slightl y. Contacts repor ted high traffic counts at the
Jersey Shore, Delaw are beaches, and P oconos but noted w eaker hotel demand and low er
spending b y travelers at their destinations. Contacts e xplained that peo ple w ere taking vacations
but also looking for w ays to sa ve, such as taking more da y trips, w aiting for discounts, o pting for
closer domestic tra vel, and prefer ring shor t-term rentals that offered sp ace to prep are meals in an
effort to eat out less. Business tra vel declined slightl y and continued to be w eighed dow n by lower
government spending and heightened uncer tainty among cor porate clients, according to contacts.
Expectations among the nonmanufacturer s for their ow n growth o ver the ne xt six months con-
tinued to rise slightl y. Meanwhile, sentiment for acti vity in the region o verall remained negati ve.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Existing home sales continued to increase slightl y this period, but the le vel of sales remains low .
Contacts repor ted that sales in Ma y were below year-ago le vels and noted that the nor mally busy
spring housing mar ket again failed to de velop this year . Homebuilder s repor ted a modest decline
in sales, following a moderate decline last period. One contact mentioned that a recent dro p in
sales prices failed to dri ve a pickup in buyer traffic, citing a hesitanc y from consumer s to mak e
large purchases amid ongoing economic uncer tainty.
In nonresidential mar kets, leasing acti vity continued to grow slightl y, while transaction volumes
were little changed at low le vels, according to contacts.
Nonresidential constr uction acti vity continued to record slight declines. Contacts repor ted that
some constr uction projects continue to be dela yed b y price uncer tainty. One contact also noted
that confusion around the status of federal grant mone y has slow ed multiple projects.14 The Beige Book
Credit Conditions
The volume of bank lending (e xcluding credit cards) fell slightl y during the period (not seasonall y
adjusted), after increasing slightl y last period and e xperiencing little change in the comp arable
period a year ago.
The slight decline in lending w as largel y driven b y a strong decline in commercial and industrial
lending , according to District banks. Meanwhile, consumer lending (e xcluding auto lending and
credit cards) rose strongl y, home equit y lines and auto loans rose modestl y, and mor tgages rose
slightl y. Commercial real estate lending w as unchanged. Credit card volumes increased modestl y,
similar to the same period one year ago.
Banking contacts repor ted mostl y steady loan demand but noted man y businesses ha ve dela yed
investment decisions or p aused projects because of continued uncer tainty. Bank ers repor ted a
pickup in delinquencies but e xplained that delinquenc y levels remain low and o verall credit qualit y
remains strong . One business contact repor ted an impro vement in financing conditions in June,
citing increased in vestor demand and growing e xpectations of future interest rate cuts that ha ve
led to a decline in bor rowing rates being offered.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .philadelphiafed.org/
regional-econom y.Federal Reser ve Bank of Philadelphia 15
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Cleveland
Summar y of Economic Activity
Contacts ’ repor ts sug gested flat o verall business acti vity in the F ourth District in recent w eeks,
though contacts e xpected acti vity to increase slightl y in the months ahead. Retailer s noted a pull-
back in consumer spending , and ne w vehicle purchases decreased after a surge in pre-tariff sales.
Demand for professional and business ser vices remained robust, and some clients mo ved forw ard
with pre viousl y paused projects despite ongoing uncer tainty. Contacts generall y continued to
repor t slight increases in emplo yment le vels, but man y were holding off on hiring or reducing staff
until the y had more clarit y on economic conditions. W age pressures continued to be moderate but
subsided in sector s with softer labor demand. Contacts ’ repor ts sug gested that their nonlabor
cost pressures remained robust and that their selling prices gre w onl y modestl y amid increasing
price sensiti vity.
Labor Mar kets
Overall, emplo yment le vels increased slightl y in recent w eeks, according to contacts ’ repor ts. Pro -
fessional and business ser vices fir ms continued to repor t staff increases, though at a slow er rate
comp ared to the strong p ace at the star t of the year . Manufacturing contacts ’ demand for labor
was mixed, with some hiring for anticip ated growth and other s reducing staffing le vels to cut
costs. In response to flattening demand and uncer tainty, man y contacts across sector s were
holding off on changing staffing le vels until the direction of demand became clear . On balance,
contacts e xpected emplo yment to increase slightl y in the near ter m.
Contacts ’ repor ts sug gested that w ages gre w moderatel y in recent w eeks, continuing the p ace of
growth that star ted at the beginning of the year . Man y of the fir ms across industries continued to
raise w ages through fixed annual adjustments. Some contacts in banking , professional and busi-
ness ser vices, and healthcare noted per sistent upw ard pressure on w ages due to competition for
skilled wor kers. But w age pressures w ere repor tedly subsiding in the retail and constr uction sec-
tors, with contacts noting a slow er job mar ket. One retail contact said, “[w e’re] not losing
emplo yees to other businesses, so w e are not getting into matching offer s to retain emplo yees.”
16
Prices
On balance, contacts ’ repor ts indicated that nonlabor input costs continued to rise at a robust
pace in recent w eeks and that the cost stabilization seen during 2024 had dissip ated. Man y
manufacturer s noted that tariffs had increased the costs of the materials the y impor t, and some
retailer s repor ted tariff-related cost increases from foreign and domestic supplier s. Ele vated costs
for insurance and technolog y, including AI and data securit y, continued to imp act banking and pro -
fessional and business ser vices contacts. Contacts generall y expected costs to grow at a strong
pace in the coming months.
Selling prices rose modestl y on balance, according to contact repor ts. Across industries, contacts
continued to repor t raising prices to co ver costs related to tariffs and ele vated prices of materials
and insurance. Man y repor ts indicated increased price sensiti vity related to softening demand.
This sensiti vity was evidenced b y contacts selecti vely and cautiousl y increasing prices, holding
prices steady while making other cost-sa ving changes, and, in some cases, cutting prices to com-
pete. Other signs of this sensiti vity were the dips in sales after commercial constr uction contacts
raised their prices. Still, se veral contacts in manufacturing and professional and business ser-
vices anticip ated increasing prices in the near ter m ahead of contract rene wals.
Consumer Spending
On balance, contacts said consumer spending declined slightl y in recent w eeks. Ne w vehicle pur-
chases decreased following a surge in sales from customer s who w ere seeking to a void tariff-
related price increases. One tourism contact benefited from customer s taking “sta ycations, ”
whereas a hospitalit y contact w as hur t by a 20 to 30 percent decline in tra vel to their mar ket.
Overall, retail store contacts repor ted flat sales and said that customer s purchased onl y essen-
tials and a voided discretionar y items. Looking ahead, contacts e xpected no change in demand in
the coming months.
Manufacturing
Contacts ’ repor ts sug gested that demand for manufactured goods w as unchanged in recent
weeks, ha ving stabilized at a low le vel during the prior repor ting period. Se veral contacts continued
to repor t flat or declining order s because of uncer tainty about trade polic y or federal regulations;
one producer’ s order backlog w as at its low est le vel since 2018, and another noted that ship -
ments w ere at their low est le vel in decades. Multiple fir ms selling into consumer mar kets,
including housing , automoti ve, and nondurable goods, repor ted softer sales. Manufacturer s gener-
ally expected demand to change little in the coming months unless trade polic y and other federal
regulations come into better focus.Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland 17
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential constr uction and real estate contacts repor ted that demand increased moderatel y in
recent w eeks. One real estate brok er obser ved more buyer s in the mar ket but noted more fre-
quent reductions in listing prices, and another highlighted that homeow ners remained reluctant to
sell because of concer ns about losing their low mor tgage rates. Looking ahead, one homebuilder
expected economic and political uncer tainty to discourage large purchases, dampening demand
for homes. On balance, contacts e xpected a slight decline in demand o ver the coming months.
Commercial constr uction and real estate contacts repor ted moderate growth in demand in recent
weeks. One real estate de veloper repor ted that retail traffic increased steadil y, driving leasing
activity, and another said that trends tow ard in-per son wor k continued to bolster demand for office
space. How ever, several commercial builder s mentioned that clients had dela yed projects or that
new inquiries had slow ed amid economic uncer tainty. Contacts anticip ated continued moderate
growth in demand in the coming months.
Financial Ser vices
On balance, bank ers repor ted that loan demand w as flat o ver the p ast se veral w eeks. Commercial
bankers continued to attribute slug gish bor rowing acti vity to trade polic y uncer tainty, and one com-
mercial bank er noted that some businesses dela yed large in vestments as the economic outlook
remained unclear . One bank er said consumer loan demand declined following increased auto, R V,
and marine purchases ear lier in the year ahead of potential tariffs. In the coming months, bank ers
anticip ated a slight decline in o verall loan demand as man y businesses w ait for more clarit y on
trade polic y and interest rates.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Professional and business ser vices contacts generall y repor ted robust growth in demand for the
second consecuti ve repor ting period, a situation which the y expected to continue in the coming
months. A contact’ s clients began to advance pre viousl y paused projects despite continued uncer-
tainty. Additionall y, a law fir m said that their demand w as up as clients sought consultations on
downsizing o ptions. By contrast, transpor tation contacts across multiple sector s including air
cargo, p assenger air , and freight hauling repor ted a steep decline in demand. Se veral transpor ta-
tion contacts commented on w eak economic conditions, and the y highlighted low e xport activity
and reduced impor t activity following a pre-tariff surge. T ranspor tation contacts e xpected the shar p
decline to continue o ver the coming months.18 The Beige Book
Community Conditions
In a recent sur vey of nonprofit organizations that suppor t small businesses, contacts repor ted
challenges associated with cap acity constraints and growing demand for ser vices. Se veral respon-
dents repor ted federal funding reductions, with one r ural organization describing cuts of more than
40 percent to their federal and state grants. Other s raised concer ns about whether pri vate funds
would remain a vailable for their organizations gi ven economic uncer tainty. Meanwhile, demand for
these organizations ’ services increased, as small business ow ners sought assistance managing
higher e xpenses, modifying suppl y chains, and obtaining credit. Additionall y, respondents noted
that small businesses had lost federal contracts and that federal polic y changes w ere raising con-
cerns about future contract o pportunities, especiall y for women-, minorit y-, and veteran-ow ned
businesses.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .clevelandfed.org/en/
region/regional-anal ysis.Federal Reser ve Bank of Cle veland 19
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Richmond
Summar y of Economic Activity
The F ifth District econom y grew modestl y in recent w eeks. Consumer spending at retail stores
increased modestl y as adver tised discounts dro ve up foot traffic and sales. Spending at restau-
rants and hotels also rose with p articular strength repor ted in higher-end and luxur y establish-
ments. Impor t activity fluctuated with tariff announcements and p auses but volumes w ere up in
recent w eeks. Manufacturing acti vity declined modestl y this c ycle as higher prices curbed demand
for man y producer s. How ever, some domestic producer s with less inter national e xposure repor ted
growth. Real estate, financial ser vices, and nonfinancial ser vices mar kets w ere little changed in
recent w eeks. Emplo yment rose slightl y and some comp anies repor ted an increase in candidate
pools. Price growth remained moderate on a year-o ver-year basis. O verall rising costs of li ving put
some upw ard w age pressure on fir ms.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment in the F ifth District increased slightl y in this period. Se veral contacts repor ted an
increase in applicants, p articular ly for professional ser vice jobs. A DC-area post-secondar y institu-
tion w as able to be more selecti ve in hiring for finance positions due to an uptick in applicants. A
few firms, how ever, still faced challenges finding wor kers for specific roles. F or example, a flat ware
manufacturer repor ted finding skilled labor w as a “unicor n hunt. ” Man y firms repor ted caution on
hiring , though fe w were cutting back on wor kers. While w age growth remained moderate, on bal-
ance, a ci vil engineering fir m faced pressure to raise w ages more substantiall y as potential ne w
hires tur ned dow n offer s citing the compensation p ackage didn ’t align with the cost of housing .
Prices
Year-over-year price growth remained moderate this c ycle. According to our most recent sur veys,
service sector fir ms repor ted steady and moderate annual price growth. Manufacturer s, how ever,
saw price growth rise from a modest p ace of growth to a moderate rate. One manufacturer said
that input costs w ere higher in recent months due in p art to tariffs but also from rising regulator y,
insurance, and labor costs, including w ages and benefits.
20
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity in the F ifth District e xperienced a modest decline in the recent repor ting
period. Multiple contacts e xperienced significant challenges to their business due to being unable
to maintain stable pricing . A fur niture manufacturer w as not able to adjust their bi-annual pricing
despite increases in input costs, w ages, and regulation compliance costs. A laundr y equipment
manufacturer w as uncer tain if the y would mak e mone y on sales due to the long manufacturing
production-time coupled with fluctuating input costs. T o cover added costs due to tariffs, a couple
of manufacturer s added surcharges to their sales prices. Manufacturer s with less inter national
exposure repor ted some increased business acti vity. An aluminum manufacturer repor ted
increased sales due to customer s looking for “high-qualit y, domesticall y produced” products.
Ports and T ranspor tation
Maritime por t contacts repor ted that impor t volumes increased in Ma y, flattened in ear ly June, and
then increased again tow ards the end of June reflecting the lag ged effects of tariff announce-
ments and p auses in implementation. The increase in impor t volumes in Ma y was attributed to a
pull forw ard of holida y inventor y restocking that would t ypicall y occur late in the summer . One con-
tact noted that “the peak season [for shipping] has changed. Nothing is traditional now , there is
no nor mal.” With that pull-forw ard, contacts noted e xpectations of w eakness for the fall and winter
months regardless of what happens with trade deliberations. Ex port volumes remained flat, con-
sistent with the slug gish le vels of the last fe w year s; empt y container s have begun stacking up at
inland por ts, and container s at maritime por ts have been quickl y retur ned to China, unloaded.
Ocean spot prices increased slightl y after the tariff p ause caused a spik e in demand for front-
loading , but not to the high le vels seen during the CO VID-era surge. T ariff frontloading has had
little imp act on tr ucking demand, which remained flat at low volumes. Contract rates remained
relatively low, but spot rates increased some what in the last month. One large tr ucking fir m has
obser ved signs of a demand shift where vulnerabilit y to tariffs has made retail a more difficult seg-
ment to grow , and foresees a p ainful period of adjustment as domestic manufacturing builds up.
Retail, Travel, and T ourism
Consumer spending increased modestl y in recent w eeks. Retailer s generall y repor ted steady sales
but ga ve mixed repor ts on consumer sentiment and sho pping beha vior. A fe w stores said that
adver tised discounts helped dri ve up foot traffic and sales. Another retailer said that sales had
been volatile as customer s try to time an y potential tariff induced price increases. Restaurant con-
tacts repor ted steady sales, p articular ly at fast casual and higher end sit-dow n restaurants. A
couple of restaurants near central business districts, how ever, said sales w ere dow n due to fe wer
business or e vent-dri ven bookings. Hotel contacts repor ted a moderate increase in occup ancy andFederal Reser ve Bank of Richmond 21
a small increase in rates leading to solid growth in re venue, with luxur y hotels repor ting the
strongest growth.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity was little changed, on balance. Some agents noted good acti vity
while another agent said, “the phone has sto pped ringing , and this is the wor st spring mar ket
since 2009. ” Inventor y in the District continued to increase while buyer s sat on the sidelines due
to uncer tainty. Most buyer s had no issues qualifying and agents w ere helping to educate those
with low credit scores on w ays to increase their credit. Additionall y, lender s were offering
3-2-1 buydow ns or adjustable-rate mor tgages to help low er monthl y mor tgage p ayments. Builder s
in the District r ushed to complete projects as tariff fear s were still looming .
Commercial real estate acti vity remained the same despite the e xpected summer slowdow n.
A few agents across the District mentioned that se veral tenants w ere looking to purchase the
properties the y were cur rently leasing . An agent in Nor th Carolina stated that ow ner-occupied
buildings w ere getting better interest rates ver sus in vestor pro perty. Uncer tainty in the mar ket
continued as agents noted deals taking longer to close as buyer s ran e very anal ytics model. An
agent in South Carolina also mentioned that fear s of wire fraud added to the closing process. In
also speaking of fraud, a V irginia brok er said, “ All this does is add time and time kills real
estate deals. ”
Banking and F inance
Financial institutions continued to repor t steady demand for all loan t ypes. One institution
repor ted that commercial bor rowers were being cautious with their capital and w ere holding back
big expenditures at this time. Residential real estate lending continued to slow slightl y with both
lower consumer confidence and housing affordabilit y noted as reasons for the trend. A credit
union noted that consumer credit qualit y was showing some deterioration as member s find w ays
to access alter native funds. Delinquenc y rates w ere noted as being stable with no major fluctua-
tions. Deposit le vels also remained stable with a continued easing of competition noted bet ween
institutions. 
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Nonfinancial ser vice pro viders repor ted a stable demand for their ser vices, but a general theme of
uncer tainty surrounded most of their comments. A design fir m noted their clients as being pensi ve
and se veral of them w ere stepping aw ay from doing projects just yet. A staffing fir m noted that
their clients w ere taking a “w ait and see” approach before implementing an y new plans. A supplier
of cleaning products and ser vices to commercial fir ms, including uni versities, schools and hospi-22 The Beige Book
tals, w as using this time to de velop more retail clients, but said that it tak es time to build these
new relationships and lines of business. 
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .richmondfed.org/
research/data_anal ysis.Federal Reser ve Bank of Richmond 23
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Atlanta
Summar y of Economic Activity
The econom y of the Sixth District w as little changed o ver the repor ting period. Labor mar kets
remained stable as most fir ms kept headcounts le vel; w age pressures remained muted. Prices
rose moderatel y amid continued economic uncer tainty. Retailer s and restauranteur s experienced
softening demand. T ravel and tourism gre w modestl y. Sales of ne w and e xisting homes slow ed,
and housing in ventories rose significantl y. Commercial real estate saw a moderate decline in
activity. Transpor tation acti vity rose modestl y, but manufacturing w as flat. Loan and deposit growth
was relati vely unchanged. Energ y acti vity grew at a moderate p ace.
Labor Mar kets
Labor mar kets remained relati vely unchanged o ver the repor ting period, with most fir ms holding
headcount flat. Contacts continued to describe a reluctance to hire gi ven economic uncer tainty
and softening demand. Some tr ucking fir ms implemented reductions in force to align with slowing
demand; how ever, most fir ms expect to maintain cur rent staffing le vels throughout the rest of the
year, and some plan to allow for attrition as the y wait to see how the econom y develops. Turnover
remained low , and contacts generall y repor ted an ample suppl y of a vailable wor kers. Overall, w age
pressure remained muted amid less tur nover and solid labor a vailabilit y.
Prices
Prices rose at a moderate p ace. Man y businesses repor ted inflationar y concer ns sur rounding the
direct and indirect effects of trade polic y and related uncer tainty. Firms with e xposure to tariffs
continued to describe various approaches to cost p ass-through, such as sharing tariff-related cost
increases with both supplier s and customer s. Some businesses ha ve raised prices ahead of
imposed tariffs. Other s said the y were w aiting to raise prices until the y had more clarit y on trade
policy, which puts pressure on margins but minimizes price volatilit y. Several contacts noted the y
were still wor king through pre-tariff in ventories, thus dela ying price adjustments. Contacts con-
tinued to reconfigure suppl y chains amid trade tur moil but noted difficulties e xecuting plans gi ven
the uncer tainty around final tariff le vels for different countries.
24
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending declined slightl y since the pre vious repor t. Retailer s saw fur ther softening in
demand as sho ppers, especiall y lower-income consumer s, became e ven more value conscious.
Many merchants who w ere still selling off pre-tariff in ventories e xpect demand to erode if, or when,
tariff-related price increases are implemented. Restaurants repor ted depressed volumes as
increasingl y value-conscious consumer s traded dow n or o pted to eat at home. Demand for ser-
vices w as repor ted as steady , with e xperiential spending outp acing goods purchases.
Travel and tourism acti vity grew modestl y, on balance, since the pre vious repor t. Although tra v-
elers’ booking windows and a verage lengths of sta y have shor tened, hotelier s were optimistic
about summer leisure tra vel as reser vations pick ed up closer to tra vel dates. Se veral major cities
in the Sixth District saw hotel occup ancy gains while hosting the 2025 FIF A Club W orld Cup. How-
ever, group bookings for some pro perties did not meet e xpectations as inter national tra vel to the
U.S. from Canada, Asia, and Euro pe, continued to slow . Demand for cr uises rebounded from lows
earlier this year .
Constr uction and Real Estate
While home sales in the District slow ed modestl y over the repor ting period, e xisting home in ven-
tory levels rose shar ply, especiall y in southw est Florida. Home prices remained at or near record
highs, but home price growth moderated or e ven declined. Homebuilder s noted w eaker sales,
which had been primaril y driven b y the use of incenti ves, such as price cuts and rate buydow ns.
Builder s also noted difficulties qualifying potential buyer s as credit qualit y deteriorated.
Commercial real estate (CRE) acti vity declined moderatel y, on balance, in recent months. The
office segment saw rising sales prices alongside moderate declines in transaction volumes; how-
ever, rents and vacancies w ere stable. Multifamil y conditions remained mixed, with some areas of
the District noting increased concessions on rents due to an o versuppl y of units. How ever, the
pipeline for ne w pro perties, though slowing , remained health y. Industrial mar kets experienced a
pullback in acti vity, characterized b y one industrial de veloper as “recession le vels of demand”
across the southeast, rising vacancies, and a cor responding dro p in rents. Retail CRE conditions
weakened, as both demand for sp ace and sales declined.
Transpor tation
Transpor tation acti vity rose at a modest p ace. Container traffic at District por ts continued to
increase, and some por ts noted that bulk and break-bulk freight volumes w ere perfor ming abo ve
expectations. Open hatch bulk car riers repor ted robust demand. Railroads saw slight declines in
intermodal volumes since the pre vious repor t, but year to date, inter modal total traffic hasFederal Reser ve Bank of Atlanta 25
exceeded 2024 le vels. T rucking acti vity remained slug gish. Risks to the outlook included geo poli-
tics, trade polic y, and a broad economic slowdow n that would imp act demand for transpor tation
services.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity was relati vely flat o ver the repor ting period. Contacts continued to highlight
expectations for low er demand in the second half of the year since consumer s pulled forw ard pur-
chases ear lier this year to circumvent tariffs. A fe w manufacturer s repor ted robust pipelines. Auto
manufacturer s in the District noted solid demand. Plans for in vestment and for reconfigured
suppl y chains w ere put on hold until manufacturer s had fur ther clarit y on trade polic y. Some food
producer s noted concer ns around the cost of compliance and the resulting imp acts to final prices
as the y implement ne w FDA regulations on food coloring and additi ves. The Atlanta F ed’s June
Business Inflation Ex pectations (BIE) Manufacturing Sector Repor t reflected higher sales le vels
and profit margins relati ve to the April BIE repor t.
Banking and F inance
Overall loan growth w as flat as business in vestment stalled amid economic uncer tainty and as
banks tightened standards for both commercial and consumer lending . Deposit le vels remained
steady , leaving loan-to -deposit ratios unchanged. Bank ers described increased household financial
stress and rising credit card usage among customer s. Delinquencies continued to tick up but
remained at relati vely low le vels. Slowing demand raised institutions ’ concer ns about some busi-
nesses ’ cash flow e xpectations and their abilit y to ser vice debt.
Energ y
Energ y acti vity grew at a moderate p ace. Contacts continued to repor t health y global oil and gas
demand. Liquefied natural gas production and e xports remained robust. While demand for petro -
chemical products w as strong , a contact described chemical production as o verbuilt, creating
some softness in the sector . Rene wable energ y contacts noted heightened uncer tainty sur-
rounding go vernment incenti ves that slow ed investment and caused projects to be dela yed or can-
celled. Rising geo political risk w as often mentioned b y industr y leader s, though some described
growing confidence in global effor ts to a void escalation.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .atlantafed.org/
econom y-matter s/regional-economics .26 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Chicago
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Se venth District increased slightl y over the repor ting period, while con-
tacts e xpected a slight decline in acti vity over the ne xt year . Emplo yment increased modestl y; con-
sumer spending , business spending , and constr uction and real estate acti vity were flat; manufac-
turing declined slightl y; and nonbusiness contacts saw no change in acti vity. Prices rose
moderatel y, wages rose modestl y, and financial conditions loosened slightl y. Prospects for 2025
farm income w ere unchanged.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment rose modestl y over the repor ting period, and contacts e xpected a similar p ace of
growth o ver the ne xt 12 months. Some manufacturing contacts continued to repor t difficult y
finding skilled wor kers, and contacts from staffing agencies noted a slight increase in demand for
their ser vices from manufacturer s. How ever, several other manufacturer s indicated that the y were
hiring onl y for replacement, some had cancelled plans to add staff due to low demand, and a fe w
had instituted la yoffs. And man y contacts said hiring conditions w ere stable or easing , with one
noting that impro ved labor a vailabilit y was allowing them to e xtend o perating hour s. Wages and
benefits costs w ere up modestl y overall.
Prices
Prices rose moderatel y in late Ma y and June, and contacts e xpected a similar p ace of growth o ver
the ne xt 12 months. Nonlabor input costs w ere up moderatel y, with contacts highlighting higher
costs for raw materials. Se veral manufacturer s cited increases in costs of materials due to tariffs,
including for steel, aluminum, tungsten, and magnets. O verall, producer prices increased moder-
ately while consumer prices rose modestl y. One retail industr y anal yst said that the y expected tar-
iffs to be felt broadl y at the consumer le vel in late Jul y and ear ly August although the y were not yet
materiall y imp acting retail prices.
27
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending w as flat on balance o ver the repor ting period. Nonauto spending increased
slightl y. Some categories where there w as a significant pull-forw ard of spending ahead of higher
tariffs saw sales decline, and other s, like appliances and computer s, saw slow er growth. There
were robust o verall sales gains at discount stores and w arehouse clubs, while spending on
apparel and foot wear softened noticeabl y. Leisure and hospitalit y spending w as little changed:
while restaurant sales increased slightl y, spending on air tra vel and at hotels decreased slightl y.
Sales of ne w light vehicles fell noticeabl y. Dealer s noted that the recent shor tfall in sales roughl y
offset the gains in ear ly spring when customer s sought to buy ahead of tariffs.
Business Spending
Business spending w as unchanged in late Ma y and June. Capital e xpenditures w ere flat, and
expectations w ere for little change in spending o ver the coming year . Several contacts said that
they had p aused capital spending due to economic uncer tainty. Demand for tr uck transpor tation
decreased modestl y and freight rates declined slightl y. Retail in ventories w ere at comfor table
levels. Despite ear lier concer ns about the potential for suppl y chain o verload due to a surge in
order s after the 90-da y pause on tariff increases w as announced, retailer s repor ted relati vely few
issues with impor ting goods. Ne w and used vehicle in ventories decreased noticeabl y due to the
sales spik e ahead of higher tariffs and the recent decline in production; the low er stocks contrib-
uted to upw ard pressure on prices. Manufacturing in ventories w ere slightl y elevated. One contact
at an economic de velopment agenc y noted that inquiries for sp ace in the F oreign T rade Zone the y
manage had risen dramaticall y.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction and real estate acti vity was unchanged o ver the repor ting period. Residential con-
struction declined slightl y. One contact in the Des Moines area noted that single famil y star ts
were dow n significantl y, while constr uction of tow nhomes and multifamil y units aimed at the rental
market was up. Residential real estate acti vity decreased slightl y. Growth w as concentrated in the
luxury segment where showings and sales w ere up comp ared with year-ago le vels. O verall, prices
rose slightl y and rents increased modestl y. Nonresidential constr uction increased slightl y. Com-
mercial real estate demand w as unchanged as w ere prices, rents, and vacanc y rates. Low er occu-
pancy rates in the industrial and multifamil y sector s were counterbalanced b y higher occup ancy
rates in the office and retail sector s.28 The Beige Book
Manufacturing
Manufacturing demand decreased slightl y overall in late Ma y and June. Order s for chemicals and
plastics declined a bit. Steel production increased slightl y. Fabricated metals demand edged up, in
part because of stronger sales to the defense and residential constr uction industries. Machiner y
sales increased modestl y, with growth in demand from the oil and gas industr y more than off-
setting low er demand from the automoti ve sector . Light vehicle production decreased, with some
auto manufacturer s repor ting suppl y chain disr uptions for hea vy rare ear th elements. Hea vy truck
production declined slightl y.
Banking and F inance
Financial conditions loosened slightl y in late Ma y and June. Bond and equit y values rose moder-
ately while volatilit y fell slightl y. Business loan demand w as up slightl y from the prior repor ting
period, though se veral contacts noted that demand continued to be at a w eak le vel due to uncer-
tainty. M&A volumes and valuations w ere low er than last repor ting period. Business loan qualit y
decreased slightl y, with one contact noting deterioration in the small business sp ace. Business
loan rates edged dow n, and ter ms tightened slightl y. Demand for consumer loans remained flat,
though one contact noted a decrease in demand for auto and home insurance. Consumer loan
qualit y, rates, and ter ms remained flat.
Agriculture
Expectations for 2025 far m income w ere little changed o ver the repor ting period, with an impro ved
outlook for li vestock o perations offsetting wor se prospects for cro p operations. Cor n and so ybean
crops got off to good star ts in most of the District, although progress lag ged in much of the
souther n part of the District due to late planting . Costs for agricultural ser vices, such as spra ying,
were higher , and as a result, contacts e xpected to use less fer tilizer and pesticides during the
growing season. Contacts noted that e ven though trade uncer tainty had eased, the y continued to
be concer ned about the potential for losing some e xport opportunities. Cor n and so ybean prices
fell over the repor ting period. Hog , cattle, and milk prices increased, while eg g prices
decreased again.
Community Conditions
Communit y, nonprofit, and other nonbusiness contacts repor ted no change in economic acti vity
over the repor ting period, reflecting a “pencils dow n” response to ongoing tariff and budget nego -
tiations. State go vernment contacts saw declines in income tax withholding and sales tax re venue.
Contacts wor king with small businesses repor ted hesitanc y around in vestment decisions amid
efforts to cut costs to preser ve margins. Leader s of nonprofit and social ser vice organizationsFederal Reser ve Bank of Chicago 29
said the y were confused about how to na vigate changes to federal funding , in particular for pro -
grams related to food, housing , and small business. Organizations ser ving low-income communi-
ties noted that prices of dail y necessities had stabilized, while food p antry contacts continued to
repor t unprecedented le vels of demand.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://chicagofed.org/cfsec .30 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
St. Louis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Consumer spending repor ts
were mixed. Residential real estate acti vity has slightl y increased. Bank ers across the District
repor ted impro ved ear nings perfor mance in the second quar ter due to low er funding costs.
Emplo yment le vels w ere generall y unchanged, and w age growth has been modest. Prices con-
tinued to increase moderatel y, and most contacts continued to e xpect higher nonlabor costs in the
coming months as a result of tariffs. The outlook among contacts remains highl y uncer tain and
slightl y pessimistic.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. Most contacts repor ted no
change to emplo yment le vels, and man y were ado pting a cautious w ait-and-see approach to their
hiring . A retail staffing fir m repor ted there w as a “high bar” for hiring additional wor kers through
the end of the year . An agribusiness contact repor ted that the y had not backfilled a couple of posi-
tions and had no plans to do so. A printing comp any repor ted hiring one fe wer per son than origi-
nally planned due to slow er demand. On the other hand, a real estate business repor ted that the y
were expanding and hiring to fill a variet y of positions. A manufacturer repor ted the y were hiring to
start a third shift; how ever, they have been unable to fill the o pen positions. Some contacts
shared that the y had lost their immigrant wor kforce due to fear s of incarceration and depor tation
and it w as restraining business acti vity. For example, a constr uction comp any repor ted that the
lack of wor kers was slowing project completion, and a landscaping comp any repor ted that the y
were unable to fulfill more than half of their customer requests.
Wage growth has been modest. F ewer contacts repor ted w age pressures than in our pre vious
repor ts. Contacts that did repor t wage pressures primaril y cited the need to meet higher costs of
living and to pro vide selecti ve wage increases to retain talent. A manufacturing fir m repor ted their
recent merit p ay increase w as 3.75 percent.
31
Prices
Prices ha ve increased moderatel y since our pre vious repor t. Some contacts repor ted absorbing
higher costs, but man y contacts repor ted passing along these costs to customer s. A bourbon pro -
ducer repor ted that the y were absorbing higher costs, and an auto dealer repor ted that, for the
time being , the manufacturer w as absorbing tariff-related costs. A p ackaging comp any repor ted
facing a pigment surcharge of 10 percent to 15 percent in anticip ation of tariffs and that the y were
not passing it along to customer s due to competition with larger manufacturer s. On the contrar y, a
constr uction comp any repor ted that HV AC equipment and utilit y billing had increased and that
those costs had to be p assed along . Consumer p ackaged goods comp anies repor ted increasing
prices, which will raise costs for grocer y stores o ver the ne xt 90 da ys. A w ellness center repor ted
that ser vice pro viders had responded to higher costs b y offering more add-on ser vices. A manufac-
turing comp any in Memphis repor ted the y had raised prices significantl y to offset the tariff cost on
steel and aluminum as w ell as tariffs on impor ts from China.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending repor ts were mixed. A museum contact repor ted that the y were seeing a
decrease in attendance and low er sales at their gift sho p. This trend began at the star t of the
year; at fir st the y had attributed it to the poor w eather , but now the y belie ve it reflects low er
demand. An auto dealer in Missouri repor ted that their sales in June had been slow , but that
increased constr uction acti vity nearb y may have been behind the slowdow n in customer traffic.
However, they noted that sales in another location had also been slow . Boutique stores in Little
Rock repor ted that hot da ys had been beneficial to their business: Sales w ere strong and cus-
tomer s were spending without the need for fur ther promotions or discounts.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing acti vity was mixed. A bourbon producer repor ted ongoing w eak sales due to low er
international demand. An engine manufacturer repor ted that, while recent sales had met e xpecta-
tions, the y were dow n relati ve to one year ago. A car manufacturer repor ted that sales w ere strong
and that the comp any was operating at full cap acity. A packaging manufacturer in K entuck y
repor ted that acti vity had rebounded in anticip ation of the tariffs and that sales continued to be
strong . A home appliances manufacturer repor ted that the y had recentl y seen an increase in the
demand for their middle-price-range products. The fir m is also looking to shift more production to
their domestic locations.32 The Beige Book
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Activity in the nonfinancial ser vices sector has been mixed. A contact in a regional chamber of
commerce repor ted seeing fe wer businesses o pening and more businesses closing , reducing their
overall member ship. A staffing comp any repor ted being ver y busy . A bankr uptcy attor ney serving
middle-sized to large fir ms repor ted that the y were recei ving more wor k than the y could handle. A
wellness comp any repor ted that some clients, especiall y corporations, had reduced their spending
or canceled contracts altogether due to budget constraints. Similar ly, nonprofit contacts repor ted
they are also pulling back on hiring and mar keting as donations and p articipation ha ve declined. A
nonprofit in Ar kansas repor ted that their recent fundraiser w as the wor st ever, despite it being t ypi-
cally their largest source of donations.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity has slightl y increased since our pre vious repor t. Acti ve listings and
sales in St. Louis and Louisville ha ve increased relati ve to a year ago. A residential real estate
firm in St. Louis repor ted that June sales w ere ahead of p ace due to se veral successful ne w part-
nerships and growth in business from peo ple who need to sell their homes quickl y.
Contacts repor ted that, while commercial real estate projects continued to progress, there w as
no ne w business taking place. An office reno vation comp any repor ted that projects had fallen
short of e xpectations, as businesses w ere not spending . A de veloper repor ted concer ns that
some projects requiring refinancing would not be profitable at higher rates, which could result in
foreclosures.
Banking and F inance
Banking acti vity has remained unchanged since our pre vious repor t. While credit conditions remain
strong , loan growth has been modest, with banks noting a decrease in loan demand. A communit y
banker in Mississippi repor ted that financing conditions had tightened, with higher interest rates
reducing both demand for loans and the cap acity to rep ay loans. Another District bank er repor ted
that the y were ado pting more conser vative underwriting standards, p articular ly for agriculture and
small business loans. A Missouri bank er repor ted that their por tfolio remained strong , yet the y
were seeing some signs of stress, including rising delinquencies in consumer and auto loans and
some cracks in commercial real estate. O verall, bank ers across the District repor ted that ear nings
impro ved in the second quar ter due to low er funding costs from balance sheet restr ucturing and
some loans in their por tfolio being repriced at higher rates.Federal Reser ve Bank of St. Louis 33
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Agriculture conditions ha ve remained strained. Contacts shared that sales in June w ere dow n and
that forecasts for the rest of the year w ere w eak. F armers in Ar kansas w ere concer ned that poor
crop conditions would limit yields, making it more difficult to generate a profit with low commodit y
prices. Some far mers repor ted reducing fer tilizer usage due to tight budgets and other s are still
trying to find additional financing to mak e it to har vest. An accountant repor ted reducing billing
rates for all their far mers this season due to concer ns about their financial stabilit y.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .stlouisfed.org/
research/regional-econom y.34 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Minneapolis
Summar y of Economic Activity
Ninth District economic acti vity was flat since the pre vious repor t. Emplo yment rose slightl y and
wages gre w moderatel y. Prices increased modestl y overall, with greater pressure among manufac-
turers. Tourism acti vity increased and residential real estate w as mixed. Manufacturing , vehicle
sales, and commercial real estate w ere flat. Nonauto consumer spending , constr uction, and
energ y acti vity decreased. Agricultural conditions remained flat at w eak le vels. Acti vity among
minorit y- and women-ow ned business enter prises w as mixed.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment rose slightl y since the last repor t. Sur veys found that hiring sentiment remained posi-
tive and job o penings gre w. Contacts repor ted increases in hiring , particular ly in tourism and hos-
pitalit y, but mostl y for p art-time and hour ly wor kers rather than salaried, full-time wor kers. Some
firms w ere postponing hiring due to the uncer tainty of tariffs, e ven if the y were not directl y
affected. Staffing fir ms repor ted spott y acti vity across the District. One fir m with multiple District
offices e xperienced a health y recent increase in clients and impro vements in job order s; a
Montana fir m said job order s were dow n after a strong fir st quar ter; a Wisconsin contact said
demand had impro ved after a slow fir st quar ter; and in Nor th Dak ota, professional and skilled job
opportunities rose while unskilled and administrati ve jobs w ere dow n. Emplo yers repor ted good
labor a vailabilit y, including among professional wor kers. How ever, most job seek ers were already
emplo yed and searching for better o pportunities.
Wage growth w as moderate o verall, with some signs of slowing . Recent sur veys found that w age
pressure w as similar to ear lier in the year . But staffing fir ms repor ted slowing w age growth; t wo
noted that the onl y clients raising w ages w ere those that cur rently offered uncompetiti ve compen-
sation. Another staffing fir m repor ted that year-o ver-year w age le vels for light industrial jobs ha ve
declined for t wo consecuti ve months. A Minnesota contact said that retailer s were finding
emplo yees “without ha ving to raise w ages to attract them. ”
35
Prices
Price increases w ere modest o verall with a slow er rate of increase than the last repor t, but price
pressures w ere greater among manufacturing contacts. About a quar ter of District fir ms increased
the prices the y charged to customer s in June from a month ear lier, according to a monthl y survey,
and about the same percentage anticip ated increasing their prices in the month ahead. Slightl y
less than half of respondents repor ted increased input prices o ver the pre vious month. Manufac-
turers continued to repor t that supplier s added surcharges on order s in response to tariffs, p ar-
ticular ly those on steel and aluminum. A constr uction materials supplier commented that “it
seems that prices ha ve gone up out of fear that prices will go up. ” In contrast, a custom manufac-
turer repor ted that tariffs imp acted onl y a small percentage of their inputs. Retail fuel prices w ere
little changed in most District states since the last repor t, except for Montana, where prices
increased slightl y.
Worker Experience
Most emplo yed respondents to a recent sur vey remained satisfied with schedule fle xibilit y and
were less satisfied with career advancement o pportunities. The to p priorities for unemplo yed
respondents as the y look ed for wor k were good p ay and schedule fle xibilit y. Most belie ved that
gaining ne w skills or pur suing higher education would help their career prospects. A contact
familiar with immigrant communities in Minnesota noted that undocumented immigrants continued
to show up for wor k, but the y were avoiding some sho pping , traveling , and other leisure acti vities
out of fear . Other wor kers were changing jobs as a strateg y to minimize the risk of depor tation.
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending w as slightl y lower since the last repor t. Retailer s in Minnesota and South
Dakota noted foot traffic w as flat-to -down and o verall spending w as low er. Middle- and high-income
consumer s were repor tedly becoming more price conscious. A Montana salon ow ner repor ted that
customer s were extending time bet ween haircuts and other ser vices. A contact belie ved that
stronger purchasing in advance of tariffs ma y be dampening recent spending . How ever, tourism
contacts generall y repor ted solid acti vity. A contact in nor thwester n Minnesota said that “con-
sumer spending ma y be tightening a bit, but o verall, tourism and local sho pping remain acti ve. . . .
Stores and restaurants are busy .” A Wisconsin contact pointed out that local businesses w ere
able to tak e advantage of good crowds “because their labor situations ha ve impro ved.” How ever,
sources also noted that inter national tra vel was dow n, especiall y from Canada. Hotel occup ancy
rates w ere low er in the Dak otas and Montana, and higher in Minnesota and Wisconsin. Recent car
and tr uck sales w ere flat, and sales of recreational and pow ersport vehicles w ere low er than
last year .36 The Beige Book
Constr uction and Real Estate
Constr uction acti vity was modestl y lower on balance, dri ven mostl y by a decline in acti ve residen-
tial projects and a slow replenishing of backlogs. Interest rates, material costs, and trade polic y
remained limiting factor s among industr y contacts. P ermitting acti vity increased moderatel y across
most District mar kets, and se veral contacts repor ted increased order s. Expectations for the
upcoming w eeks w ere mixed as customer s held back in vestments on larger projects. “I do ha ve
work scheduled but nothing e xciting until August, ” shared a Minnesota contact, adding that their
current wor kload consisted of maintenance and small jobs.
Commercial real estate w as flat o verall. High financing rates and economic uncer tainty continued
to dampen ne w development in most subsector s. Office vacanc y rates remained high, but leasing
activity has repor tedly pick ed up as comp anies look ed for better sp ace to meet e volving needs.
Residential real estate w as mixed. Closed home sales in Ma y in Minnesota w ere vir tually
unchanged comp ared with a year ago; else where, the share of mar kets with increased sales w ere
similar to those with decreased sales.
Manufacturing
District manufacturing acti vity was flat on balance since the pre vious repor t. Manufacturing sur vey
respondents repor ted a net decrease in order s in June from the month prior ; the month-ahead
outlook w as also negati ve. In contrast, the inde x of regional manufacturing conditions indicated
activity increased in Minnesota and Nor th Dak ota in June from the pre vious month, while acti vity
in South Dak ota contracted. A producer of fluid handling systems repor ted a slowdow n in capital
spending among their customer s. A metal fabricator repor ted that cur rent business volumes w ere
stable but there “appear s to be an ominous volume cliff ahead which is signaling a dramatic
downturn.”
Agriculture, Energ y, and Natural Resources
District agricultural conditions remained w eak o verall, but cro p progress w as solid in much of the
District. According to preliminar y results from the most recent Ag Credit Sur vey, a strong majorit y
of respondents repor ted that far m incomes decreased in the second quar ter from a year ear lier.
The majorit y of cor n and so ybeans w ere in good or e xcellent condition, and most of the easter n
portions of the District w ere free of significant drought. How ever, drier conditions pre vailed fur ther
west, and wheat conditions w ere w eaker. Oil and gas e xploration acti vity and production decreased
slightl y since the pre vious repor t. An ethanol producer described demand as steady .Federal Reser ve Bank of Minneapolis 37
Minority- and W omen-Owned Business Enter prises
Activity among minorit y- and women-ow ned business enter prises (MWBE) w as mixed, and most
contacts e xpected declines in acti vity over the upcoming w eeks. Nonlabor input costs continued to
put pressure on profitabilit y as business ow ners experienced a reduced abilit y to p ass on costs to
consumer s. “Our costs will not change, but the cost of building materials [is] going up, ” said a
contact in the constr uction industr y. Both emplo yment and compensation edged low er among this
group of businesses, with fur ther declines e xpected in the shor t term.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .minneapolisfed.org/
region-and-communit y/regional-economic-sur veys.38 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Kansas City
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the T enth District w as mostl y unchanged, with some rebound in consumer
spending and financial acti vity following declines in prior months. Job gains w ere subdued, and
wage pressures w ere expected to diminish. Labor a vailabilit y was repor tedly much higher , with the
notable e xception of the skilled trades for which job o penings far e xceeded the number of wor kers
for hire. Credit qualit y was mostl y stable despite some deterioration noted in consumer segments
and declines in rep ayment rates on agriculture loans tied to cro p farming. Oil and gas acti vity
declined as prices fell on net. How ever, volatilit y in oil prices in recent w eeks prompted an
increase in hedging acti vity, which contacts indicated will pro vide some suppor t to profitabilit y over
the near ter m. Prices gre w at a moderate p ace, with repor ted expectations for acceleration in price
growth during the second half of the year .
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels gre w slightl y over the p ast month. Ser vice contacts repor ted a modest increase
in the number of emplo yees, but it w as some what offset b y a small decline in headcounts at
manufacturing fir ms. W ages gre w at a moderate p ace, in line with contacts ’ expectations. Busi-
nesses indicated mid-year w age adjustments w ere negligible, if not being “off the table, ” consis-
tent with softer w age pressures going forw ard. Most contacts repor ted more applications for a
dwindling number of o pen positions, though labor a vailabilit y was repor tedly more limited in leisure
and hospitalit y and p articular ly scarce among the skilled trades.
Prices
Prices continued to grow moderatel y over the last month. Manufacturer s and ser vice pro viders
both e xperienced profit margin compression with input prices increasing more than retail prices.
However, some fir ms repor ted the y are planning broad-based price increases across product lines
to maintain profitabilit y. For example, the costs of sourcing used car in ventor y rose, which con-
tacts indicated will lead to per sistent auto price pressures. Ex pectations of price growth remained
elevated in most other consumer-oriented sector s as w ell.
39
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending rebounded slightl y over the last month, but contacts repor ted the reco very in
spending did not retur n demand to le vels e xperienced during the fir st quar ter of the year . Travel
spending led much of the reco very. Still hotels, national p arks, and restaurants all repor ted cus-
tomer s are spending less and sta ying shor ter amounts of time than is t ypical. Home rep air and
remodeling acti vity pick ed up, which homeow ners were repor tedly more lik ely to finance through
home equit y lines of credit. Ex pectations for consumer spending o ver the ne xt six months wor s-
ened in recent w eeks. 
Community Conditions
Nearly all communit y college and cer tificate program contacts repor ted strong job placement, with
many programs—such as building trades, diesel tech, w elding , and aircraft maintenance—
continuing to ha ve more jobs a vailable than there w ere graduates. These educational programs
also repor ted higher demand on their food p antries, mental health ser vices, and assistance for
transpor tation, housing and utilities among students. While most communit y education contacts
repor ted growth in local tax re venue and tuition dollar s, several w ere star ting to plan for chal-
lenges from pro posed federal and state funding changes, p articular ly around P ell grants.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity
The le vel of business acti vity was mostl y unchanged o ver the p ast month, with small contractions
in manufacturing acti vity being offset b y a small rebound in acti vity at professional and consumer
services fir ms. More businesses repor ted their customer s show ed heightened price sensiti vity
associated with increases in materials and input costs resulting from tariffs. The number of can-
celled order s rose significantl y as customer s balk ed at price increases. How ever, the backlog of
order s was pre viousl y elevated at man y businesses, so that the pickup in cancellations of order s
brought those backlogs back dow n tow ard typical le vels. Merger s and acquisition acti vity repor t-
edly began to thaw , but man y of the deals that had been frozen pre viousl y were completed at sig-
nificant discounts. The notable e xception w as comp anies selling AI-related technologies, which
were acquired for prices at significant multiples of their re venues, whether at the star tup phase or
more mature in their de velopment. Regarding risks to their outlooks, the majorit y of contacts indi-
cated the y were “ver y concer ned” about domestic demand and that access to credit and the le vel
of bor rowing rates w ere “not a significant concer n,” with onl y a fe w businesses indicating there
were “ver y concer ned” about financial constraints.40 The Beige Book
Real Estate and Constr uction
Over the p ast eight w eeks, there has been little to no change in vacancies or absor ption rates
among commercial real estate (CRE) pro perties within the District, while sales volumes and prices
increased modestl y. Activity in the industrial segment has been dri ven b y sustained demand for
mid- to large-scale de velopment. The k ey theme among contacts ’ repor ts remains uncer tainty,
which dela yed projects despite a vailable capital. As one fir m noted, “at some point the y will punch
through the uncer tainty because of pent-up demand. ” In the office mar ket, expectations centered
on continued remodeling of e xisting sp aces with demand concentrated on higher qualit y assets.
Community and Regional Banking
District banks noted a slight uptick in o verall loan demand, with the primar y driver being a modest
increase in demand for commercial real estate and agricultural loans. Underwriting standards w ere
unchanged following the modest tightening obser ved ear lier in the year . Although loan qualit y has
remained stable for most District banks, se veral respondents noted some deterioration o ver the
last year , with continued e xpectations that loan qualit y will deteriorate some what o ver the ne xt
six months. F or those respondents that ha ve experienced or are anticip ating some deterioration,
the primar y concer n is related to consumer lending . Respondents noted pro visions to the Allow-
ance for Credit Losses (i.e., A CL) ha ve been stable or increasing moderatel y through the fir st half
of the year , with a combination of credit qualit y deterioration, loan growth, and economic forecasts
being the dri ving factor s for the increase. Deposit le vels remained relati vely stable.
Energ y
Tenth District oil and gas acti vity declined moderatel y. The number of acti ve rigs in the District fell
as oil and natural gas prices fluctuated in recent w eeks on their w ay dow n to low er prices le vels
comp ared to ear lier in the year . On net, oil prices ha ve fallen to near T enth District fir ms’ repor ted
break even price. Profits also decreased due to falling re venues combined with increased drilling
and completion costs. How ever, the recent fluctuations in oil prices associated with geo political
events repor tedly led to an increase in hedging acti vity at prices that will suppor t profitabilit y
throughout the remainder of the year . Contacts anticip ate natural gas prices will reach their
break even price within the year , but do not e xpect oil or gas prices to suppor t a substantial
increase in drilling in the foreseeable future.
Agriculture
The T enth District far m econom y remained subdued and agricultural credit conditions deteriorated
slightl y. Prices of major row cro ps remained low and k ept profit o pportunities nar row for most pro -
ducer s. Farm loan rep ayment challenges across the District increased slightl y comp ared with theFederal Reser ve Bank of Kansas Cit y41
previous year , with w eakening in rep ayment more pronounced in areas most hea vily concentrated
in cro p production. In other areas, strong cattle prices continued to pro vide some suppor t to far m
finances. A lender in Kansas noted that strength in the cattle mar ket was suppor ting di versified
farming o perations and k eeping them afloat. Looking ahead, w eak cro p profits remained a k ey
issue cited b y producer s, as w ell as uncer tainty surrounding the outlook for global trade and
domestic demand and ele vated concer ns about financial conditions in the coming year .
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .KansasCit yFed.org/
research/regional-research .42 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
Dallas
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the Ele venth District econom y was up slightl y over the repor ting period. Nonfi-
nancial ser vices acti vity grew modestl y while manufacturing production held steady . Retail sales
declined notabl y. Loan volumes e xpanded at a moderate p ace. Oil w ell drilling and completions
declined, but production remained flat. Housing mar ket acti vity weakened. Emplo yment le vels w ere
unchanged, and prices continued to increase modestl y except for tariff-related increases in the
manufacturing sector . Outlooks generall y remained pessimistic and uncer tainty elevated.
Labor Mar kets
The emplo yment le vel was unchanged o ver the repor ting period. While o verall manufacturing
emplo yment gre w modestl y, some petrochemical manufacturer s planned la yoffs through the end of
the year . In contrast, energ y contacts noted reconsidering planned la yoffs after the r unup in oil
prices as it is still difficult to find skilled oilfield wor kers. Some contacts repor ted la yoffs due to
federal go vernment spending cuts, although other s cited w eak demand. Multiple contacts repor ted
slow to no hiring at nonprofits with some mentions of job cuts. In addition, nonprofits noted their
clients are facing increased difficult y finding emplo yment. A fe w contacts that w ere still hiring
repor ted that it had become easier to find qualified peo ple. W age growth w as modest o ver the
past six w eeks and e xpectations for the year eased in June comp ared to three months ago.
Prices
Prices continued to increase at a moderate p ace, dri ven b y a notable pickup in the manufacturing
sector . Manufacturing raw materials prices and finished goods prices rose fur ther in June after
rising following the April tariff announcement. A fe w energ y contacts repor ted higher input costs
because of the steel tariffs. A transpor tation equipment manufacturer noted that e ven prices for
domestic steel ha ve increased as demand shifted from impor ted steel to domesticall y produced
steel. Ex pectations for 12-month price growth eased slightl y in June comp ared to March as
repor ted in a Dallas F ed sur vey of businesses.
43
Manufacturing
Manufacturing production w as flat in June, and ne w order s continued to decline; how ever, capital
expenditures gre w moderatel y. There w as slight growth in nondurable goods manufacturing
excluding petrochemical manufacturing which e xperienced declines, and robust acti vity in
machiner y manufacturing . Some machiner y manufacturer s repor ted that the y expect demand to
increase fur ther. Gulf Coast refineries noted little change in output. Manufacturing outlooks
remained w eak, and uncer tainty increased. According to a Dallas F ed sur vey, the to p outlook con-
cerns for manufacturer s are a potential recession, rising input costs, and mounting geo political
uncer tainty.
Retail Sales
Retail sales declined notabl y again in June. Auto sales also declined after consumer s had pulled
up their purchases. An auto retailer repor ted that car manufacturer s are decreasing incenti ves to
offset tariffs, fur ther alienating prospecti ve buyer s. According to a Dallas F ed Sur vey, 37 percent
of retailer s experienced suppl y-chain disr uptions or dela ys in June, a notable increase from a year
ago when 15 percent e xperienced the same. How ever, the problem is not as widespread as during
the pandemic. Retail outlooks remained negati ve amidst ele vated uncer tainty.
Nonfinancial Ser vices
Activity in nonfinancial ser vices gre w modestl y during the repor ting period. Growth w as dri ven b y a
rebound in the infor mation and other ser vices sector s. Meanwhile, transpor tation ser vices acti vity
deteriorated fur ther. Airlines repor ted w eak but stable demand for both leisure and business tra vel
attributable to cuts to go vernment spending and consumer s taking a w ait-and-see approach to
booking summer tra vel. Transpor tation and w arehousing contacts noted an e xcess in tr ucking and
warehouse cap acity due to a pullback in demand. Staffing ser vices fir ms spok e of a slight
increase in demand after it bottomed out in Ma y. In a Dallas F ed sur vey of business e xecuti ves,
the to p three outlook concer ns were a potential recession and high geo political and domestic
policy uncer tainty. Outlooks remained pessimistic.
Constr uction and Real Estate
Housing mar ket acti vity weakened during the repor ting period. F oot traffic and sales continued to
fall, and in ventories w ere rising quickl y. With softer demand, builder s are increasingl y relying on
marketing and incenti ves, including discounting , to close deals. Lot suppl y is rising and star ts
have slow ed. Outlooks w ere pessimistic amid w eak demand and ele vated economic uncer tainty.44 The Beige Book
Commercial real estate acti vity largel y remained steady during the repor ting period. Ap artment
leasing w as solid, but rent growth continued to be subdued due to the ele vated suppl y of ne w
units. Office leasing pick ed up modestl y, and contacts said there appear to be more signs of sta-
bility. Industrial acti vity softened slightl y. New commercial constr uction acti vity was subdued, and
outlooks remained cautious.
Financial Ser vices
Loan volume and demand accelerated in June after little-to -no-growth in the prior month. Strength
was dri ven b y commercial lending , while volumes continued to decline slightl y for mor tgages
and consumer loans. Credit tightening continued, but loan pricing declined. Increases in loan non-
perfor mance w ere mar kedly more widespread than in the prior period. Bank ers repor ted rising gen-
eral business acti vity for the fir st time in t wo months, how ever, their outlooks remain mixed.
Survey respondents e xpect an impro vement in loan demand and business acti vity six months from
now, but loan nonperfor mance is anticip ated to increase.
Energ y
Activity in the oil and gas sector w as slightl y dow n over the p ast six w eeks. Drilling and w ell
completion acti vity continued on a slow decline, but production held steady . Contacts noted that
while the r unup in oil prices due to the Mideast w ar temporaril y boosted re venues for some, it
did not last long enough to change spending plans for the year . Contacts e xpect to cut capital
spending in the second half of the year b y more than initiall y planned, as oil prices will lik ely
stay low on account of rising o verseas production. Energ y comp anies also repor ted ele vated un-
certainty. While outlooks for the energ y industr y are slightl y pessimistic, oil production is projected
to hold steady .
Agriculture
Drought conditions continued to ease, and timel y rainfall boosted cro p conditions across the
District. Cro p production prospects are fa vorable so far , but prices remain unprofitable for most
farmers. Cattle prices continued to set ne w records. Wholesale beef prices w ere also in record
territory. Contacts attributed the price strength to low er beef production p aired with robust con-
sumer demand. Contacts noted concer n in the agricultural communit y over continued tariff and
geopolitical uncer tainty. A sur vey of agricultural bank ers found that changes and uncer tainty in
trade polic y have led to a decline on net in the rate of loan rep ayments, loan demand, and net
farm income, and the y anticip ate this dow nward trend to continue.Federal Reser ve Bank of Dallas 45
Community P erspectives
Demand for social ser vices remained ele vated as nonprofits continue to adjust to actual and pro -
posed federal spending cuts. Nonprofits are wor king on locating ne w private sources of funding to
fill the gap. Some contacts repor ted that pri vate dollar s are also in shor t suppl y as competition for
donations and economic uncer tainty both increased. A Houston-area nonprofit had once e xpected
donations from the oil and gas sector to rise because of changes in federal polic y, but donations
have decreased as the sector faces domestic and geo political uncer tainty. A fe w contacts com-
mented that clients are not seeking ser vices out of fear of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
raids. Some organizations noted utilizing ar tificial intelligence (AI) to impro ve efficienc y and help
cut costs. The y noted various AI use cases such as perfor ming human resources tasks, con-
ducting research, anal yzing data, taking notes, and proofing documents.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .dallasfed.org/
research/te xas.46 The Beige Book
Federal Reser ve Bank of
San F rancisco
Summar y of Economic Activity
Economic acti vity in the T welfth District w as some what subdued but largel y stable during the
mid-Ma y to June repor ting period. Emplo yment le vels w ere slightl y lower on net with more fir ms
under a hiring freeze and using attrition and la yoffs to reduce headcount. W ages continued to grow
at a slight p ace, and prices rose modestl y. Retail sales e xpanded modestl y, and acti vity in con-
sumer and business ser vices eased. Acti vity in manufacturing and the residential real estate
market weakened some what. Conditions in agriculture, commercial real estate, and the financial
sector w ere largel y unchanged and deteriorated fur ther in the nonprofit sector . Looking ahead, con-
tacts repor ted making contingenc y plans in response to economic uncer tainty and an e xpected
pickup in inflation.
Labor Mar kets
Emplo yment le vels w ere slightl y lower on net o ver the repor ting period. Emplo yers across man y
industries and geographies repor ted instituting a hiring freeze and using attrition to reduce head-
counts. Critical positions, how ever, were still being filled, and fir ms generall y repor ted no problems
hiring in recent w eeks e xcept for ver y specialized roles. A fe w contacts in the manufacturing and
enter tainment sector s repor ted la yoffs due to low er demand. Nonetheless, emplo yment growth in
retail and food ser vices remained solid, suppor ted by summer seasonal factor s. Contacts in the
service and manufacturing sector s noted additional in vestment in automation and AI, reducing
their demand for wor kers on net. Emplo yee tur nover continued to decline.
Wages continued to grow at a slight p ace. F irms generall y described demand and suppl y for labor
being in better balance, increasing emplo yers’ bargaining pow er. Contacts in agriculture, food ser-
vices, health care, and retail repor ted steady w ages, while some financial ser vices and transpor ta-
tion fir ms noted higher w ages, especiall y for entr y-level positions. A contact in agriculture high-
lighted that a ne w federal guideline on the w ages of seasonal foreign wor kers might low er their
labor costs going forw ard.
47
Prices
Prices rose modestl y, similar to the pre vious repor ting period. Price increases w ere repor ted
across a wide range of industries, including manufacturing , health care, real estate, and financial
services. Insurance prices rose notabl y, and modest increases w ere repor ted in fresh food prices.
Higher tariffs, p articular ly for comp anies using hard ware components, intensified the pressure on
their final prices, leading some manufacturer s to include an e xplicit tariff surcharge. The cost of
raw materials remained ele vated, although prices for lumber and manufactured wood products
were repor tedly depressed. Contacts from the air line industr y highlighted low er-than-e xpected
summer airfares.
Community Conditions
Conditions deteriorated fur ther in the nonprofit sector . The cancellation of federal grants and a
continued dro p in charitable donations pushed se veral nonprofit organizations across the District
to reduce staff le vels and program offerings. Some repor ts highlighted the imp act from recent
enforcement of immigration policies on o verall conditions in affected communities and small busi-
nesses that ser ve them. F or example, contacts highlighted more cases of wor ker absenteeism
and declines in foot traffic in both urban and far ming communities. Demand for mental health ser-
vices and housing assistance programs remained ele vated across regions in the District. F ood
insecurit y rose some what in r ural and urban Mountain W est communities.
Retail T rade and Ser vices
Sales of retail goods e xpanded modestl y, a noticeable pickup relati ve to the pre vious repor ting
period. Demand for food, app arel, and foot wear trended up, with promotions continuing to dri ve
sales in some instances. Demand at home center s was stable despite generall y subdued con-
struction acti vity. Some retailer s repor ted shrinking their in ventories in anticip ation of future price
increases and low er customer demand for their products.
Activity in consumer and business ser vices eased some what in recent w eeks. Demand for busi-
ness and leisure tra vel moderated fur ther, and summer air tra vel volumes w ere low er than
expected. Se veral contacts in tourism and hospitalit y noted a broad-based slowing of acti vity in
the District, including the Las V egas area, which had been e xpected to remain more robust
through this summer . Demand for other ser vices also tick ed dow n, including those for restaurants
and legal counsel. Con versely, activity in health-care ser vices and medical testing w as unchanged,
and demand for custodial and securit y services pick ed up. Additionall y, contacts in facilities sup -
port highlighted higher demand for sustainable o ptions for food ser vices and facilit y maintenance
from their clients.48 The Beige Book
Manufacturing
Activity in the manufacturing sector softened some what in recent w eeks. Higher economic un-
certainty led man y businesses to defer capital spending and put projects on hold. As a result,
demand w eakened for man y manufacturer s’ products, including fur niture, machines, and wood
products. Additionall y, bad w eather in p arts of the United States put an additional strain on con-
struction and low ered demand for manufactured wood. Conditions in metal production and p ack-
aging machiner y were largel y unchanged.
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
Conditions w ere w eak o verall in agriculture and resource-related sector s but unchanged from the
prior repor ting period. While e xports benefited from a w eaker dollar , the o verall demand from
abroad for fresh produce and tree nuts w as below t ypical le vels. Domestic mar kets remained
solid, but e xcess suppl y stemming from w eak e xport mar kets pulled prices dow n and led some
farmers to hold off on in vesting in ne w equipment. Demand for Califor nia wine w as repor tedly
down domesticall y and abroad, resulting in low er selling prices, reduced seeding , and the remo val
of some e xisting vine yards. Se veral contacts highlighted continued issues with credit a vailabilit y in
agriculture, p articular ly for smaller grow ers in the P acific Nor thwest and Mountain W est.
Real Estate and Constr uction
Residential real estate acti vity weakened slightl y in recent w eeks. While demand remained solid
for single-famil y homes, sales w ere hampered b y limited a vailabilit y and high mor tgage rates.
Suppl y of multifamil y housing across the District e xpanded fur ther as more units w ere completed,
pushing dow n rents in some mar kets. Ne w constr uction acti vity was generall y limited in most
regions. How ever, large industrial and infrastr ucture projects in the Mountain W est, such as the
building of ne w data center s and chip fabrication plants, suppor ted single-famil y home constr uc-
tion in specific areas within that region.
Commercial real estate mar kets remained w eak and w ere generall y unchanged from the prior
repor ting period. Demand for industrial, office, and retail sp aces w as muted, which brought dow n
asking rents in some mar kets. Ne vertheless, leasing of retail sp aces in some urban areas in the
Mountain W est w as generall y stable. Commercial constr uction acti vity remained slow in the pri vate
sector as builder s and clients ado pted a w ait-and-see approach regarding trade polic y and its
effects on o verall economic conditions, including the a vailabilit y of materials and constr uction
costs. Constr uction acti vity for public sector projects such as transpor tation and utilities
remained solid.Federal Reser ve Bank of San F rancisco 49
Financial Institutions
Lending acti vity was subdued and largel y unchanged. Demand for commercial and industrial loans
was repor tedly restrained b y elevated longer-ter m interest rates. Demand for consumer loans,
including mor tgages, remained generall y muted. Competition for deposits pick ed up latel y
throughout the District, with some contacts attributing this intensification to a recent episode of
easing asset growth restrictions. Credit qualit y remained in line with historical a verages and
access to credit w as high, although some credit unions repor ted a moderate uptick in consumer
delinquencies. A vailabilit y of credit w as particular ly lower for businesses in the agriculture sector
and more generall y for small businesses o verall relati ve to larger fir ms. V enture capital deal-
making w as repor tedly strong for GenAI-focused comp anies.
For more infor mation about District economic conditions visit: https://www .frbsf.org/research-
and-insights/publications/san-francisco -fed-twelfth-district-beige-book/ .50 The Beige Book

www.federalreser ve.go v
0725