        For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. 
        W e d n e s d a y          July 23, 2008 
  
 
Summary of Commentary on   ____________________ 
 
   
Current  
Economic 
Conditions 
  
By Federal Reserve District 
        
 
         
July 2008 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON C URRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 
BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT 
 
July 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
SUMMARY...……………………………………..……..i 
First District – Boston…………………………...…..…I-1 
Second District – New York…………………...……...II-1 
Third District – Philadelphia……………………...…..III-1 
Fourth District – Cleveland………………...…….…...IV-1 
Fifth District – Richmond……………………...……....V-1 
Sixth District – Atlanta……………………...…….…..VI-1 
Seventh District – Chicago…………………...….…...VII-1 
Eight District – St. Louis……………………….....…VIII-1 
Ninth District – Minneapolis……………………….….IX-1 
Tenth District – Kansas City…………………………....X-1 
Eleventh District – Dallas……………………………...XI-1 
Twelfth District – San Francisco……………………...XII-1 
 
 i
SUMMARY*
 Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that the pace of economic 
activity slowed somewhat since the last report.  Five eastern Districts noted a weakening or 
softening in their overall economies, while Chic ago characterized its economy as sluggish and 
Kansas City noted a moderation in growth.  St. Louis said activity was stable and San Francisco 
reported little or no growth.  Cleveland and Minne apolis reported slight increases in economic 
activity, while Dallas described gr owth as steady and moderate.  
 Consumer spending was reported as sluggish or  slowing in nearly a ll Districts, although 
tax rebate checks boosted sales for some items.  Tourist activity was mixed, with residents in 
several Districts choosing to vaca tion closer to home due to hi gh gasoline prices.  The demand 
for services was also mixed across Districts, wi th strength in the IT a nd health care industries 
offsetting some weakness in othe r service sectors.  Manufacturing activity declined in many 
Districts, although demand for exports remained ge nerally high.  Residentia l real estate markets 
declined or were still weak across most of the country.  Commercial real estate activity also 
slowed or remained sluggish in a majority of Districts, although a few Districts noted slight improvement.  In banking, loan growth was genera lly reported to be restrained, with residential 
real estate lending and consumer lending show ing more weakness than commercial lending.  
Districts reporting on agricultural activity said conditions were mixed, based largely on how June 
precipitation affected them.  Di stricts reporting on the energy sector said it continued to 
strengthen.  
                                                 
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and based on information collected on or before July 14, 
2008.  This document summarizes comm ents received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal 
Reserve and is not a commentary on th e views of Federal Reserve officials. 
 
 ii
 All reporting Districts characterized overall price pressu res as elevated or increasing.  
Input prices continued to rise, particularly for fuel, other petroleum-based materials, metals, 
food, and chemicals.  Retail price inflation va ried across the country, with some Districts 
reporting increases but others noting some stabilit y, at least for the present.  Wage pressures 
were generally limited in most Districts, as labor market de mand was soft except for highly 
skilled workers and in the energy sector. 
Consumer Spending and Tourism 
 Consumer spending was reported as mixed, weak , or slowing in nearly  all Districts since 
the last report, although tax rebate  checks boosted sales for some items, especially electronics.  
Cleveland was an exception to th e trend, characterizing sales as stable to improving outside of 
the grocery sector.  Sales at disc ount stores were also reported as growing in the Philadelphia, 
Richmond, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco Di stricts, and New York reported brisk sales in 
New York City.  However, sales at most other types of stores, especially for discretionary and 
housing-related items, were typically characterize d as weak or falling, and restaurant sales were 
also reported as slow in the Philadelphia and Minneapolis Dist ricts.  The outlook for retail 
activity was also generally dow nbeat, with expectations “subd ued” among Atlanta District 
contacts and “grim” among Dallas District contac ts.  Despite sluggish overall sales, inventories 
were reported as largely satis factory in most Districts. 
 Reports on automobile sales were almost uni formly weak across Districts.  Sales were 
especially poor for large vehicles such as trucks, SUVs, and some mi nivans.  Indeed, auto 
dealers in the San Francisco District were increasingly reluctant to accept trade-ins of trucks and 
SUVs due to a lack of a wholesale market for these vehicles.  Demand for small fuel-efficient 
and foreign vehicles was reporte d to be solid or increasing in  the Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
 iii
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts.  Dall as reported that consumers were paying sticker 
prices for such vehicles, and th at they were in short supply.  
 Tourist activity was mixed across Districts.   Contacts in the Philadelphia and Chicago 
Districts reported weakness, and San Francisco said travel to Hawaii declined noticeably.  
Atlanta also noted increased hot el cancellations and shorter tr ip durations, although convention 
business remained strong.  By contrast, touris t activity to mountain areas of the Richmond, 
Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts was ch aracterized as stronger, which some contacts 
attributed in part to more re sidents vacationing close to home due  to high gasoline prices.  New 
York also reported strong tourism activity in Ne w York City, including for Broadway shows and 
at Manhattan hotels. 
Nonfinancial Services  
The demand for services was mixed among the va rious Districts, with strength in the IT 
and health care industries offsetting some weakne ss in other service sectors.  Advertising and 
marketing firms in the Boston District experi enced robust demand from the tourism and retail 
industries, and St. Louis reported the addition of two new call centers  in the area.  Dallas noted 
particularly strong demand for accounting, energy, e ngineering, and IT services.  On the negative 
side, New York, Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Fr ancisco reported services activity as mixed 
or decreasing.  San Francisco note d “grim” conditions for real es tate services such as title 
insurance, and some service firms in the New York  District expressed cau tion about hiring due to 
ongoing turmoil in the financial industry.  In tr ansportation services, New York, Atlanta, and 
Dallas reported weaker activity due to higher fuel costs, while Cleveland said activity remained 
unchanged and Richmond indicated an increase in  shipping volume.  New York said fuel, as 
opposed to labor, was now the number one cost for trucking firms and that most surcharges were 
 iv
considered inadequate to defray the escalated co sts.  Cleveland reported that many trucking firms 
had reduced capital spending, with  little change expected in co ming months.  Atlanta and Dallas 
noted a decline in auto and construction material s shipments.  Most services contacts expected 
flat activity heading forward.   
Manufacturing  
Manufacturing activity declined or remained weak in most  Districts, although Cleveland, 
St. Louis, and San Francisco reported stable or slightly increasing activity.  Many Districts 
reported a decline in production of housing-related goods, such as  construction equipment, wood 
products, home furnishings, and HVAC units.  Th e Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis 
Districts all reported declines in  auto manufacturing ac tivity.  However, St. Louis noted a slight 
rise in demand for parts of small and hybrid-type  cars.  An equipment producer in the Richmond 
District cited reduced sales due to interrupt ed shipments caused by higher gas prices and 
restrictive truck schedules.  On the positive side, producers of energy equipment saw increased 
demand in several Districts, and Minneapolis noted a rise in orders for wind turbine parts.  San 
Francisco said that food manufacturers continued to operate at or near peak capacity due to 
persistently high demand.  Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Kans as City reported continued 
high demand for exports.  Dallas noted strong over seas sales of high-tech  products in Asia, but 
cited weak demand in Western Europe.  Some manufacturers in the Boston District cited 
examples of robust demand in foreign markets, while others said foreign demand growth may be slowing.  Manufacturers in severa l Districts anticipated further factory weakness in the near 
future.  While most Districts expected stable  capital spending heading forward, a few noted 
manufacturers’ plans to reevaluate based on current economic conditions.   
 
 v
Real Estate and Construction  
 Residential real estate market s declined or were still weak across most of the country.  
Slower home sales were reported in the Boston, Philadelphia, Ri chmond, Atlanta, and St. Louis 
Districts.  Cleveland reported fl at to declining sales, while sale s remained sluggish in the Kansas 
City and New York Districts—especially at the high end—and were below year-ago levels in the 
Minneapolis District.  New York also re ported a drop in Manhattan condo and co-op 
transactions.  Inventories of uns old homes or condos were reported  as higher or excessive in 
several Districts, but Dallas noted  a continued decline in inventories, especially at the low end.  
Home prices continued to dec line in most Districts, and in creased use of incentives and 
discounting was noted in several Districts.  San Francisco noted particularly sharp declines in 
home prices in areas of California, Arizona, and Nevada that have experienced large increases in foreclosures.  Atlanta said home prices dr opped across the board.  On the other hand, home 
prices were said to be holding up in the Dallas District and were little changed in the Kansas City 
District.  Difficulties obtaining mortgage financing were reported in the New York and Chicago 
Districts.  All Districts reporting on single-family construction said activity continued to decline, and builders in the Philadelphia District noted a rising number of cancella tions.  The decline in 
new construction accelerated in some  areas of the Chicago District. 
 Commercial real estate activity  weakened or remained sluggish in a majority of Districts, 
although Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Kansas City noted some improvement.  Boston 
characterized sentiment in the sector as “decidedly morose,” and industrial markets were especially weak in that District.  Office market  conditions in the Richm ond District continued to 
weaken and were “bleak” in the Washington, DC area.  Vacancy rates increased in the 
Philadelphia and Atlanta Distri cts, and were up noticeably in  both Midtown and Downtown 
 vi
Manhattan, according to contacts in the New York District.  Office rents remained steady in the 
Philadelphia District, and were li ttle changed in the Boston Distri ct after taking concessions into 
account.  More positively, contacts in the Minnea polis District noted rent increases and positive 
absorption in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area o ffice market.  Districts reporting on nonresidential 
construction generally noted sl uggishness, which cont acts in the Chicago and Kansas City 
Districts attributed in part to prohibitively high construction costs.   Contractors in the Cleveland 
District were also worried about cuts but reported strong backlogs and a steady flow of inquiries.  
Contacts in many Districts also ci ted tightened financing as a c onstraint.  San Francisco noted 
particularly steep drops in commercial construc tion in the San Diego ar ea.  Retail space was 
described as overbuilt in the Bo ston and Chicago Districts.   
Banking and Finance  
Loan growth was generally reported to be re strained across the country, with residential 
real estate lending and consumer lending show ing more weakness than commercial lending.  
Overall loan demand was reported to have weakened in the New York, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco Districts, and was descri bed as sluggish in the Philadelphi a District.  St. Louis reported 
slightly positive overall loan demand.  A numb er of Districts reporte d sluggish growth or 
slowing demand for residential re al estate loans, and San Fran cisco described demand for such 
loans as very weak.  Consumer loan demand was reported to have declined in the New York, Chicago, and Kansas City District s, and grew more slowly in th e Philadelphia District.  Reports 
on business lending were generally more upbeat.  However, slight to moderate declines in 
business lending were reported in the New York, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts.  On 
the funding side, Dallas described competiti on for deposits as very tough, but Cleveland 
 vii
indicated that core deposits at smaller banks were stable to increasing as a result of a flight to 
safety by investors. 
Most Districts reported a furt her tightening of credit standards, especially for residential 
real estate and construction loan s.  Dallas reported that lenders  were tightening non-price terms 
and boosting loan spreads in response to increases in their cost of capital.  Tighter standards for 
construction loans were reported in the Atlant a and Chicago Districts, and San Francisco 
indicated that credit standards remained quite re strictive for both residential real estate and 
construction loans.  Tighter standards for busines s loans were reported in  three Districts, but 
banks in the Atlanta District were reported to be competing more intensely for business 
customers with good credit histories.  Kansas Ci ty and Boston reported th at tightened standards 
were especially prevalent on co mmercial real estate loans.  
 Among the Districts that commented on ba nk loan quality, some deterioration was 
reported, including in the Philadelphia, Richmond  and San Francisco Districts.  New York 
reported increased delinquencies on consumer a nd residential real estate loans, and San 
Francisco indicated that declines in loan quali ty were greatest for real estate loans and 
construction loans.  In the Dallas District, cont acts had not yet observed a significant decline in 
loan quality but expected deteri oration in coming months, especia lly for residential real estate 
and consumer loans.  
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Agricultural conditions were mixed across Districts following June precipitation, while 
high input costs trimmed profits.  Drought conditions eased in the Richmond, Atlanta, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas District s with increased rainfall.  However, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, and Kansas City reported that cool, wet weat her delayed corn and soybean 
 viii
development, and Chicago cited major crop losses due to flooding.  Heavy rains also delayed the 
winter wheat harvests in the Richmond, St. Loui s, and Kansas City Di stricts, although initial 
reports indicated average or above average wheat yields.  San Francisco noted robust agricultural 
export activity, but wildfires hindered growing c onditions in that District.  Most Districts 
reported concerns about higher input  costs.  Kansas City attribut ed slightly lower farm income 
expectations and increased ag ricultural loan demand to these higher costs.  Chicago, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas also indi cated that livestock producers were struggling 
with higher feed costs. 
Energy activity strengthened further with rising energy prices.  Oil and natural gas 
drilling remained strong in the Cleveland, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco Districts, with 
expectations of further explora tion.  In the search for new ener gy sources, Dallas noted increased 
drilling activity toward unconventio nal natural gas sources, and Kans as City cited rising interest 
in tapping shale oil deposits.  Minneapolis stated that wind farm development continued, 
although ethanol production slowed w ith higher corn prices.  Mini ng activity increased in the 
Cleveland and Minneapolis Districts.  Clevela nd indicated that equipm ent costs were rising, 
while the lack of equipment constrained oil a nd gas production in the Kansas City District. 
Prices and Wages 
All reporting Districts characterized overall price pressures as elevated or increasing.  
Input prices continued to rise, particularly for fuel, other petroleum-based materials, metals, 
food, and chemicals.  Chicago said the rate of gr owth in steel prices ha d flattened, but overall 
levels remained high.  Construction industry contact s in the Cleveland Distri ct noted rising prices 
for all types of products, including concrete, shingles, and steel.   Boston reported that contacts 
were anticipating further price in creases in oil derivatives, shi pping, and travel.  Many Districts 
 ix
reported on manufacturers’ plans to  raise selling prices as a resu lt of higher input prices, with 
several commenting on fears of a corresponding decr ease in customer demand and overall sales 
volume.  Several firms in the Philadelphia Dist rict indicated that sluggish demand has made it 
difficult to raise prices, and Atla nta District businesses were he sitant to pass-through increases 
due to a reduction in discretiona ry consumer spending.  One produ cer in the Richmond District 
indicated that his company would attempt to pa ss along price increases to customers but it may 
not be enough to offset cost increases.  Retail prices increased in severa l Districts, including in 
the Kansas City District—which reported an incr ease in hotel, restaurant, and resort prices—and 
in the Chicago District, where re tailers said they raised sellin g prices in response to higher 
wholesale prices.  On the other hand, New York a nd Cleveland reported relatively stable retail 
prices.  San Francisco also repor ted that final prices for many re tail items were stable or down, 
partly due to extensive discoun ting, although some contacts noted that pressures were likely to 
increase in coming months.  One ma jor retail chain in the New York District said that while costs 
under existing contract were not up substantially, some escalation in  prices was expected within 
the next year.   
Most Districts reported labor markets as unchanged or slightly weaker compared with the 
last survey period, and that wage pressures were  generally modest.  Demand for labor remained 
high for skilled workers in most industries, whil e several Districts repor ted widespread weakness 
in the financial services, auto, and construction industries.  Contacts in th e Cleveland, Atlanta, 
Chicago, and Kansas City Districts reported very little upwar d wage pressures, with the 
exception of the energy and skilled labor mark ets.  San Francisco noted some downward 
movement in wages for construction, finance, re al estate, and retail jobs.  But Boston and Dallas 
said more workers were requesting wage adjust ments to supplement cost of living increases. 
 
I - 1 
FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON 
Business contacts in the First District generally  report slowing economic activity.  Retailers and 
manufacturers are seeing declines or slower growth in sales or revenues than in the last few reports; 
commercial and residential real estate contacts contin ue to be downbeat.  The exceptions are consulting 
and advertising contacts, who cite  healthy revenue growth.  Most respondents mention cost pressures, 
especially from transportation and energy; manufacturers generally say they are raising selling prices. 
Retail  
Most retail contacts in the First District report a downturn in sales results for the months of May 
and June, but there were a few bright spots.  Same-store sales range from low double-digit decreases to 
low single-digit increases from a year earlier.  Even those contacts reporting positive sales growth say that consumers are scaling back their spending.  
Most retailers report reducing inve ntory levels in response to softening sales.  Headcount levels 
are mixed, with several respondents reporting reductions .  Capital spending is also mixed.  All contacted 
First District retailers mention cost pressures, mo stly relating to petroleum and metal-based items.  
Several respondents are taking, or looking for ways  to take action to address increased transportation 
costs for both merchandise and their employees.   
Overall, First District retailers are cautious to cau tiously optimistic in their outlook and expect the 
economy to remain a challenge until early to mid-2009.    
Manufacturing and Related Services 
Most manufacturers and related services providers h eadquartered in the First District see signs of 
current or future softness.  A broad range of comp anies report that sales are slow, that sales growth has 
slowed, or that sales growth is expected to slow by the fall. 
Demand for housing-related items remains weak; a home furnishings manufacturer is planning a 
major promotion in an attempt to avoid layoffs and an HVAC components manufacturer is shutting a 
factory.  Makers of consumer nondurables complain of poor sales at retail stores and restaurants.  A manufacturer of components for consumer durables just  enjoyed its “best quarter ever,” but has marked 
down sales projections starting in the fourth quarter.  A couple of manufacturers provide selected examples of robustness in foreign markets, but others note that foreign demand growth may be slowing.  
Contacts say that financial and legal services firms ha ve become hesitant to lease office equipment and 
subscribe to data services.  By contrast with the general trend, biopharmaceutical companies continue to 
report strong sales growth. 
Almost all contacted manufacturers voice concerns about elevated materials, transportation, and 
energy costs.  They are anticipating further hikes in prices for oil derivatives, shipping, and travel.  
Respondents generally have raised their selling pri ces in recent months, except for products governed by 
long-term contracts or subject to intense competition.   Over one-half of contacts expect to increase their 
 
I - 2 
selling prices further in the second half of 2008 and/ or early 2009.  While some contacts express worry 
that price increases have led or will lead to losses of market share, others indicate that their customers 
have become more receptive to price increases because they see them as a consequence of generalized 
cost pressures. 
About one-half of manufacturing respondents are contemplating (mostly small) layoffs in the 
second half of 2008.  Some of the remaining firms are continuing to recruit for added science and engineering positions.  On the whole, contacts raised U.S. wages and salaries in the first half of 2008 and 
plan no further adjustments this year, particularly since turnover rates have stabilized or declined.  
However, some note upward pressures because employees are increasingly voicing dissatisfaction with 
their pay in light of rising living costs. 
Manufacturers generally say that second-half capita l spending will remain in line with their 
annual plans, reflecting needed investments.  So me mention they will be taking a harder look at 
discretionary spending, and a few indicate that ongoing  financial market distress is deterring plans for 
IPOs and acquisitions. 
Manufacturers expect a weak or weaker economic environment in the second half of 2008 and the 
first half of 2009.  They describe themselves as “c autious,” “concerned,” “discouraged,”, or “anxious”—
especially with respect to consumer spending and sentiment. 
Selected Business Services 
The majority of First District selected business se rvices contacts report do uble-digit first quarter 
revenue growth from a year ago.  Demand for co nsulting services from the healthcare and information 
technology industries is robust; however, demand from the airline industry has softened significantly.  
Advertising and marketing firms are seeing robust demand from the tourism industry to promote local 
destinations as well as from the retail industry. 
Most firms are keeping bill rates stable after increasing them at the end of 2007 or at the 
beginning of 2008.  Several respondents note increased tr avel costs and fuel surcharges.  Advertisers are 
either hiring key senior staff or keeping headcounts stable.  Headcounts at all of the contacted New 
England consulting firms are growing, but at a sli ghtly slower rate than revenues.  One consulting 
respondent notes that a number of people on the jo b market are looking to “jump to stability,” making 
recruiting a challenge for smaller firms.  Contacted consulting firms indicate they are increasing salaries 
less this year than they did last year.   
The majority of New England consulting respondents expect steady revenue growth for the 
remainder of 2008, although they remain concerned about the economy.  
Commercial Real Estate 
Sentiment was decidedly morose among commercial real estate contacts this cycle, with the 
exception of a small mutual bank that continues to  enjoy robust demand for its small-scale commercial 
 
I - 3 
property loans.  Contacts in Providence, Boston, and Hartford all indicate that leasing activity was very 
slow in recent weeks, even slower than expected  based on seasonal considerations.  They say that 
businesses are stalling on lease renewals in the expecta tion of getting more favorable deals in the near 
future as the market continues to soften.  Still, no dramatic increases in vacancy rates have emerged as 
yet.  In the metropolitan areas of Boston, Hartford, and Providence, office rent growth appears close to 
zero after concessions are taken into account.  The indus trial property market has been very weak in both 
Connecticut and Rhode Island—in the latter case, vacancies are up and rents are down (both modestly) 
compared to last year.   
Sales activity is limited as credit remains very tight and buyers and sellers hold out for their 
preferred prices.  Investment sales and new constructi on have been hit particularly hard.  For example, 
three major building projects in downtown Boston (office and mixed-use high rises) are said to be 
currently languishing as they scramble to obtain tena nt commitments and financing.  As evidence that 
property valuations have fallen rela tive to operating incomes, sources report that capitalization rates for 
commercial property in greater Boston are now appro aching 7 percent, up from last summer’s estimated 5 
percent.  Despite enjoying brisk business and high commercial mortgage interest rates, a small Boston 
mutual bank foresees that it could run up against le nding capacity constraints before year’s end.  
Accordingly, lending officers at the bank have been instructed to adopt a “more selective” stance.   
Compared with the last report, contacts are less optimistic that market conditions will improve by 
year’s end.  One commercial broker is cautioning his clie nts to be prepared for a long period of stagnation 
in commercial property values and leasing demand.  Another is concerned that retail space is in oversupply in relation to forecasts of  weak consumer demand.  Despite  such pessimism, contacts do not 
predict a major bust in the market unless the regiona l employment picture worsens dramatically in the 
coming months, an eventuality that contact s currently take to be unlikely.   
Residential Real Estate 
Residential real estate markets in New England co ntinue to show slower sales in 2008 than in 
2007.  In Massachusetts, home sales decreased 10 perc ent year-over-year in May (although the monthly 
change represents the largest April-to-May sales increase in 10 years), while condo sales decreased nearly 
25 percent.  Connecticut and New Hampshire experienced year-to-date home sales declines of 27 percent 
and 23 percent, respectively, compared to the same period last year.  Rhode Island home sales decreased 18 percent year-over-year in April. 
Median home prices in Massachusetts decreased 9 percent year-over-year in May, while condo 
prices held steady.  Connecticut and New Hampshire both report year-to-date median home price declines 
of 9 percent compared to 2007.  Rhode Island hom e prices dropped 11 percent year-over-year in April. 
 II-1 
 
SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK 
The Second District’s economy has shown furthe r signs of softening in recent weeks.  
Manufacturers report that business activity has been st eady to slower since the last report, and that 
increases in both input costs and selling prices rema in widespread.  Contacts at non-manufacturing firms 
generally report further weakening in business conditions.  The labor market has slackened since the last 
report.  Consumer confidence slipped to new lows in June; however, retailers report that sales were 
mixed but, on balance, close to plan.  Tourism activity in New York City has held relatively steady, but 
at a high level, since the last report.  Housing mark ets have shown further signs of deteriorating, with 
sales activity down and prices flat to lower; Manhattan’ s rental market has also shown signs of softening. 
 Office markets in and around New York City were mostly softer in the second quarter.  Finally, bankers report weakening demand for loans (especially consumer loans), further tightening in credit standards, and increasing delinquency rates in the household sector.  
Consumer Spending  
Retailers report that sales were mixed but, on balance, close to plan in July, led by continued 
brisk business in New York City.  Sales were up modestly from a year earlier, overall, led by a pickup in sales of seasonal apparel.  Inventories are reported to be satisfactory levels.  Retail selling prices are reported to have remained steady since the last report; one major chain notes that costs for merchandise 
already contracted for the upcoming holiday season are not up substantially, but reports some significant 
escalation in costs for spring 2009 merchandise.  Cons umer surveys indicate further deterioration in 
confidence.  The Conference Board’s survey of Mi ddle Atlantic state residents (NY, NJ, PA) shows 
consumer confidence declining for the ninth straight m onth, to a 15-year low, in June.  Similarly, Siena 
College’s survey of New York State residents show s confidence slipping to its lowest level in that 
survey’s 9½ year history in June.   
 II-2 
 
Tourism activity in New York City has remained fair ly stable at a high level since the last report. 
 Broadway theaters report that business picked up somewhat in recent weeks, after a sluggish spring 
season.  After slipping roughly 5 percent below year-earlier levels in May and early June, attendance and 
revenues were up 3-4 percent from comparable 2007 levels since mid-June. Average ticket prices are 
running slightly lower than a year ago. Manhattan’s hotel occupancy rate held steady just below 90 
percent in June, while room rates continued to r un about 6 percent above comparable 2007 levels—about 
the same as in May but somewhat below the 8-10 percent gains recorded in the first few months of 2008. 
Construction and Real Estate 
Housing markets in the District showed furthe r signs of softening in the second quarter.  
Manhattan’s rental market showed signs  of slackening: a major rental brokerage reports that rents at mid-
year were flat to down slightly from a year ago, while the vacancy rate reportedly climbed from 0.8 percent at mid-2007 to 1.2 percent.  Separately, a l eading appraisal firm reports that selling prices of 
Manhattan co-ops and condos declined moderately on a quarterly basis but were still up about 11 percent 
from a year earlier (on a per square foot basis), reflecting a shift toward more sales of luxury apartments. At the same time, the number of transactions tumble d more than 20 percent, and the listing inventory was 
up more than 30 percent.  Brooklyn’s market showed even more weakness, with prices little changed from a year ago and the number of sales down more than 40 percent; most of the weakening was in the market for 1-3 family homes, with the condo and co-op market showing some resilience.  
A contact in New Jersey’s housing industry indicates that the market continued to deteriorate in 
recent months but not dramatically.  Prices have dec lined by an estimated 15 percent from peak levels in 
2005-06, with most of the decline coming in the past y ear.  Sales activity  is still described as weak; while 
buyer traffic is said to be holding up at the lower end of the market (under $300K), it is described as very 
weak at high end.  Builders note that it has grow n increasingly hard for prospective homebuyers to 
qualify for a mortgage.  Single-family construction ha s reportedly dropped off sharply over the past year, 
 II-3 
 
but multi-family re-development in urban areas has remained fairly stable.   
Office markets in the region showed further signs  of slackening in the second quarter.  Vacancy 
rates rose noticeably in both Midtown and Downtown Manhattan—particularly for sub-lease space; 
moreover, one industry contact notes an increase in “shadow space” (space that is unused but not 
officially available), which suggests further slack in  the market.  Vacancy rates were little changed at 
high levels in northern and central New Jersey, edged up in Fairfield County, but edged down in 
Westchester.  Asking rents fell in northern and central New Jersey but continued to rise across most of the metro area.  However, asking rents are conjectur ed to be overstating the underlying strength of the 
market somewhat, due to increased concessions.  In contrast with the general weakening in the office 
market, New York City’s retail rental market is still characterized as fairly resilient.  Finally, an industry contact notes that new hotel development has virtually ground to a halt but that the pipeline of existing development is larger than ever (close to 15,000 rooms), though a number of these projects are having 
trouble getting adequate financing.   
Other Business Activity 
A major New York City employment agency, specializing in office jobs, reports that hiring 
activity slowed further in June and early July.  Large Wall Street firms are holding off on hiring, while 
hedge firms are hiring only sporadically.  Firms in ot her industries are more cautious about hiring due to 
ongoing turmoil in financial industry.  The number of  people looking for jobs has increased but not as 
much as anticipated.  In general, non-manufacturing firms in the District report fairly widespread 
weakening in business activity and anticipate steady to declining employment.   
New York State manufacturers report that busine ss activity continued to weaken somewhat in 
June and early July, and a growing number report declining employment at their establishments.  
Contacts continue to note increasingly widespread escal ation in both prices paid and prices received.  A 
trucking-industry expert reports that  the industry is having a very difficult year and that a sizable number 
 II-4 
 
of firms have gone out of business—especially small to medium-sized firms.  Demand has reportedly 
weakened substantially, and fuel surcharges are cons idered inadequate to defray all of the escalating 
costs of gasoline.  This contact notes that fuel has now surpassed labor as the number one cost for trucking firms.   
Financial Developments  
Bankers report weakening loan demand—particularly in the consumer loan category, where 50 
percent of bankers indicate a drop in demand and onl y 12 percent report a rise; respondents also indicate 
weaker demand for home mortgage and commercial and industrial loans, but little change in demand for  commercial mortgages.  Bankers also report declining refinancing activity, on balance.  Respondents 
indicate a tightening of credit standards across all loan categories: the proportion of bankers reporting 
higher standards ranged from 26 percent in the commercial and industrial category to 35 percent on 
consumer loans.  No respondents indicate eased standards for any type of loan.  Bankers report narrowing spreads of loan rates over cost of funds in the consumer sector, but little change in other loan categories.  Finally, bankers indicate increased delinquencies on consumer loans and residential mortgages but little change in delinquency rates for commercial mortgages and commercial and industrial loans.   
III - 1 
THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA 
 
 Business conditions in the Third District weakened somewhat from June to July. 
Manufacturers, on balance, reporte d declines in new orders and shipments. Retailers posted 
mixed sales results, with year-o ver-year increases at discount stores but decr eases at most other 
types of stores. Motor vehicle sales continued to fall, and the year-over-year decline has 
worsened. Bank lending has been increasing slowly in  recent weeks. Residen tial real es tate sales 
and construction activity have eased further. Co mmercial real estate leasing and construction 
activity have remained sluggish. Reports of incr eases in input costs a nd output prices were 
somewhat more common in early July than they were in June. 
The outlook among Third District businesses vari es. Manufacturers forecast increases in 
shipments and orders during the next six months, but they have become less confident of a strong 
recovery. Retailers generally do not expect a near -term strengthening in sa les, and auto dealers 
expect slow sales to persist thr ough the rest of the year. Bankers anticipate a sluggish advance in 
overall lending. Residential real estate agents and home builders expect sales to continue to 
remain slow for some time. Contacts in commercial real estate expect leasing and construction 
activity to remain soft as long as overall economic  conditions are uncertain.  Service sector firms 
expect slow growth. 
 
Manufacturing 
Third District manufacturers reported a fall in shipments and new orders, on balance, 
during early July compared with June. Around one -third of the manufacturers surveyed noted 
declines in those measures, twice as many as re ported increases. Most of the firms that noted 
increased demand for their products cited company- specific circumstances for the gains; overall, 
there did not appear to be any clear industry pa ttern to the mix of positive and negative reports. 
The outlook in the Third District manufactur ing sector remains positive despite the on-
going slowness in activity. Nearly one-half of the manufacturers c ontacted for this report expect 
new orders and shipments to rise during the next six months, and around one-fifth expect 
declines. However, since the last Beige Book more manufacturers say the outlook has become 
less clear and capital expansion plans remain limit ed. One firm cited “general uncertainty about 
demand” and another said “concern about tax increases are a drag on business expansion.” 
III - 2 
 
 
Retail 
Retailers in the Third District gave mixed re ports on sales in early July. Discount stores 
posted year-over-year gains, but most other st ores had declines. Discount, department, and 
appliance stores generally received a boost from sales of appliances and consumer electronics, 
especially televisions, which they attributed to in come tax rebates. However, the increase in sales 
of these items was not sufficient to raise total sa les above the year-ago level for most retailers. 
Despite what one store executive termed “very large markdowns” on many types of 
merchandise, total sales have fallen below the ye ar-ago level for many stores. Business contacts 
also noted that restaurant business has declin ed since the spring and that vacation-related 
spending has not been strong. Store executives s ee no signs that consumers will step up spending 
soon. They observed that store traffic has dec lined and that consumers seem to be limiting 
themselves to what one retailer called “tar geted shopping trips” for specific needed items. 
Auto dealers in the region reported a con tinuing downward sales trend in early July. 
Although sales of some foreign small cars were ri sing, total sales of light vehicles were well 
below the level of a year ago. D ealers reported a sharp shift in pr eferences for different types of 
vehicles, resulting in an undesired rise in invent ories of pickup trucks and SUVs while supplies 
of small cars have been inadequate to meet dema nd. Dealers expect a prol onged period of slower 
sales while buyers’ interest in large vehicles remains low and manufacturers retool to produce 
more small cars. 
 
Finance 
Total outstanding loan volume at Third Dist rict banks has been increasing slowly in 
recent weeks, according to bankers contacted for this report. There have been slight gains in all 
major credit categories.  Most of the banks surveyed reported slow but steady growth in 
commercial and industrial lending, an easing in expansion of cons umer credit, and very slight 
increases in real estate lending.  Several banks indicated they were putting limits on new home-
equity lending and reducing amounts available u nder existing home-equity  credit lines. Banks 
were generally raising credit standards. One lend ing officer said his inst itution was “tightening 
standards across the board,” and a nother said his bank was “paring back loan-to-value ratios” for 
III - 3 
real estate lending. Nonbank financial companies were also tightening cred it standards, and some 
were curtailing lending to certain industries, pa rticularly real estate  and retailing. Banks 
generally reported further deterioration in cred it quality across all loan categories. Looking 
ahead, bankers expect loan grow th to remain sluggish until ov erall business conditions show 
definite signs of strengthening.  
 
Real Estate and Construction 
Residential real estate activity in the third District has weakened since the spring. 
Residential real estate agents reported sales of existing homes  have slowed, and home builders 
continued to see falling sales a nd rising cancellations. Real estate  contacts also reported that 
sales prices of both existing and new homes continued to decline, although they indicated that in 
most parts of the District the drop has not b een steep. Real estate agents said economic 
uncertainty and concern about the future cour se of house prices was restraining home buying. 
One agent said “buyers are looking at more homes and taking l onger to buy” and another said 
“the unstable economy continues to bring anxiet y to a lot of pent up potential demand.”  
Commercial real estate firm s indicated that construction, leasing, and purchase activity 
remained sluggish. Rents have been steady. Howeve r, there has been an increase in the overall 
vacancy rate, according to some commercial real estate agents, as tenants have reduced their 
occupied space and offered unused space on the subl et market. Contacts an ticipate that markets 
will likely continue to be soft while economic  conditions remain unsettled. As one contact 
explained, because “there’s too much uncertain ty, tenants adopt the do-nothing strategy” and 
negotiate short-term lease ex tensions rather than look for new or expanded space. 
 
Services 
Service-sector firms generally reported mode st growth in business conditions in early 
July. Some business services firms indicated th at growth had slowed since the spring, while 
others reported that growth has been steady. Some technology consulting companies and 
engineering firms indicated that they were seeing increased demand for services directed toward 
energy conservation, but some other engineeri ng firms noted that work on environmental 
projects has slowed. Most of the service-sector firms contacted fo r this report expect business to 
continue to expand during the rest of the y ear, although some business services companies 
III - 4 
expect slower growth in the sec ond half of the year compared with  the first half as their client 
firms implement measures to reduce operating cost s, including expenses for outsourced services. 
 
Prices and Wages 
Reports of increases in input costs and output prices were somewhat more prevalent in 
July than they were in June. Firms in the regi on noted on-going increases in the prices of food 
products, chemicals, industrial materials, meta ls, and energy. Many firms indicated that sluggish 
demand for their products has made it difficult for them to raise prices; nevertheless, companies 
that have significant commodity and motor fuel expenses generally repo rted that they were 
raising prices in response to the increased cost of these input s. Most of the firms reporting on 
employment costs in July indicated that wage  increases remained moderate. Employers and 
employment agencies in the regi on reported that demand for labor has not been as strong in the 
past few months as it was dur ing the same period last year. 
IV - 1  
FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND 
Economic activity in the Fourth District incr eased slightly since the beginning of June.  
Factory output was largely stable, though auto production declined.  The housing industry 
remains weak, with no improvement expected for the remainder of the year.  Most commercial 
builders reported that business is  expanding and backlogs are up.  Sa les by District retailers were 
steady to improving.  Demand for business loans grew, while lendi ng to households was mixed.  
Energy production was stable to in creasing.  And freight transport volume has been flat.      
On balance, employment levels were larg ely unchanged, and wage pressures were limited 
to energy producers.  Staffing firms saw a slight increase in the number of job openings, while 
the number of job seekers was unchanged.  Job vacancies were greatest in health-care, energy, steel, and chemicals.  Reports of rising input prices, especially for me tals and petroleum-based 
products, were widespread.  
Manufacturing.  Output by District f actories was largely stable during the past six 
weeks.  Reports of higher production levels were attributed to seasonal fa ctors and rising exports, 
while declining output was ascribed to weakening economic conditions.   On a year-over-year 
basis, reports were evenly split between production slowdowns and increases.  Most manufacturers are anticipating so me slowing in orders during the upcoming months.  Capacity 
utilization was at, or slightly below normal levels .  Steel producers and se rvice centers reported a 
softening market, which they attributed to a dow nturn in the auto industry.  The strongest end 
users for steel include energy a nd capital goods producers.  Our cont acts expect steel demand to 
remain at current levels or decreas e slightly during the third quarter.
  District auto production 
showed a small decline in May on a month-ove r-month basis, with decreases reported by 
domestic and foreign nameplates.  In terms of year-over-year comparisons, auto production was down appreciably.   
Capital spending remains on plan; however, ab out a third of our respondents said that 
they expect to cut back on capital projects in the upcoming months.  Credit remains available to qualified applicants.  Almost all of our contac ts reported price increases for raw materials, 
especially metals and petroleum-based products.  In response, three-fourths of them raised their 
product prices recently.  Looking forward, expect ations call for prices to continue rising—
IV - 2  
especially for commodities.  However, only half of our respondents said that they would consider 
additional price increases in the near future.  On net, employment at District factories showed a 
slight uptick, although some hires are on a temporary or contract basi s.  Wage pressure is not a 
major issue at this time.  
Real Estate.   Home builders reported little ch ange in market conditions—flat to 
declining sales and a slowdown in traffic.  Furthe r, builders are not expec ting any upturn in the 
industry for the remainder of the year.  Half of our respondents reduced  the list prices on new 
homes and discounting remained widespread.  Accounts of price increases for concrete, shingles, metal products, and fuel were common; in contrast , lumber prices were stable to declining.  
Subcontractors are readily availa ble at very competitive rates.   Several general contractors 
reported employee layoffs during the past few weeks, and none is expected to increase wages during 2008.     
Most commercial contractors said that busin ess is expanding.  Several mentioned that 
their companies have strong backlogs and a steady flow of inquiries.  However, builders told us that they are concerned about risi ng input prices and their ability to maintain current margins and 
backlogs.  Nevertheless, they do not foresee any dramatic downturn in business.  Several 
contractors commented that a lthough financing is available,  lending standards are becoming 
tighter.  Contract pricing remains stable outside of rising material s costs, especially for steel, 
concrete, and petroleum-based products.  Workfo rce levels remain largely unchanged, and little 
wage pressure was reported.    
Consumer Spending.  District retailers reported stable to improving sales across most 
segments—food being the exception—since our last report.  Grocery store managers said that 
sales were flat to declining.  Our respondents we re very cautious in their outlook for the third 
quarter, with the expectation of some slowdown in sales.  Reports from auto  dealers indicate that 
purchases of new and used cars were flat to dow n, the exception being fuel-efficient cars, which 
are “selling well.”  Purchases of SUVs and trucks were characterized as poor.  Dealers anticipate 
little change in sales during the coming weeks.  In  general, vendor price increases were limited to 
food items and paper products.  For the most part, capital spending remains on plan, though we heard reports of some retailers taking on additional projects.  Employment levels and wages 
IV - 3  
remain stable.   
Banking.  Demand for commercial and industrial le nding has been growin g, especially at 
community banks.  Segments showing strength in clude commercial real estate and energy.  On 
the consumer side, loan demand is best characte rized as mixed.  However, almost half of our 
respondents reported a slight increa se in auto loans.  Home mort gage origination was slow, with 
any pickup attributed to seasonal factors.  Bankers told us that lending standards are very tight 
and will remain so for the foreseeable future.  Reports on delinquencies a nd credit quality were 
mixed.  Core deposits were stable to increasi ng, with several community  bankers characterizing 
deposit increases as a “flight to safety” from equ ity markets and large banks.  On net, there has 
been little change in employment levels across Di strict banks.  Wage pressures are not a major 
issue at this time.  
Energy.  Oil, gas, and coal production has been steady to increasing during the past six 
weeks.  Looking forward, almost all our contacts told us that they expect to see a rise in 
production levels due to increased demand.  Reports indicate that s pot and contract prices have 
increased across the board, together with equipm ent and materials costs.  Capital expenditures 
were on plan or slightly higher th an projected.  Half of our res pondents told us they expect to 
increase the number of capital projects in the upcoming months.  Most producers reported that 
credit remains readily available.  Almost all oil and gas producers hired additional employees 
during the past six weeks or plan to expand payrolls in the near future.  Wage pressures are an 
issue due to competition for skilled workers.    
Transportation.   Freight transport volume has been flat during the past six weeks, with 
most carriers expecting current market conditio ns to persist through th e second half of 2008.  
Reports indicate that auto shipments are down, while  steel remains strong.  Fuel prices continue 
to rise.  Attempts to pass through these increases via a surcharge have met with mixed results.  Over half of our respondents reported that capital spending has slowed co nsiderably, with little 
change expected in the coming months.  Hiring was limited to driver turnover, and any wage increases fell within industry norms.
  
V-1  
FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND  
 Overview.  The Fifth District economy weakened further in June and early July.  Retail contacts 
reported generally falling sales, though discounters told  us they were seeing increased sales of certain 
items.  Additionally, residential real estate sales were slower in most markets, as was residential lending 
activity.  Commercial leasing activity also weakened across most markets, with little new construction expected, while demand for temporary workers was weaker.  Manufacturing activity declined overall, 
though exports showed further growth since our last report.  In contrast, commercial lending activity was seen as stable, on balance, with mixed reports across markets in the District.  Similarly, we received mixed reports from the services industries, and also mi xed reports of tourism activity during the holiday 
weekend.  Retailers and manufacturers noted furthe r input price increases, but had uneven results passing 
the additional costs through to their customers. 
 Retail.  District retail contacts reported generally falling sales in recent weeks, except at discount 
stores where retailers said sales and shopper traffic ha d picked up.  A retail spokesperson in central 
Virginia told us area grocery stores and golf courses had begun using gas vouchers as incentives.  In West 
Virginia, a sporting goods store manager said he had an inventory backup along with significant increases in supplier prices.  Rising supplier prices also affect ed a central Virginia hardware chain; an executive 
there reported reduced inventories to match falling sal es.  In contrast, a big box discount retailer reported 
increased foot traffic and sales of grocery and entertainment items as more people received government stimulus checks.  Automobile and light truck dealer s said their sales continued to slide, especially for 
domestic vehicles.  Retailers eliminated jobs in r ecent weeks and wage growth was flat.  Retail prices 
grew a bit more slowly since our last report, although several contacts noted that ongoing supplier price increases would be passed through to customers. 
 Services.  Contacts at services-providing firms gave mixed reports.  A central Virginia financial 
services provider said, "The situation is dour—clients are very discouraged right now."  Executives at 
various healthcare systems and hospitals in North Ca rolina reported that demand for services stabilized or 
rose.  Telecommunications contacts in West Virgin ia and in Washington, D.C., said revenue growth 
picked up in recent weeks.  In addition, national frei ght trucking companies in the District told us that 
their shipping volume rose.  The pace of hiring remained  flat at services firms.  Price growth slowed at 
most services firms, but average wages grew somewhat more quickly, notably at several healthcare facilities. 
 Manufacturing.  District manufacturers reported that activity  continued to pull back in June and 
early July as shipments, new orders, and employment  contracted.  Respondents generally attributed the 
drop off to shortages of raw materials and interrupt ed shipment schedules.  A South Carolina chemical 
manufacturer indicated that some of the slowdown was caused by a shortage of raw materials from China.  
V-2  
In addition, a contact at a machinery factory in North Carolina reported that interrupted shipment 
schedules, due to higher gas prices and restrictive truck schedules, had reduced sales.  Price pressures 
remained elevated and respondents continued to voice concern over rising energy and transportation 
costs.  A producer of door components in North Ca rolina told us that price increases from suppliers 
continued to come in unabated and that demand, wh ich seemed to have stabilized, had decreased again.  
He indicated that his company would attempt to p ass along price increases to its customers but he did not 
know if it would be enough to offset cost increases.  
 Fifth District export activity continued at a healthy clip in June and early July.  Port officials reported sustained growth in out bound tonnage, which was “still growing in double digits” at one port.  
Import volumes remained steady in recent weeks, alt hough several officials noted slight slowdowns from 
Northern Europe.  Fuel surcharges continued to ri se and respondents believe “they are here to stay.” 
Finance.  Residential lending activity cooled across most of the District in recent weeks.  
Contacts in the Carolinas described conditions as “slow ” and “quieter still,” while activity was slightly 
weaker in Richmond, Va., and the outer markets of Washington, D.C.  Credit standards continued to 
tighten a bit, according to lenders in Washington, D.C., Richmond, Va., Charlotte, N.C., and Hilton Head, S.C.  Additionally, several lenders reported diminishing credit quality. 
On the commercial lending front, activity was gene rally stable.  Loan demand ranged from steady 
to slightly up across Virginia and the Carolinas, a lthough activity weakened somewhat in the Washington, 
D.C., and Charleston, W.Va., markets.  Contacts in Washington, D.C., Charlottesville, Va., and Charlotte, N.C., reported further tightening in credit, especially fo r projects in real estate-related industries.  Credit 
quality showed signs of deterioration in Washington,  D.C., Virginia, and the Carolinas, where lenders 
reported an uptick in client bankruptci es and weaker financial statements.  
 Real Estate.  Residential real estate agents across the District reported generally slower home 
sales in June and early July as uncertain economic c onditions kept some prospective buyers sitting on the 
sidelines.  Several contacts reported increased buyer traffic and many listings but not many sales.  A 
Virginia Beach, Va., Realtor described that housi ng market as “anxious,” adding that people were 
“waiting to see what’s going to happen.” Additionally, a Fairfax, Va., contact told us the “heart of his market” had softened but remained “very fragile.”  In Richmond, Va., an agent predicted “a real challenge” for the housing market to turn around before the end of 2008.  In contrast, sales were good in the Greenville, S.C., market, and an agent in Charlotte , N.C., reported flat sales with an expected increase 
later this summer.  Several Realtors across the District reported lower house prices and ongoing builder 
incentives for buyers. 
Commercial real estate conditions continued to weaken across most of the Fifth District.  
Contacts in Washington, D.C., Richmond, Va., Charlo tte, N.C., and Columbia, S.C., reported that leasing 
activity for office space had subsided, with a Greens boro, N.C., agent adding, “things are sluggish for 
V-3  
everyone.”  Demand for retail space was mixed.  Cont acts in Charleston, W.Va., and Raleigh, N.C., noted 
a slight increase in activity, but conditions were “bleak ” in Washington, D.C.  Vacancy rates were mostly 
firm and rental rates were generally unchanged.  C ontacts in the Washington, D.C., and northern Virginia 
markets, however, reported owners accepting offers lo wer than asking prices, while office rental rates 
were up slightly for new space in Raleigh, N.C.  No major construction was announced recently, and 
agents reiterated that clients were ha ving difficulty financing new projects. 
 Tourism.  Assessments of tourist activity varied in recent weeks.  Respondents at mountain 
resorts in Virginia and West Virginia reported st ronger bookings for the week of the July 4th holiday 
compared to a year ago.  A manager at a mountain resort  in Virginia told us that residents of nearby urban 
areas were vacationing closer to home this summer.  He noted that owners of time shares were “using” 
rather than “renting,” which he attributed to hi gher gasoline prices and the close proximity of his 
establishment.  In contrast, contacts on the Outer Ba nks of North Carolina and in Myrtle Beach, S.C., 
indicated that bookings had slowed compared to a year ago  and noted that upscale restaurant patrons were 
cutting back on food and beverages.  Looking forward,  a hotelier at Myrtle Beach, S.C., reported that 
higher gasoline prices were reducing fall bookings in his area.  
 Temporary Employment.  Fifth District temporary employment agents generally reported 
weaker demand for workers since our last report.  Overall economic weakness was cited as the culprit for 
the very weak demand for temporary workers in the Hagerstown, Md., area.  Contacts in Raleigh, N.C., 
and in Richmond, Va., expected demand to strengthe n over the next few weeks as clients transitioned 
from summertime to the fall business season.  Additionally, some clients who had put projects on hold earlier in the year “to see how the economy turns out” were now ready to move forward with their planned projects.  Those skills most highly sought af ter included higher level professionals and those with 
technical, credit, collections, and legal experience.  
 Agriculture.  Scattered rainfall throughout the region brought  relief to some District crops and 
lessened the drought stress in several areas.  In North Carolina, showers helped alleviate drought concerns 
in the Central Piedmont and Central Coastal regions of the state, while precipitation in South Carolina 
improved peanut growing conditions.  Despite beneficial rains, a contact in Maryland indicated that some 
fields were showing signs of stress due to dry conditions.  Additionally, an analyst in South Carolina noted that some Upstate pastures had already gone dorma nt from a lack of moisture.  On a brighter note, 
apple and peach crops were reported to be in generally good condition in Maryland, and the winter wheat 
harvest was nearing completion in Virginia with yields looking favorable. 
 
VI-1 
SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA 
 Summary.   Sixth District business contacts indicated that overall economic 
activity weakened from June through mid-July.   Retailers and auto dealers reported that 
sales were lower than expected.   Tourism -related activity was mixed.  After noting some 
stabilization in recent months, contacts repo rted that residential real estate activity 
declined somewhat in June.  Building contra ctors indicated that commercial development 
remained weak and most industrial contact s reported that pro duction and volume of 
shipments were down from a year earlier.  Banking contacts reported that credit 
availability remained tight.  Labor markets re mained weak.  Further price increases were 
noted in energy, metals, and agricultural commodities.   
 Consumer Spending and Tourism.   District retailers reported that weakness persisted during June and early July with sales performing below expectations.   Despite this, inventory levels had not increased apprec iably according to the ma jority of contacts.  
Merchants’ expectations for the next several months were su bdued.  District vehicle sales 
continued to be weak, with contacts noting lower traffic and sales.  Tourism-related 
activity was mixed.  Hotel owners noted increased cancellations and shorter trip 
durations.  Convention attendance remained st rong in June.  However, some weakness in 
future bookings was noted.   
 Real Estate.   Reports from homebuilders and Rea ltors indicated that new and 
existing home sales remained below year-earlie r levels for June and early July.  Contacts 
reported that sales activity had weakened  again in June after having noted some 
stabilization in April and May.  Overall, hous ing inventories increas ed and home prices 
declined across the District.  The outlook for residential sales and construction activity 
over the next several months was weaker  relative to previous reports.    
Most District commercial contractors c ontinued to note declines in construction 
activity on a year-over-year basis.   Weakne ss remained most pronounced in Florida.   
Retail development slowed significantly, while vacancy rates among all commercial property types rose in most parts of the Di strict.   Overall, commercial contractors 
anticipate further softening through the rema inder of the year and a weak 2009.    
 Manufacturing and Transportation.  Contacts reported that both production levels and the volume of shipments were down in June from a year earlier.  A majority of 
VI-2 
manufacturers continued to re port reductions in employment and hours.  Most contacts 
also noted higher prices for raw materials a nd energy.  Automobile production at District 
plants remained weak overall.   
 Rapidly rising fuel prices continued to affect regional transportation companies.  
Most trucking contacts reported lower net reve nues in the first quarter.  Regional rail 
activity was down in June compared with a ye ar earlier as shipments of automotive and 
construction materials continued to drop, offsetting gains in coal, minerals, and farm 
products.  Inter-modal shipments were lower than year- earlier levels.   
 Banking and Finance.   Most District banking contacts reported that credit 
conditions remained tight.  The utilization of  C&I lines of credit increased, while some 
businesses were also reported as using cr edit cards, personal borrowing, or delaying 
payments as a means of managing cash flows.  Some creditors noted that while there has 
generally been less willingness on the part of banks to financ e construction projects, there 
has also been an increase in competition for commercial customers that have a solid credit history.   
 Employment and Prices.  More firms noted a re duction in hours and/or 
employment levels in June and early July than  was noted in previous  reports.  However, 
the persistent shortage of certain types of skilled labor continued.  Several employers 
noted that highly skilled workers are being kept on payrolls as long as possible because 
of concerns about being able to  hire them back later.  Wage increases were pronounced in 
energy-related industries and the healthcare sector.   
 District firms continued to struggle with higher input costs, especially for energy-
related goods and services.  Reports of businesses trying to pass on higher costs to 
consumers increased, but with only limited succe ss, or with limited expectation of being 
able to repeat price increases should costs incr ease further.  According to several business 
contacts, higher food and gasoline prices were cutting into cons umer discretionary 
spending on other goods and services.   
 Agriculture.   Scattered rains improved soil moisture levels to segments of the District, in particular Alabama and parts of Georgia.   However, extreme drought 
conditions still persisted in North Georgia a nd South Central Florida.  Many District 
VI-3 
growers continued to report that costs for fer tilizer, feed, and diesel were up substantially 
from a year earlier.   
 VII-1
SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO 
Summary . Economic activity in the Seventh Distri ct was sluggish in June.  Consumer 
spending was mixed and labor market conditions w eakened some, although they continued to vary 
by location.  Residential constructio n declined further and nonreside ntial construction showed signs 
of slowing.  Manufacturi ng activity weakened slightly.  Cons umer lending declined, while business 
lending was stable.  Cost pressures from rising material  and energy prices remained high, while 
wage pressures continued to be low.  Flooding and cool weather further set back crop conditions in 
June, although they improved toward the end of the month and in early July.  
Consumer spending .  Consumer spending was mixed si nce the previous reporting period.  
Federal tax rebates and increased discounting bo osted retail sales, but spending on automobiles 
slowed. Consumers continued to tighten their budgets  in response to higher food and energy prices. 
Spending on discretionary items such as furniture, apparel, and electronics  decreased and gasoline 
consumption fell, while food service sales were flat . Higher fuel prices discouraged travel, leading 
to a slowdown in tourism.  Tourism was also adversely affected by incl ement weather and flooding 
in some areas of the District. Light vehicle sales were lower; contac ts reported that General Motor’s 
sales incentives helped buffer the decline in June.  Higher demand for fuel efficient cars left dealers 
in short supply of these vehicles and with hi gher inventory levels of trucks and SUVs.    
Business spending. On balance, the pace of business sp ending was little changed from the 
previous reporting period.  A larg e manufacturer of heavy equipmen t is increasing capacity at two 
of its Illinois plants in what marks its first signif icant increase in capacity in the state in twenty 
years. Labor market conditions in the District weakened some, with Michigan exhibiting a larger decline due to developments in the automotive industry and Iowa experien cing a small drop due to 
the impact of the recent flooding.  Lay-offs were reported in the automotive and financial services 
industries.  A contact in retail trade noted that in creases in the minimum wa ge for several District 
states in July were reducing the demand for new hires. The demand for skilled labor remained 
strong and shortages of such workers continued to be reported.  In addition, a staffing firm reported 
that billable hours were re latively stable from the previous reporting period.   
Construction/real estate . The pace of construction slowed slightly from the previous 
reporting period.  The decline in re sidential construction continued in  June, and accelerated in some 
parts of the District.  In gene ral, prices continued to fall, although one contact noted some 
improvement in lower-tier prices. Absorption rate s of residential housing remained low and many 
 
 VII-2
builders continued to report an ex cess of inventories, particularly for spec homes. Showroom traffic 
slowed; and although financing i nquiries increased, many potential buyers were still finding it 
difficult to either obtain a mortgage  or sell their existing home. Credit also remained tight for new 
developments.  Nonresidential development and cons truction showed signs of slowing.  The rising 
cost of road building materials and tightening government budgets restricted the growth of 
infrastructure construction. Construction of retail outlets slowed further and several contacts 
expressed concern about overbuild ing in the sector.  The availa bility of financing for new 
commercial projects con tinued to tighten.    
Manufacturing . Manufacturing activity in the District weakened slightly from the previous 
reporting period.  Demand for heavy machinery for oil and gas extraction and mining remained strong.  However, contacts report ed continued weakness in the dema nd for residential construction 
equipment as well as some recent softening for nonresidential construction and agricultural equipment. Demand also remained soft for manuf acturers with close ties to housing, such as the 
home appliance industry. Cut-back s were reported in the production of ethanol; several already-idle 
plants are being kept off line and a few additional plants have been shut down.   Export-oriented 
industries continued to do well, but contacts noted a recent slowing in the pace of growth, particularly in demand from Europe. Activity remain ed strong in the domestic steel industry, and a 
contact in the pharmaceutical industry reported continued strength. Automakers reported domestic 
sales were lower in June and early July.  Contact s also noted an acceleration of the shift in demand 
toward smaller vehicles, and that sales declines ha d spread to previously popular segments such as 
crossover vehicles. Accordingly, pro duction cuts were planned for larger less fuel efficient vehicles. 
Banking/finance . Credit market conditions in the Di strict tightened fr om the previous 
reporting period.  Funding costs rose amid renewed vol atility in financial markets.  Consumer loan 
demand continued to decline as lenders further tightened standards.  Higher interest rates have 
reduced the demand for both mortgage  originations and refinancings.  A contact in the home loan 
industry noted that risk pricing guidelines for FHA lending set to go into effect in July will likely 
tighten the mortgage market further.  Business lo an demand was steady, partic ularly for commercial 
and industrial loans.  However, a contact noted unwillingness on the part of banks to engage in 
unsecured business lending.  In addi tion, concerns about the residen tial and commercia l real estate 
markets limited the availability of cred it for construction loans from banks.   
Prices/costs . Costs remained high for a variety of i nputs.  Increases in commodity, food, and 
energy prices were again cited by co ntacts in various industries.  There were also several reports of 
 
 VII-3
pass-through of these higher costs to downstream prices.  The rate of growth in steel prices 
flattened, but prices remained elevated.  The sc rap market remained ti ght with some producers 
struggling to get materials.  One contact noted, ho wever, that inventories at steel service centers 
were lean in part due to anticip ation of a possible future decline in prices.  Transportation costs 
were boosted by fuel surcharges, and retailers repo rted raising their prices in response to higher 
wholesale prices.  A contact in the service stat ion business reported pressure on margins from 
higher costs from credit card tran saction fees. Wage pressures re mained limited outside of the 
skilled labor positions that continue to experience shortages and the impact of new state minimum 
wages on the retail trade industry.   
Agriculture . Flooding compounded the problems of al ready slower-than-normal corn and 
soybean planting in the District. Planting delays due to excess pr ecipitation continued to affect 
every state in the District except Michigan. Crop insurance and other disaster programs likely will 
offset much of the economic loss to farmers. The co rn acreage expected to be harvested this fall 
dropped more for the District than for the U.S., while for soybeans it increased relatively less. 
Although crop development lagged that of a year a go by 2 to 3 weeks, warmer and drier weather 
toward the end of June and in early July improve d crop conditions in the Di strict. Corn and soybean 
prices were higher at the end of the reporting period, but remain ed below their recent nominal 
records. Grain elevators and farmers faced higher needs for liquidity to cover futures positions, 
resulting in constraints on sale s of future crops. Milk and cattle  prices climbed, while hog prices 
fell. Livestock operators continued to struggle with rising feed costs, which have led some hog 
farmers to reduce their breeding stock.  
 
 
 
 
 
 VIII-1 
Eighth District - St. Louis 
Summary 
Overall economic activity in the Eighth District  has remained stable since our previous 
report.  Contacts noted increases in the servi ces sector and, except for the auto industry, in 
manufacturing.  Retail sales reports were mixed.  Au to sales were down in June and the first half 
of July compared with a year ago.  Home sales continued to decline throughout the District.  
Lending at a sample of small and mid-sized District  banks increased slightly from early April to 
mid-June. 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity 
Manufacturing activity, excluding automobile  manufacturing, continued to increase 
slightly since our previous report.  Several manufacturers reported plans to open plants and 
expand operations in the near future, while a sm aller number of contacts reported plans to close 
plants and reduce operations.  Firms in the food manufacturing and plastic parts manufacturing 
industries reported plans to open new facilities in th e District.  Contacts in plastics, frozen food, 
and nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing i ndustries reported plans to expand existing 
facilities and operations.  Firms in furniture ma nufacturing and those firms listed as planning 
new openings and expansions all reported plans to hire additional workers to meet growing 
demand.  In contrast, contacts in the automotiv e and automotive parts industry reported various 
plans to lay off large numbers of workers, idle production shifts, and decrease operations because the demand for trucks and minivans made in the Eighth District is weak.  Contacts in the automotive industry are not optimistic that producti on will increase in the short term.  However, 
a few automotive parts manufacturers that supply parts to producers of small cars and hybrid 
vehicles are seeing an increase in demand and plan to hire additional workers.  Three firms in the 
 VIII-2 
automotive parts manufacturing industry announced that  they will close a plant in the District.  
Contacts reported concerns about the en suing effects on employment from ongoing 
consolidations in the brewing industry in the St. Louis area. 
The District's services sector continued to expand in most areas.  Several firms in the 
business support services industries announced pl ans to expand facilities and hire additional 
workers. Two new call centers will support a major retail operation and a computer 
manufacturer.  In contrast, many healthcare serv ices firms announced plans to lay off workers 
and consolidate operations.  One healthcare service provider announced plans to close its 
facilities.  Retail contacts expressed some concern heading into the summer months, as consumers make fewer trips and seem more willing to postpone big purchases.  Discount retailers reported an increase in sales while retaile rs of large durable goods reported weak sales.  
Auto sales were down in June and the first half of  July compared with the same period last year.  
Auto dealers indicated that sales of domestic trucks and minivans were down sharply. 
Real Estate and Construction 
Home sales continued to decline throughout the Eighth District.  Compared with the 
same period in 2007, May 2008 year-to-date home sales were down 19 percent in Memphis and 
Louisville and 16 percent in Little Rock and St. L ouis.  Residential construction also continued 
to decline.  May 2008 year-to-date single-family housing permits fell in nearly all District metro 
areas compared with the same period in 2007.  Permits declined 57 percent in Memphis, 41 percent in Louisville, 42 percent in St. Louis, and 34 percent in Little Rock. 
Commercial real estate construction reports  were mixed throughout the District.  A 
contact in western Kentucky reported that commercial construction is relatively strong, while a contact in northeast Arkansas reported that co mmercial construction is very spotty.  A top 
 VIII-3 
regional contracting contact in Memphis was optim istic concerning projects for the remainder of 
2008, but a contact in Evansville, Indiana, reported that industrial construction has slowed. 
Banking and Finance 
Total loans outstanding at a sample of sma ll and mid-sized District banks increased 0.5 
percent from early April to mid-June.  Real  estate lending, which accounts for 73.9 percent of 
total loans, was essentially unchanged.  Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 16.9 
percent of total loans, increased 1.3 percent.  Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.9 percent of 
total loans, decreased 0.2 percent.   All other loans, roughly 4.3 percent of total loans, rose 5.8 
percent.  During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 2.0 percent. 
Agriculture and Natural Resources 
The development of the District’s major crops remains behind its 5-year averages.  In 
early July, at least 88 percent of the total corn, soybeans, cotton, sorghum, and rice were rated in fair or better condition—comparable to last year.  As a percentage of total acres planted, farmers 
in the District states plan to harvest 5 percen tage points less corn for grain and 3 percentage 
points less soybeans than in 2007, partly because of recent flooding in Illinois, Indiana, and 
Missouri.  The winter wheat harvest is at least 93 percent complete in ove r half of the District 
states, but less than 70 percent complete in I llinois, Indiana, and Missouri.  Based on July 
estimates, total winter wheat production in the District states is expected to be about 77 percent larger than last year.   
IX-1 
NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS 
The Ninth District economy grew slightly since the last report. Modest increases in 
activity were noted in tourism, mining and commercial real estate. Activity in 
manufacturing, commercial construction, agri culture and energy was mixed. Decreased 
activity was noted in services and residential construction and real estate, while consumer 
spending was sluggish. Overall labor markets so ftened slightly sinc e the last report; 
nevertheless, some industries reported di fficulty finding qualified workers. Wages 
increased moderately, while significant price increases were noted for fuel and energy; 
lumber prices were lower. 
 Consumer Spending and Tourism 
Overall consumer spending was sluggish. A major Minneapolis-based retailer reported 
same-store sales in June were up 0.4 percent compared with a year ea rlier. A number of 
Minnesota retailers noted weakened consumer  spending, and some indicated that funds 
from the economic stimulus checks were being used to buy fuel and groceries rather than 
discretionary purchases. A Minnesota retail prop erty manager noted that traffic and sales 
appeared to be down during th e past few months. In additi on, two restaurant contacts 
noted that business was slow. Recent sales a nd traffic at a Minneapolis area mall were up 
slightly over a year ago; tra ffic over the Fourth of July w eekend was solid, according to 
the mall manager. 
An auto dealers association in Minnesota reported that new retail car and light 
truck registrations are expect ed to fall almost 4 percent in 2008 compared with 2007. A 
representative of the associati on noted that sales and traffic at  dealerships were very slow 
in June across all types of vehicles. In contrast, an auto dealer in Montana said that sales 
were on par with a year ago for forei gn cars with high fuel efficiency.   
Tourism activity increased. A bank direct or noted that recent visitor numbers 
were up Montana. Tourism officials in west ern South Dakota noted solid activity during 
the early part of the summer season. A Minneso ta-based travel agent noted that leisure 
travel was still up, although some customers were electing to travel closer to home 
instead of going abroad. The number of intern ational tourists traveling to Minnesota 
increased. Crossings of the International Bridge in Sault Ste. Marie in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan were up about 3 percent in June compared with a year ago. 
 
IX-2 
 
Services 
Activity in the services sector was down s lightly.  Contacts from information technology 
reported reduced activity, especially for support of the financial services industry. District 
contacts from the accounting profession expected flat revenues, profits, prices and productivity 
over the next 12 months. However, health care service firms continued to expand.  
Construction and Real Estate 
Commercial construction was mi xed. Some contractors noted th at the number of open bids 
was down and that competition has inte nsified. A 200-acre biot echnology research 
complex was under development near Roches ter, Minn. The value of June commercial 
building permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., was up 5 percent from a year ago. Residential 
construction remained slow. June residential permits were down 51 percent from year-
earlier levels in Minneapolis-St. Paul; permits were flat in Fargo, N.D. 
 Commercial real estate activity increased slightly. Contacts re ported rent increases 
and positive absorption in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area office market. One of the region’s 
largest office towers in downt own Minneapolis was put up for sale. However, the retail 
property sector remains weak throughout the Di strict. The residential real estate market 
continued its slump. Pending home sales in Minn eapolis-St. Paul were down more than 3 
percent in June compared with a year earlier;  average sale prices fell 12 percent. Reports 
indicated that home foreclosures rece ntly increased in Rapid City, S.D.  
Manufacturing 
Overall manufacturing activity was mixed sin ce the last report. A June survey of 
purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated increased activity 
in the Dakotas and slightly decreased ac tivity in Minnesota. Wind turbine and parts 
makers in South Dakota and Minnesota repo rted strong demand. A Minnesota boat maker 
reported decreased orders.  
Energy and Mining 
Activity in the energy sector was mixed, while  mining sector activity increased since the 
last report. Oil and gas expl oration and production were steady at high levels in the 
District. Expansion of wind farms continued. However, several ethanol plants reduced 
production and planned expansions were delayed due to higher input costs. Growth in the 
IX-3 
mining industry continued since the last report, as construction on a new mine began in 
Montana and an iron ore processing line  reopened in Northern Minnesota.   
Agriculture 
Agricultural conditions were mixed. Crop progress was behind last year and the five-year 
average for District corn and soybean producers.  Almost all of the District was free from 
drought. Most of the Montana and South Da kota small grain crops  were rated good or 
excellent.  The majority of pastureland was rated good or excellent, although cattle 
producers were concerned a bout higher input costs. 
Employment, Wages and Prices 
Overall labor markets softened slightly since the last report ; nevertheless, some industries 
reported difficulty finding qualif ied workers. In Minnesota, an  airline plans to reduce 
employment and a travel and hospitality co mpany announced plans to cut 200 jobs due to 
a smaller market for business travel. A hosp ital in North Dakota recently revealed plans 
to lay off 100 workers. A temporary staffing agency survey of Minneapolis-St. Paul 
businesses showed that 37 per cent of respondents expected to hire workers during the 
third quarter, while 29 percent expected to re duce staff. In last year’s survey, 44 percent 
expected increased hiring and 11 percent anticipated decreases. 
In contrast, some custom manufacturers in Minnesota and the Upper Peninsula 
were concerned about attracting qualified work ers to fill open positions. In North Dakota, 
difficulty finding qualified trad es workers for jobs at coal operations is expected to 
increase during the next few years as mo re construction projects come online and 
retirements increase.  
 Wage increases were moderate. Among re spondents to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) 
Area Business Outlook Survey, 35 percent exp ected employee compensation to increase 
over the next six months, down from 38 percent in last year’s survey. 
Significant price increases were noted for fuel and energy; while lumber prices 
were lower. A number of fuel surcharges we re being placed on top of transportation and 
some raw materials prices. Minnesota gasoline  prices at the end of June were $1 per 
gallon more than a year ago. Recent jet fuel and diesel fuel prices were about 75 percent 
higher. Residential customers of a Montana na tural gas utility were recently paying about 
50 percent higher prices for natural gas compared  with a year ago. In contrast, prices for 
lumber were down about 3 percent to 4 percent.  
 
 X-1  
TENTH DISTRICT- KANSAS CITY 
 
 Economic growth in the Tenth District moderated slightly in June and early July.  Most 
retailers reported flat, but weaker than expected sales.  Manufacturing activity dipped in the period, but the outlook was relatively positive, given current conditions.  The residential real estate sector remained depressed, but seemed to stabilize.  Commercial real estate saw some improvement, but the outlook was modest.  The energy sector continued to boom and agricultural conditions were generally favorable despite severe storms.  Prices for raw materials, including fuel, continued to increase significantly, and some of these costs were beginning to be 
passed through to finished products.   
 Consumer Spending.  Retail spending was flat from the previous survey period, but 
virtually all retailers reported that sales were lower than planned.  Many, although not all, of the retailers seeing a decline in spending from a year ago were related to the residential construction industry in some way.  Some business contacts re ported that low consumer confidence and high 
gasoline prices have softened sales.  Most auto dealers reported sales were down for the month and for the year, especially for large trucks and SUVs.  Access to credit remained a concern for many auto dealers.  The tourism industry was a relative bright spot in the Tenth District, 
especially in the Rocky Mountains, with visitor counts up for the month and year.  Although airlines were cutting routes, passenger traffic rema ined strong, especially in Denver.  Restaurant 
activity was flat, despite higher menu prices.  
 Manufacturing.  Manufacturing activity declined in June and early July.  Production and 
employment levels fell, and most firms continued to reduce inventories.  Expectations for future factory activity were generally positive, however, driven in part by persistently high demand for exports and agricultural and energy equipment.  Capital spending plans were mostly unchanged, but some firms planned to reevaluate based on surging fuel prices.  More producers than in past surveys were beginning to pass-through cost increases to consumers, which some contacts feared 
 
 X-2  
could seriously cut demand.   
 Real Estate and Construction.  The residential real estate market in the District was 
weak, but has stabilized, while commercial real estate activity improved modestly, but with a 
weaker outlook.  Residential sales remained slow in most areas, with a particularly low demand for higher-priced homes, but most agents expected little change in sales volume in the near-term.  Prices were lower than last year, but there was little change in prices since the last survey period.  At the same time, home price appreciation slowed in some areas in the District where 
appreciation had been considerably stronger in the last several months.   New residential construction softened, and with rising construction costs, existing homes were expected to be much more attractive than new homes.  District commercial real estate contacts reported an uptick in sales and leasing activity from the previous survey period, although activity still remained unexceptional compared with last year.  Both commercial vacancy and absorption rates moderated from the previous period.  Several contacts reported that new construction has been sluggish due to increasing costs and scarce financing options, and some expect this sluggishness to continue or worsen in the near-term.  Developers reported a slight decrease in current prices and rental rates, and most expected this to continue in the near future.   
 Banking.  Bankers reported tighter credit standards and slightly weaker loan demand 
than in the previous survey.  Demand for commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, and consumer installment loans declined moderately, while demand for residential real estate loans and agricultural loans remained essentially unchanged.  About half of respondents reported a tightening of credit standards for commercial real estate loans, the same as in the previous survey.  A quarter of respondents reported tightened standards for commercial and industrial loans, less than in the previous survey.  There also continued to be reports of tightened standards for residential real estate and consumer installment loans.  A little less than half of the banks said overall loan quality was down from a year ago, but some banks said loan quality had improved.   
 Energy.  District energy activity continued to be very robust in June and early July.  
 
 X-3  
Even though the District count of active drilling rigs was down slightly, contacts reported 
increased activity since the last survey period.  In addition, energy firms planned to expand production over the next three months.   Filings for intents to drill were up in Oklahoma, and some Colorado contacts noted that companies were exploring the idea of tapping shale oil deposits in northwestern Colorado.  Energy companies continued to report that financing was readily available, but production was constrained by a lack of qualified workers and the availability of equipment.   
 Agriculture.  District agricultural conditions were generally favorable after a series of 
severe storms in June. Crop prices rose to record highs in June as heavy rains delayed the wheat harvest and the planting of corn and soybeans.  After a slow start to harvest, District contacts reported average to above average wheat yields.  High feed costs continued to limit livestock profits despite stronger cattle and hog prices. Rising input costs fueled an increase in agricultural loan demand and tempered robust farm income expectations. Farmland price appreciation also slowed from its record pace. 
 Wages and Prices.  Price pressures continued to build since the last survey period, but 
wages remained steady with little upward pressure.  Rents were up generally for hotels and 
resorts, and many restaurants and retailers also reported higher prices since the last survey period and for the year.  District manufacturers reported much higher input prices, especially for steel, 
and for steel plate in particular.  Much higher prices for other raw materials and fuel also were reported.  A large number of manufacturers were being squeezed by energy prices.  Increasingly 
these higher input prices were being passed on, causing increases in finished goods prices, or alternatively, razor-thin profit margins.  Builders also reported higher costs, including for lumber, for which prices recently have been flat.  District labor shortages persisted, most notably 
for retail and tourism jobs and in the energy sector, and hiring announcements continued to outpace layoffs.  However, wage pressures remained muted, and while some firms worried about future wage pressure, most firms had no plans to raise wages.  
 
 XI-1
 
ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS 
Most contacts in the Eleventh District reported st eady, moderate economic gr owth in June and early 
July.  The main exception was home builders, who re ported a steeper decline in demand.  Most contacts 
reported increased concern about price pressures and uncer tainty about the national outlook.  Rising prices 
for energy and transportation were reported as boosting co sts for a wide range of industries and were said to 
be likely to lead to future increases in final product prices.  
Prices.  Continued increases in energy and commodity prices are negatively affecting a wide range 
of industries.  Many producers report that profit margin s have been squeezed and that productivity gains are 
no longer sufficient to hold off product price increases.  Because existing price contracts and many retailers 
require up to six months notice of price increases, ma ny firms report that they plan to raise prices 
significantly in the second half of this year.  
          Since early June, light sweet crude prices ha ve been fluctuating while setting record highs.   Natural 
gas prices have also been high and volatile. Natural gas i nventories are well below the inflated levels of last 
year.   Futures prices for distillates (heating oil and di esel), spot gasoline, and oil- and natural gas-based 
chemicals have also increased shar ply over the past six weeks.   
 Labor Market. The labor market remained relatively tight, but most respondents reported flat to 
only slightly increasing payrolls.  Respondents in slum ping industries, such as those tied to construction of 
single-family homes, reported some reductions in hours worked and maki ng some job cuts through attrition. 
Many respondents continued to report difficulty hiri ng skilled workers such as engineers, mechanics and 
certain administrative personnel. Overall wage pressur es remain mild, but respondents reported an increasing 
number of workers asking for cost-of-living increases.  One respondent also noted that the upcoming 
increase in the minimum wage will significantly increase the firm’s wage costs. 
Manufacturing . Producers of materials used in home construction—such as brick, stone and 
lumber—reported continued weak conditions.  Seve ral construction-related manufacturing respondents 
reported larger than desired inventories and said that they are reducing production to bring inventories down. 
Although overall lumber prices are falling, some lumber producers in the District report that rising energy, freight and import costs have led them to increase prices.  
Although still solid and above year-ago levels, demand for commercial construction materials 
continued to soften and is expected to weaken steadil y. Respondents in fabricated metal production said that 
demand was flat to slightly down, that backlogs are decreasing and that new orders and expectations of declining nonresidential building suggest further weaken ing.  Primary metal producers report that sales have 
been flat to slightly down while costs have shot up.  One contact reported that his natural gas bill increased 
100 percent over a year ago. 
 
 XI-2
 
High-tech manufacturers reported continued moderate  sales growth.  Firms selling products outside 
the U.S. with most inputs priced in dollars are pe rforming well. Semiconductors are seeing upward pressure 
on prices, although a recent effort to raise prices did not stick.  Demand was reported as steady for 
communication devices.  Sales to Asia remained strong but were weak in the U.S. and Western Europe.  
Demand in the food products industry has been m oderate with contacts reporting some recent 
improvement in sales growth.  While demand from restaura nts has slowed slightly, a pickup in retail demand 
has more than offset the slowing.  High food prices c ontinue to be a major concern, and manufacturers of 
processed food report that they have not yet been ab le to pass along all of the increases.  Specialty 
transportation manufacturers such as aircraft parts a nd emergency vehicles say that sales remain solid and 
their outlook is positive. Oil-based ethylene producers ar e operating at relatively low rates, while those that 
use natural gas are enjoying large cost advantages and operating full out.  Meanwhile, demand for 
polyethylene is strong because weak domestic sales  have been offset by strong exports.   
Retail Sales.  Retail sales were mixed—with discount stores reporting stronger sales and other 
retailers reporting flat to slightly declining sales.   Transportation costs and prices of commodity-based 
products and imported goods  continue to rise, squeezing profit margins.  Inventories were reported at desired 
levels, and employment was up for firms with new stores but down for individual store locations.  One 
contact reported that accounts past due have increased recen tly.  Most retailers said that their outlook for the 
remainder of the year is grim because consumer budgets are tight and the economy is weak.   
  Auto dealers reported mixed demand.  The switch to  small, fuel efficient cars has continued and has 
led to a shortage of such vehicles. Consumers are paying sticker prices for some small cars while domestic 
auto producers are offering rebates and large discounts, especially on trucks.   
Services. Demand for temporary staffing services picked up slightly over the past six weeks.   
Orders were strongest for professional and technical workers in IT, accounting, energy and engineering services. Demand for entry-level clerical work rema ined weak, but demand for HR professionals and 
manufacturing workers edged up.  One contact noted that the labor market in Texas is doing much better than 
in other parts of the country.   
 Demand for legal services continued to grow modera tely, with most of the growth concentrated in 
litigation and bankruptcy.  With the exception of continued strength in oil and gas, legal services to support transactions have declined.  Demand for accounting services remained modest.  
 Trucking companies reported reduced shipping volumes in the last month. Import volumes have 
declined and are not being completely offset by exports. Record fuel prices, along with price increases in 
almost every area of operations are having a major impact on the industry.  Railroad cargo volumes have 
been steady over the last 30 days.  Rail shipments of  residential construction materials continued on a 
downward trend and those of nonresidential building ma terials were only up slightly. Rail shipments of 
 
 XI-3
 
primary forest material—a leading indicator for reside ntial construction—have edge d up over the last four 
weeks. Shipments of motor vehicles fell sharply.  
 Airline demand has not changed much since the last survey.  In response to rising jet fuel prices, 
airlines are reducing capacity, laying-off workers, and increasing fares.   
Construction and Real Estate .  Homebuilders said that traffic and sales weakened fairly 
significantly in June, following weak but steady demand ear lier in the spring.  As a result, the pace of single-
family building activity has declined at a rapid pace.   Contacts said a number of factors—such as a weak 
stock market and higher gasoline and food prices—ha ve weakened demand.  On a more positive note, 
inventories of unsold homes continued to decline, especi ally at the lower end, and prices were holding up.  
There was some concern, however, about the large invent ory of vacant lots and reduced funds for real estate 
lending. 
Respondents say that nonresidential construction activ ity is beginning to slow and there are signs 
that activity may decline further.  Commercial real  estate respondents noted a continued decline in 
investment deals getting done, particularly for larger pr ojects.  There were reports  of a general drying up of 
liquidity in the market and a flight of capital out of real estate.  On the upside, higher quality assets did not 
see a major deterioration in value.  Industrial  and office leasing continued to weaken.   
Financial Services.   Financial services contacts reported that although there has been no significant 
decline in credit quality, they expect deterioration in coming months.  In particular, the quality of mortgage 
and consumer loans is a concern as home prices soften and consumer budgets are strained.  Contacts say that 
the increased cost of capital has induced  them to widen loan interest ra te spreads and to tighten non price 
terms of credit. Competition for deposits is very tough, and lenders are turning to other sources of liquidity. Commercial lending activity remains fairly solid. 
Energy.  Rising energy prices have pushed oil and natural gas drilling sharply higher in recent 
months. Land-based drilling directed to unconventional s ources of natural gas has seen the largest gains.  
Drilling companies are adding jobs but report having di fficulty finding workers w ith the skills they need. 
Agriculture.  Recent rains have provided some relief in most parts of the District suffering from 
drought-like conditions.  Crop prices continue to be favor able and are helping offset high fuel, fertilizer and 
other production expenses to some degree.  High feed  costs and low hay and corn feed supplies have 
weakened prices for stocker cattle and are hurting livestock producers. 
XII - 1 
TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO 
Summary  
The reports suggest that the Twelfth District economy expe rienced little or no growth 
during the survey period of June  through early July.  Upward price pressures remained severe for 
food and energy-intensive items but were moderate otherwise, and wage pressures eased further.  
Retail sales were sluggish, a nd demand growth slowed further for service providers.  
Manufacturing activity expanded on net, while sales remained strong for agricultural items and 
most natural resource products.  Housing mark ets showed no signs of recovery from their 
prolonged slump, and demand for commercial real es tate continued to weaken.  Contacts from 
financial institutions indicated that loan de mand and credit quality fell slightly on net. 
Wages and Prices 
 Price inflation was moderate for most items,  although increases in food and energy prices 
continued to put upward pressure  on overall inflation.  Final pr ices for many retail items were 
largely stable or down, partly due to extensiv e discounting, although some contacts noted that 
upward price pressures have been building and w ill cause increases in final prices in coming 
months.  Prices continued to increase for many commodities and raw materials, such as steel, 
aluminum, and titanium, and rising fuel prices have  resulted in larger a nd more widespread fuel 
surcharges among providers of transportation services.  
 Upward wage pressures generally eased further,  with contacts noting only slight increases 
in overall labor costs.  The reduction in wage pressures was widespread  but was particularly 
pronounced in sectors that have seen the larges t drops in labor demand, such as construction, 
finance, real estate, and retail.  However, dema nd and wage growth remained strong for selected 
groups of skilled workers, notably those w ith skills related to advanced technologies. 
XII - 2 
Retail Trade and Services  
 Retail sales were weak on net,  although a few respondents poin ted to a slight upward blip 
relative to the previous survey period that reportedly was fueled  by federal tax rebates.  Sales 
remained at low levels for department stores and many smaller retail ou tlets, causing inventories 
to rise.  Discount chains con tinued to outperform conventional department stores, generally 
registering modest sales gains.  As in other recent survey periods, respondents pointed to 
increases in food and energy prices as a restrain ing factor on sales of other products.  Sales of 
furniture and household appliances remained exceptionally sluggish, and unit sales of gasoline 
fell further.  Demand remained very weak for new and used automobiles, particularly larger, fuel 
inefficient models; dealers have grown reluct ant to accept trucks and SUVs as trade-ins on 
purchases, due to a reported “collapse” in the wholesale market for these vehicles. 
 Demand growth for service providers slowed  further.  While growth continued at a 
moderate pace for providers of health-care services, demand remained soft for providers of 
advertising, professional, and legal services.  For pr oviders of real estate services such as title 
insurance, conditions were described as “grim”  and employment reductions continued.  Tourist 
activity was flat to down in general, with noticeable declines re ported for Hawaii, and contacts 
expect further weakening over the balance of 20 08.  Airlines struggled with reduced travel 
demand and higher fuel costs, and contacts noted  plans for further cutb acks in flights.   
Manufacturing 
 District manufacturing activity was mixed across sectors but appeared to expand on net 
during the survey period of June through early Ju ly.  New orders have slowed for makers of 
commercial aircraft and parts, bu t production activity remained at  high levels due to extensive 
order backlogs.  Reports from semiconductor manufacturers indicated moderate growth in 
XII - 3 
revenues and high rates of capacity  utilization.  Manufacturers of heavy equipment reported solid 
demand and favorable profit margins, but makers  of wood products continued to scale back 
output and employment.  Production activity at petroleum refineries  was reported to be near its 
five-year low, and gasoline inve ntories were at average levels.  Food manufacturers continued to 
operate at or near peak capacity in response to continued robu st demand, although high 
commodity and fuel prices repor tedly ate into their profits. 
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries 
 Demand remained robust for agricultural item s and natural resources.  Sales grew at a 
brisk pace for a variety of crops and livestock  products, due in part to strong export demand.  
However, producers remained challenged by high pri ces for fuel and other inputs, and in parts of 
California extensive wildfires reportedly unde rmined growing conditions.  High demand for 
various minerals and petroleum products prompted  further expansion of extraction activity and 
capacity, including reutilization of previously dormant oil wells.  
Real Estate and Construction 
 
 Activity in District housing markets remained stuck at very low leve ls during the survey 
period, while demand for nonresidential real esta te continued to ease.  Demand for new and 
existing homes remained exceptionally weak, fueling further price declines, especially in parts of 
California, Arizona, and Nevada that  also have seen sharp increases in home foreclosures.  Some 
reports indicated that builders are using a variet y of incentives, such as covering buyers’ closing 
costs, to whittle away at th eir unsold inventories.  Cond itions weakened further on the 
nonresidential side, with contac ts noting a steep reduction in th e total value of commercial 
construction permits in San Diego and an ongoing  reduction in rental demand for commercial 
real estate in San Francisco. 
XII - 4 
Financial Institutions 
 District banking contacts reported that lo an demand fell slightly on net relative to the 
previous survey period.  Reports  on commercial and industrial lending were mixed, with some 
contacts reporting a noticeable pullback in demand and others reporting steady conditions, 
suggesting slight easing overall.  Demand for residential mortgages was reported to be very 
weak, and lending standards remained quite restri ctive for residential mo rtgages and construction 
loans.  Credit quality deteriorated  a bit further, mainly for real estate and construction loans, with 
community banks feeling the greatest impact. 
 