Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee  
December 15-16, 2009
 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System was held in the offices of the Board of Gove r-
nors in Washington, D.C., on Tues day, December 15, 
2009, at 2:00 p.m. and continued on Wednesday, D e-
cember 16 , 2009, at 9:00 a.m.  
 PRESENT:   
Mr. Bernanke, Chairman  
Mr. Dudley, Vice Chairman  
Ms. Duke  
Mr. Evans  
Mr. Kohn  
Mr. Lacker  
Mr. Lockhart  
Mr. Tarullo  Mr. Warsh  
Ms. Yellen  
 Mr. Bullard, Ms. Cumming, Mr. Hoenig, Ms. Pia-
nalto, and Mr. Rosengren, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee  
 Messrs. Fisher, Kocherlakota, and Plosser, Pres i-
dents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas, Minneapolis, and Philadelphia, respectively 
 
Mr. Madigan, Secretary and Economist  
Mr. Luecke, Assistant Secretary  
Mr. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary  
Ms. Smith, Assistant Secretary  
Mr. Alvarez, General Counsel  
Mr. Baxter, Deputy General Counsel  
Mr. Sheets, Economist  
 Messrs. Altig, Clouse, Connors, Kamin, Slifman, 
Tracy, and Wilcox, Associate Economists  
 Mr. Sack, Manager, System Open Market Account  
 
Ms. Johnson, Secretary of the Board, Office of the 
Secretary, Board of Governors  
 Mr. Parkinson, Director, Division of Bank Superv i-
sion and Regulation, Board of Governors  
 Mr. Frierson,¹ Deputy Secretary, Office of the Sec-
retary, Board of Governors  Mr. Struckmeyer, Deputy Staff Director, Office of 
the Staff Director for Management, Board of Governors  
 
Mr. English, Deputy Director, Division of Mone-
tary Affairs , Board of Governors  
 
Ms. Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of 
Board Members, Board of Governors  
 Ms. Edwards, Messrs. Levin² and Nelson,¹ Senior 
Associate Directors, Division of Monetary A f-
fairs, Board of Governors; Messrs. Rei f-
schneider and Wascher, Senior Associate D i-
rectors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors  
 Mr. Meyer, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors; Mr. Oliner, Sen-ior Adviser, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, Board of Governors  
 
Ms. Zickler, Deputy Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors  
 Mr. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors  
 
Mr. Bassett, Section Chief, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors; Mr. Roberts,² 
Section Chief, Division of Research and Stati s-
tics, Board of Governors  
 Ms. Beattie,³  Assistant to the Secretary, Office of 
the Secretary, Board of Governors  
 
Ms. Low, Open Market Secretariat Specialist, Div i-
sion of Monetary Affairs, Board of Gover nors 
 
Mr. Williams, Records Management Analyst, Div i-
sion of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors  
   
¹ Attended Tuesday’s session only.  
² Attended the portion of the meeting related to infl a-
tion dynamics.  
³ Attended Wednesday’s session only.  
                                                                                                                                                                               Page 1
Messrs. Fuhrer  and Rosenblum, Executive Vice 
Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Boston 
and Dallas, respectively  
 
Mr. Krane, Ms. Mester, Messrs. Schweitzer and 
Waller, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve 
Banks of Chicago, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis, res pectively 
 Mr. Weber, Senior Research Officer, Federal R e-
serve Bank of Minneapolis  
 
Messrs. Clark, Dotsey,² Fernald, Hornstein, Olivei, ² 
and Wynne, ² Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve 
Banks of Kansas City, Philadelphia, San Fra n-
cisco, Richmond, Boston, Dalla s, respectively  
 
Messrs. Friedman and van der Klaauw, ² Assistant 
Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
 Mr. Martinez -Garcia, ² Research Economist, Fede r-
al Reserve Bank of Dallas  
 
² Attended the portion of the meeting related to infl a-
tion dynami cs. 
  Developments in Financial Markets and the Fe d-
eral Reserve’s Balance Sheet  
The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in domestic and foreign f i-
nancial markets  since the Committee ’s November 3 -4 
meeting .  Financial conditio ns generally had become 
somewhat more supportive of economic growth.  There was little evidence of year -end funding pressures, 
although demand for Treasury bills with maturities e x-
tending just beyond year -end remained elevated.  The 
Manager also reported o n System open market oper a-
tions in agency debt and agency mortgage -backed s e-
curities (MBS) during the intermeeting period.  The Desk continued to gradually slow the pace of purchases 
of these securities in accordance with the program for 
asset purchases th at the Committee announced at the 
end of its November meeting.  By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified those transactions.  There were no open market operations in foreign currencies for the System’s account during the intermeeting period.  Since the Co mmittee met in November, the Federal R e-
serve’s total assets were  about unchanged, at nearly  
$2.2 trillion, as the increase in the System’s holdings of securities  roughly matched  a further decline in usage of the System’s credit and liquidity facilities.   The Manager 
noted that the System’s holdings of securities will tend to decline gradually after the completion of the asset purchase programs,  reflecting maturing issues and pr e-
payments on holdings of MBS .  The Manager noted 
that the Committee would likely wish to discuss in d e-
tail its policy for reinvesting the proceeds of maturing issues and prepayments ; he proposed , as an interim 
approach, continuing the practice  of not reinvesting the 
proceeds of maturing agency  securities or MBS pr e-
payments .  Meeting pa rticipants supported that interim 
approach pending further  discussion at future mee t-
ings. 
The staff presented another  update on the continuing 
development of several tools  that could be used to 
support a smooth withdrawal of policy accommodation at the app ropriate time; these tools include  executing 
reverse repurchase agreements (RRPs) on a large scale and implementing a term deposit facility (TDF).  To further test its RRP capabilities, in early December , the 
Desk executed  a few small RRPs with  primary dealers , 
using both Treasury and agency debt  as collateral .  
These transactions  confirm ed the operational capabi lity 
to execute triparty RRPs on a larger scale if so directed 
by the Committee .  The Desk was continu ing to deve l-
op the capacity to conduct RRPs u sing agency MBS 
collateral  and anticipated that this work would be com-
pleted by the spring .  In addition, the Desk reported 
that it was exploring the  operational issues associated 
with expanding potential counterparties for RRPs 
beyond  the primary dealers.   Staff also repor ted signif i-
cant progress in developing and implementing  a TDF .  
The staff noted that it  planned to ask the Board to a p-
prove  a Federal Register notice requesting public co m-
ments on a TDF and summarized the contents of the draft notice.  
The staff also briefed the Committee on recent deve l-
opments regarding various Federal Reserve liquidity and credit facilities, including the Term Auction Facility (TAF), the primary credit program, and the Term A s-
set-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF).  T AF au c-
tions continued to be undersubscribed even as the Fe d-
eral Reserve progressively reduced the total amount of funding available from the TAF.  With the exception of 
the TALF, usage of the other  facilities declined further 
as financial market conditions  continued to improve .  
The TALF expanded modestly , supporting issuance of 
asset-backed securities collateralized by consumer, 
small business, and student loans as well as commercial  
mortgage -backed securities (CMBS) .  Indeed, over the 
intermeeting period,  TALF lending supported the first 
Page 2                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee 
new CMBS issu e since June 2008.  On November 17, 
the Board of Governors announced a reduction in the 
maximum maturity of loans available under the di s-
count window’s primary credit program from 90 days 
to 28 days, effective  January 14, 2010.  Participants 
agreed it would be useful to consider further steps the 
Federal Reserve might take to move toward normaliza-tion of its lending facilities at upcoming meetings , when 
the Committee plans to discuss alternative approaches to implementing monetary policy in the longer -run. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation  
The information reviewed at the December 15 -16 
meeting suggested that the recovery in economic activ i-
ty was gaining momentum.  The pace of job losses slowed noticeably in  recent months, and total hours 
worked increased in November; however, the une m-
ployment rate remained quite elevated.  Industrial pr o-
duction sustained the broad -based expansion that be-
gan in the third quarter, but capacity utilization r e-
main ed very low.  Consumer spending expanded solidly 
in October, reflecting in part a faster pace of motor vehicle sales .  Both light vehicle sales and total retail 
sales rose again in November.  Sales of new homes i n-
creased significantly in recent months, a development that, given the slow pace of construction, reduced the 
inventory of unsold new homes; sales of existing homes rose strongly.  Spending on equipment and software continued to stabilize, but investment in non-
residential structures declined further as conditions in 
nonresidential real estate markets remained  poor.  Both 
imports and exports continued to recover from their depressed levels of earlier this year, and the U.S. trade deficit in September and October was wider than in earlier months.  Although a jump in energy prices 
pushed up headline inflation somewhat, core con sumer 
price  inflation  remained subdued.  
Data received over the intermeeting period suggested that the pace of job loss slowed considerably in recent months relative to the steep declines that occ urred in 
the first half of the year.  The average decline in private payrolls in October and November was much smaller than in the third quarter ; that recent improvement was 
widespread across industries.  The length of the average workweek for production a nd nonsupervisory workers 
increased in November ; moreover , aggregate hours 
worked registered the first substantial increase since the 
recession began.  The unemployment rate dropped in November  but remained quite high, while the labor 
force participation r ate continued to decrease.  The 
four-week moving average of initial claims for une m-
ployment benefits declined somewhat through early December.  Continuing claims for unemployment i n-
surance through regular state programs also moved down, but the average len gth of spells of unemploy-
ment continued to increase.  
After expanding briskly in the third quarter, industrial production increase d further  in October and Nove m-
ber.  The gains continued to be fairly broad based, and 
were particularly strong for consumer dur ables and 
materials.  Business surveys suggested that factory ou t-
put would advance further in the coming months.  Ca-
pacity utilization rose again in  November, but remained 
at a very low level by historical standards.  
Real personal consumption expenditures increased at a solid pace in October, with broad -based advances in 
both goods and services.  The data for nominal retail sales in November showed continued widespread im-provement, particularly at general merchandise stores, electronics and appliance stores , and nonstore retailers.  
Outlays for motor vehicles bounced back in October after a slump in September that followed the end of the 
“cash-for-clunkers ” program in August.  Sales of new 
light vehicles increased again in November.  Real di s-
posable personal  income rose in October, reflecting 
modest gains in nominal labor income; moreover, the 
increase in real after -tax income during the spring and 
summer was revised up.  The latest readings from i n-
dexes of consumer sentiment remained within the rel a-
tively lo w range that prevailed over the previous six 
months, apparently still weighed down by weak labor market conditions and prior declines in household net worth.  
Housing construction held fairly steady in recent 
months, while demand for housing continued to fi rm.  
Single -family housing starts remained roughly flat from 
June to November at level s only modestly above those  
reported  earlier in the year.  In the much smaller mult i-
family sector, where tight credit conditions persisted and vacancies stayed elevated, the average pace of starts in October and November decreased somewhat from the already very low rate in the third quarter.  In co n-
trast, sales of existing single -family homes increased 
significantly again in October.  Sales of  new homes also 
rose in October after two months of little change.  With sales continuing to outpace construction, the i n-
ventory of unsold new homes declined to  its lowest 
level in three years.  The recent increases in sales likely reflected  improved fundamentals :  The average interest  
rate on 30 -year conforming fixed -rate mortgages d e-
clined to less than 5 percent , and surveys suggested that 
households now expected home prices to be fairly st a-
ble over the next year.  Although some house price 
Minutes of the Meeting of December 15-16, 2009
                                                                                                                                                                               Page 3
indexes declined a little in September and O ctober, 
they remained above the troughs reached last spring. 
Real spending on equipment and software was esti-
mated to have risen slightly in the third quarter after 
falling sharply for more than a year.  Increased outlays 
for transportation equipment and high -tech goods a c-
counted for the stabilization.  Outside of those sectors, 
spending declined a bit further in the third quarter, a l-
though not as steeply as it had earlier in the year.  Shipments of transportation and high -tech equipment 
remained strong in October, but shipments of nond e-
fense capital goods excluding those categories declined, 
and new orders fell sharply across a range of products.  
Business purchases of motor vehicles rose significantly again in November.  Moreover, monthly surveys of busine ss conditions, sentiment, and capital spending 
plans pointed to a moderate rise in business spending going forward.  In contrast, conditions in the nonres i-
dential construction sector generally remained quite poor.  For instance, real outlays on structures outside 
of the drilling and mining sector plunged in the third 
quarter.  Also in the third quarter, vacancy rates on nonresidential properties rose further , and property 
prices continued to fall amid difficult financing cond i-
tions.  The book value of manuf acturing and trade i n-
ventories excluding motor vehicles and parts increased in October for the first time in more than a year, even as the ratio of such inventories to sales decline d fur-
ther.  Capital markets continued  to become somewhat 
more supportive of  business investment over the i n-
termeeting period.  In contrast, available data indicated that banks continued to raise spreads  on business loans . 
The U.S. international trade deficit w as somewhat wi d-
er in September and October than in previous months.  
Exports of goods and services increased sharply, and 
the gains were broadly distributed across most major 
categories of exports.  After surging in September, i m-
ports flattened out in October, although the slowing 
almost entirely reflected reduced oil purchas es.  Most 
other categories of imports, including automotive goods, industrial supplies other than oil and gold, co n-
sumer goods, and capital goods , posted solid increases 
in the past two months.  
The most recent data from the advanced foreign eco n-
omies sugge sted that they continue to emerge from 
their deep recessions.  Real gross domestic product (GDP ) rose in  the third quarter in  Japan, the euro area, 
and Canada, and the pace of contraction in the United Kingdom moderated substantially.  The limited data relating to the fourth quarter suggested that economic 
activity advanced in all of those economies.  Surveys of purchasing managers and indicators of business and consumer confidence  generally  improved further.  Data 
for October indicated that trade volumes continued to rise in each of these economies , retail sales increased in 
the United Kingdom and stopped declining in the euro area, housing starts climbed in Canada, and industrial production increased in Japan for the eighth consec u-
tive month.  Third -quarte r real GDP  growth  was su r-
prisingly strong in several emerging market economies, 
most notably Mexico and India.  In emerging Asia and in Latin America, indicators suggested that economic 
activity was expanding somewhat less rapidly, but still  
briskly , in the fourth quarter.  P rice pressures remained 
subdued  in most of the advanced foreign economies , 
although headline inflation generally moved up.  Head-
line inflation also increased  in emerging Asia, generally 
from low levels, but declined further in Latin Ame rica, 
likely in part because of the recent appreciation of sev-
eral Latin American currencies.  
In the United States, the latest data indicated that total 
consumer price inflation turned up in recent months, 
while core consumer price inflation remained subdu ed.  
The higher readings on headline consumer price infl a-
tion were the result of a rebound in energy prices.  
Core consumer prices increased modestly in October 
and were unchanged in November.  Median year -ahead 
inflation expectations in the Reuters/Univer sity of 
Michigan Survey of Consumers declined  in early D e-
cember, and the same survey’s measure of longer -term 
inflation expectations moved down to the lower end of the narrow range that prevailed over the previous few 
years.  Revised data showed solid inc reases in hourly 
compensation in the second and third quarters, along 
with quite  rapid productivity growth and a further de-
cline in unit labor costs.  Average hourly earnings of production and nonsupervisory workers increased 
modestly, on ave rage, in October and November.  
Staff Review of the Financial Situation  
Market participants largely anticipated the decisions by 
the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at the November meeting to keep the target range for the federal funds rate unchanged and to retain the “e x-
tended period” language in the accompanying state-ment.  However, market participants took note of the 
Committee’s explicit enumeration of the factors that 
were expected to continue to warrant this policy stance, 
and Eurodollar futures rates fell a bit on the release.  In contrast, the announcement that the Federal Reserve would purchase only about $175 billion of agency debt securities had not been generally anticipated.  Spreads on those securities widened a few basis points follo w-
Page 4                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee 
ing the release, bu t declined, on net, over the intermee t-
ing period.  Incoming economic data, while somewhat 
better than expected, seemed to have little net effect on interest rate expectations.  Indeed , the expected path of 
the federal funds rate shifted down somewhat over the intermeeting period.  Consistent with the decrease in short- term interest rates, yields on 2- year nominal off -
the-run Treasury securities declined  slightly , on net, 
over the intermeeting period.  In contrast, yields on nominal 10 -year Treasury securiti es edged  higher on  
balance.  Inflation compensation based on 5- year Tre a-
sury inflation -protected securities (TIPS) increased, 
apparently owing in part to an announcement by the Treasury of a smaller -than-expected amount of i s-
suance of TIPS next year.  Five -year inflation compe n-
sation five years ahead also rose, and was near the u p-
per end of its range  in recent years . 
Conditions in short -term funding markets were little 
changed over the intermeeting period.  Spreads be-tween London interbank offered rates (Libor) and 
overnight index swap (OIS) rates at one- and three -
month maturities were about flat; spreads at the six -
month maturity narrowed somewhat further but r e-
mained above pre -crisis levels.  Spreads on A2/P2 -
rated commercial paper (CP) and AA- rated asset -
backed CP remained near their lows  of the past two 
years.  Indicators of functioning in the market for nom-
inal Treasury securities —including trading volumes and 
liquidity premiums for the on-the-run 10 -year note —
were roughly stable.  Liquidity conditions  in the TIPS 
market showed further improvement.  Year -end pre s-
sures in short -term funding markets, including the CP 
and bank funding markets, remained  modest.  H owev-
er, high demand for Treasury bills maturing just past 
December 31 drove  yields on such issu es to zero in 
some recent auctions.  
Over the intermeeting period, broad stock price inde x-
es increased further.  The rise in share prices likely r e-
flected the improvement in the economic outlook and 
strong third -quarter earnings, which led analysts to 
mark up their estimates of future earnings.  The gains 
were widespread across industry sectors.  However, financial stocks significantly underperformed the ma r-
ket, as investors continued to express concerns about 
the future profitability of the banking industry .  Op-
tion-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index declined.  
The spread between an estimate of the expected real 
return on equity over the next 10 years and an estimate of the real 10 -year Treasury yield —a rough gauge of 
the equity risk premium —remained ab out unchanged 
at a relatively high level.  Yields on investment - and speculative -grade corporate bonds fell a little more than 
those on comparable -maturity nominal Treasury secur i-
ties, leaving their spreads somewhat narrower.  Bid -
asked spreads for corpora te bonds —a measure of the 
liquidity of such instruments —were about unchanged .  
Prices and bid -asked spreads in the secondary market 
for leveraged loans also were stable over the intermee t-
ing period.  Spreads on credit default swaps (CDS) for large bank holding companies narrowed a bit.  
Debt of the private domestic nonfinancial sector a p-
peared to be declining again in the fourth quarter, as estimates suggested a further drop in household debt 
and a tick down in nonfinancial business debt.  Con-sumer credit co ntracted for the ninth consecutive 
month in October, reflecting a steep decline in revol v-
ing credit that offset a small increase in nonrevolving credit.  Issuance of consumer credit asset -backed secu r-
ities rebounded in November from its subdued pace in October.  Moreover, with support from the TALF, the 
first CMBS issue in nearly 18 months came to market.  
A few other CMBS deals were subsequently completed 
without support from the TALF.  Business debt was held down in November by another drop in bank loans,  as well as a decrease in CP outstanding, though 
the latter was concentrated among a few large firms.  In contrast, gross issuance of investment- and speculative -
grade bonds was robust in November.  The federal government continued to issue debt at a brisk  pace, and 
gross issuance of state and local government debt r e-
mained strong in November.  
Commercial bank credit decreased further in Nove m-
ber, although the pace of decline slowed relative to r e-
cent months.  Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans continued to drop, likely reflecting weak demand and a 
continued tightening of credit terms by banks.  The Survey of Terms of Business Lending conducted in 
November indicated that the average C&I loan rate 
spread over comparable -maturity market instruments 
rose for the fifth consecutive survey.  The runoff in 
commercial real estate loans continued, consistent with the further weakening of fundamentals in that sector.  Bank loans to households rose, reflecting a slowdown in loan sales to the housing -related government -
sponsored enterprises  that resulted in a modest increase 
in banks’ on- balance- sheet holdings of closed -end res i-
dential mortgages in November.  However, home equ i-
ty loans and consumer loans fell again.  According to third-quarter Call Report data, unused l oan commi t-
ments shrank for the seventh consecutive quarter, 
though the rate of decline slowed, especially for co m-
mitments to lend to businesses.  The aggregate profita-
Minutes of the Meeting of December 15-16, 2009
                                                                                                                                                                               Page 5
bility of the banking sector turned  positive in the third 
quarter, but most of the increase was due to strong 
earnings at a few large institutions.  Credit quality ap-peared to worsen as delinquency and charge -off rates 
increased further for most major loan categories.  Banks’ regulatory capital ratios increased again as banks continued to rais e equity and shrink their balance 
sheets.  
M2 expanded at a moderate rate in November.  As was  
the case in recent months, liquid deposits grew rapidly, while small time deposits and retail money market m u-
tual funds contract ed, albeit at slightly slower paces.  
Currency declined somewhat in November as foreign 
demand for U.S. banknotes a ppeared to  ebb, consistent 
with the continued stabilization in most global financial markets . 
Broad stock price indexes in major advanced foreign economies rose, although gene rally somewhat less than 
those in the United States.  Stock price indexes in ma-jor emerging markets increased as well, particularly in 
Brazil and Mexico, amid generally rising commodity 
prices and a better -than-expected Mexican GDP r e-
port; Chinese stock pr ices also increased strongly.  
Long -term government bond yields declined in most 
advanced foreign economies, but increased in the Uni t-
ed Kingdom.  The dollar depreciated over much of the intermeeting period, but then reversed course following 
the release of better -than-expected U.S. data on e m-
ployment and retail sales for November.  On balance, the dollar ended the period up slightly against the major foreign currencies and down a little relative to the cu r-
rencies of other important trading partners.  
Concer ns about the potential for default by some sov -
ereign borrowers rose over the intermeeting period.  
News that the Dubai government had requested a standstill on debts owed by Dubai World, a gover n-
ment- owned corporation, temporarily roiled some f i-
nancial ma rkets.  However, those pressures eased as 
investors concluded that Dubai World’s difficulties were likely to be isolated.  Subsequently, the sovereign debt rating for Greece was lowered amid long -standing 
concerns over its public finances and a widening of  its 
sovereign CDS spreads.  
Although the central banks of the major foreign indu s-
trial economies kept policy rates on hold, the Bank of England expanded its asset purchase program and the Bank of Japan announced a new secured lending facil i-
ty.  In contrast, the European Central Bank took some initial steps toward scaling back emergency lending.  It announced that the one -year refinancing operation in December would be its last and that the cost of the funds provided would float with interest rates set in future refinancing operations rather than being fixed as 
in previous such operations.  
Staff Economic Outlook  
In the forecast prepared for the December FOMC meeting, the staff raised its projection for average real GDP growth in the second half of 2009 somewhat, and it also modestly increased its forecast for economic growth in 2010 and 2011.  Better -than-expected data 
on employment, consumer spending, home sales, and industrial production received during the intermeeting 
period pointed to a somewhat stronger increase in real 
GDP in the current quarter than had previously been 
projected .  In addition, the positive signal from the i n-
coming data, along with the sizable upward revisions to household income in earlier quarters  and more suppo r-
tive financial market c onditions , led to small upward 
adjustments to projected growth in real GDP over the rest of the forecast period .  The staff again anticipated 
that the recovery would strengthen in 2010 and 2011, supported by further improvement in financial cond i-
tions and household balance sheets, continued recovery in the housing sector, growing household and business 
confidence, and accommodative monetary policy , even 
as the impetus to real activity from fiscal policy dim i-
nished.  However, the projected pace of real outpu t 
growth in 2010 and 2011 was expected to exceed th at 
of potential output by only enough to produce a very 
gradual reduction in economic slack.  
The staff forecast for inflation was nearly unchanged .  
The staff interpreted  the increases in prices of energy 
and nonmarket services  that recently boosted consumer 
price inflation as  largely transitory.  Although the pro-
jected degree of slack in resource utilization  over the 
next two years  was a little lower than shown in the pr e-
vious staff forecast , it was still quite substantial.  Thus, 
the staff continued to project that core inflation would slow somewhat from its current pace over the next two years.  Moreover, the staff expected that headline co n-
sumer price inflation would decline to about the same rate as co re inflation in 2010 and 2011.  
Participants’ Views on Current Conditions and the Economic Outlook  
In the ir discussion of the economic situation and ou t-
look, meeting participants  agreed that the incoming 
data and information received from business contacts suggested that economic growth was strengthening in 
the fourth quarter , that firms were reducing payrolls at 
a less rapid pace,  and that downside risks to the ou t-
look for economic growth had diminished a bit further .  
Page 6                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee 
Although some of the recent data had be en better than 
anticipated, m ost participants saw the incoming infor-
mation as broadly in line with the projections for mod-
erate growth and subdued inflation in 2010 that they 
had submitted just before the Committee’s November 
3-4 meeting; accordingly, thei r views on the economic 
outlook had not changed appreciably.   Participants ex-
pected the economic recovery to continue , but, consi s-
tent with experience following previous financial crises, 
most anticipated that the pickup in output and e m-
ployment growth would be rather slow  relative to  past 
recoveries  from deep recessions .  A moderate pace of 
expansion would imply slow improvement in the labor market next year, with unemployment declining only gradually.  Participants agreed that underlying  inflation 
currently was subdued and was likely to remain so for 
some time.  Some noted the risk that, over the next 
couple of years , inflation could edge further below the 
rates they judged most consistent with the Federal R e-
serve’s dual mandate for maximum employment and 
price stability ; other s saw inflation risks as tilted toward 
the upside in the medium term.   
A number of factors were expected to support near -
term expansion in economic activity .  Consumer 
spending appeared to be on a  moderately rising trend,  
reflecting gains in after-tax income and wealth this year.  
Recent upward revisions to official estimates of the 
level of household income in recent quarters gave par-ticipants somewhat greater confidence that consumer 
spending would continue to expand.   The housing se c-
tor showed continuing signs of improvement, though  
housing starts had leveled out after increasing earlier in 
the year and activity remained quite low .  Businesses  
seemed to be reducing the pace of inventory reduc-
tions .  The outlook for growth abroad had improved 
since earlier in the year, auguring well for U.S. exports .  
In addition, financial market conditions  generally had 
become more supportive of economic growth.  While these developments were positive, participants  noted 
several factors that likely would continue  to restrain the 
expansion in economic activity.  Business contacts 
again emphasize d they would be cautious in adding to 
payrolls  and capital spending , even as demand for their 
products increase s.  Conditions in the commercial real 
estate  (CRE ) sector were still deteriorating .  Bank credit 
had contract ed further , and  with many banks facing  
continuing loan losses , tight bank credit could continue 
to weigh on the spending of some households and 
businesses .  Some participants remained  concerned 
about the economy ’s ability to generate a self -sustaining 
recovery without government support.   In particular, they noted the risk that improvements in the housing sector might be undercut  next year as the Federal R e-
serve’s purchases of MBS wind down , the homebuyer 
tax credits expire , and foreclosures and distress sales 
continue .  Though the near -term outlook remains un-
certain , participants generally thought the most likely 
outcome was that economic growth would gradually  
strengthen over the next two years as  financial condi-
tions improved further, leading to more -substantial 
increases in resource utilization.  
Financial market condition s were generally regarded as 
having become more supportive of continued econo m-
ic recovery  during the intermeeting period :  E quity 
prices rose further , private credit spreads narrowed 
somewhat, and financial markets generally continu ed to 
function  significantly better than early in the year.  Pa r-
ticipants noted, however, that securitization markets were still substantially impaired .  In general, U.S. asset 
values d id not seem out of line with improving fund a-
mentals.  While investors evidently ha d become less 
cautious and more willing to bear risk, they appear ed to 
be discriminating among risky assets .  Bank s were rai s-
ing new capital  and in some cases paying back funds  
received from the Troubled Asset Relief Program .  
Bank  loans , however , continued to contract sharply in 
all categories, reflecting lack of demand, deterioration  
in potential borrowers’ credit quality, uncertainty about 
the economic outlook, and banks’ concerns about their 
own capital positions .  With rising levels of nonpe r-
forming loans expected to be a continuing source of 
stress, and with many regional and small banks vulne r-
able to the deteriorating performance of CRE loans, 
bank  lending terms and standards were seen as likely to 
remain tight.  Participants again noted the contrast  be-
tween large and small firms’ access to financing .  Large 
firms that can issue debt in the  markets appeared to 
have relatively little difficulty obtaining credit.  In co n-
trast, smaller firms, which tend to be more dependent on commercial banks for financing, reportedly faced substantial constraints in gaining  access to credit.  
While survey evidence suggested that small businesses 
considered weak demand to be  a larger problem than 
access to credit , participants saw l imited credit availabil-
ity as a potential constraint on future investment and 
hiring by small businesses, which normally are a signifi-
cant source of employment growth in recoveries . 
The weakness in labor markets continued to be an
  im-
portant concern to meeting participants, who generally  
expected unemployment to remain  elevated for quite 
some time.   The unemployment rate was not the only 
indicator pointing to substantial slack in lab or markets :  
Minutes of the Meeting of December 15-16, 2009
                                                                                                                                                                               Page 7
The employment- to-population ratio ha d fallen to a 25 -
year low, and aggregate hours of production workers 
had dropped more than during the 1981 -82 recession.  
Although the November employment report was con-
siderably better than anticipated, s everal participants 
observed that more than one good report would be 
needed to provide convincing evidence of recovery in the labor market.   Participants also noted that the slow-
ing pace of employment declines  mainly reflected a 
diminished pace of layoffs ; few firms were hiring.  
Moreover,  the unusually large fraction of those individ-
uals with jobs who were working part time for ec o-
nomic reasons , as well as  the uncommonly  low level of 
the average workweek , pointed to only a gradual de-
cline in unemployment as  the economic recovery pr o-
ceeded.  Indeed, many business contacts again reported that they would be cautious in their hiring , saying they 
expected to meet any near-term increase in demand by 
raising their existing employees’ hours and boosting productivity , thus delaying the need to add employees .  
The necessity of reallocating  labor across sectors as the 
recovery proceeds, as well as the loss of skills caused by 
high levels of long -term unemployment and permanent 
separations, also could limit the pace of e mployment  
gains .  Nonetheless, the reported rise  in employment of 
temporary workers  in recent months could presage a 
broader increase in job growth a nd thus was a welcome 
development. 
The prognosis  for labor markets remained an impor-
tant factor in the outl ook for consumer spending.  Re-
cent data on household expenditures  were encouraging.  
Retail sales  increased, spurred by price discount ing.  
The Bureau of Economic Analysis revised up its est i-
mates of the level of real disposable income —and thus 
of the pers onal saving rate—in the second and third 
quarters of this year .  Those revisions, along with r e-
cent gains in equity prices, suggested a smaller prob a-
bility that households would reduce spending to rebuild 
their savings more rapidly.   However, uncertain job  
prospects, modest  growth in real incomes , tight credit, 
and wealth levels that remained relatively low despite 
this year’s  rise in equity prices and stabilization in house 
prices were seen as likely to weigh on consumer conf i-
dence and the growth of consumer spending for some 
time to come.  Anecdotal evidence on consumer 
spending in this year’s holiday season was mixed.  
Participants noted that firms had made substantial 
progress in reducing inventories  toward desired levels 
and were  cutting stocks  at a slow er pace than earlier in 
the year.  T his adjustment likely was making an impor-
tant contribution to economic growth in the fourth quarter , and participants expected that it would do so 
into 2010 as well.   The combination of rising consumer 
spending, slower destocking , and rising goods produ c-
tion was reflected in reports from major transportation 
companies  that shipping volumes were up.  
Investment in equipment and software  appeared to 
have stabilized, and recent data on new orders conti n-
ued to point to some  pickup next year.  Even so , many 
participants expressed the view that cautious business sentiment, together with low industrial utilization rates, was likely to keep new capital spending subdued until firms became more confident about the durability of 
incre ases in demand.   Many also noted widespread re-
ports from business contacts that uncertaint ies about 
health -care, tax, and environmental policies  were ad d-
ing to businesses ’ reluctance to commit to higher capi-
tal spending.  CRE activity continued to fall mar kedly 
in most parts of the country as a result of deteriorating 
fundamentals, including declining occupancy and rental rates, and very tight credit conditions.  Prospects for 
nonresidential construction remained  weak.  
In the residential real estate sector,  home sales and co n-
struction had risen relative to the very low levels r e-
ported in the spring ; moreover, house prices appeared 
to be stabilizing and in some areas had reportedly 
moved higher.  Generally, the outlook was for gains in 
housing activity to con tinue.  However, some partic i-
pants still viewed the improved outlook as quite tent a-
tive and again pointed to potential sources of softness , 
including the termination next year of the temporary 
tax credit s for homebuyers and the downward pressure 
that furth er increases in foreclosures c ould put on 
house prices.  Moreover, mortgage markets could come under pressure as the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS purchases wind down.  
Stronger foreign economic activity, especially in the 
emerging market economies in Asia, as well as the pa r-
tial reversal this year of the dollar’s appreciation during 
the latter part of 2008, was providing further support to U.S. exports, including agricultural exports.   Further 
improvements in foreign economies would likely buoy U.S. exports going forward, but import growth would 
also strengthen as the recovery took hold in the United States.   Participants noted that any tendency for dollar 
depreciation to put significant upward pressure on i n-
flation would bear close watching.  
Most participants anticipated that substantial slack in 
labor and product markets , along with well -anchored 
inflation expectations, would keep inflation subdued  in 
the near term, al though they had differing views as to 
Page 8                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee 
the relative importance of those two factors .  The de -
celeration s in wages and unit labor costs this year , and 
the accompanying deceleration in marginal costs,  were 
cited as factors putting downward pressure on inflation.   
Moreover, anecdotal evidence suggested that most 
firms had little ability to raise the ir prices in the current 
economic environment.   Some participants noted , 
however, that rising  prices of oil and other commod i-
ties, along with  increases in import prices, could boost 
inflation pressures  going forward .  Overall, many pa r-
ticipants viewed the risks to their inflation outlooks as 
being roughly balanced.  Some saw inflation  risks as 
tilted to the downside , reflecting the quite elevated level 
of economic slack and the possibility that inflation ex-pectations could begin to decline in response to th e low 
level of actual inflation.  But others felt that inflation risks were tilted to the upside , particularly in the me-
dium  term, because of the possibility that inflation e x-
pectations could rise as a result of the public’s concerns about extraordinary mo netary policy stimulus and large 
federal budget deficits.  Moreover, a few participants 
noted that banks might seek, as the economy improves,  
to reduce their excess reserves quickly and substantially by purchasing securities or by easing credit standards and expanding their lending.  A rapid shift , if not offset 
by Federal Reserve actions , could give excessive impe-
tus to spending and potentially result in expected and 
actual inflation  higher than would be consistent with 
price stability .  To keep inflation expectations an -
chored, all participants agreed that monetary policy 
would  need to be responsive to any significant i m-
provement or worsening in the economic outlook and that the Federal Reserve would  need to continue to 
clearly communicate its ability and intent to begin 
withdrawing monetary policy accommodation at the appropriate time and pace.  
In the Committee’s discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, all members agreed that no changes 
to the Committee’s large-scale asset purchase pr o-
grams, or  to its target range  for the federal funds rate , 
were warranted at this meeting, inasmuch as the ec o-
nomic outlook had changed little since the November meeting.  Accordingly , the Committee affirmed its i n-
tention to purchase $1.25 trillion of agency MBS and  
about $175 billion of agency debt by the end of the first quarter of 2010 and to gradually slow the pace of these purchases to promote a smooth transition in markets.  The Committee emphasized  that it would continue to 
evaluate the timing and overall amounts of its purcha s-
es of securities in light of the evolving economic ou t-
look and conditions in financial markets.  A few  mem-bers noted that resource slack was expected to diminish only slowly and observed that it might become desir a-
ble at some point in the  future to provide more policy 
stimulus by expanding the planned scale of the Com-
mittee’s large -scale asset purchases and continuing 
them beyond the first quarter, especially if the outlook 
for economic growth were to weaken or if mortgage 
market functioni ng were to deteriorate.  One member  
thought that the improvement in financial market con-
ditions and the economic outlook suggested that the quantity of planned asset purchases could be scaled back, and that it might become appropriate to begin 
reducing the Federal Reserve’s holdings of longer -term 
assets if the recovery gains strength over time.  The Committee maintained the federal funds target range at 0 to ¼ percent and, based on the outlook for a slow economic recovery, decided to reiterate its anticipa tion 
that economic conditions, including low levels of r e-
source utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, were likely to warrant exceptio n-
ally low rates for an extended period.  Although  mem-
bers generally saw little risk tha t maintaining very low 
short- term interest rates could raise inflat ion expect a-
tions  or create instability in asset markets, they noted 
that it was important to remain alert to these risks.  All 
agreed that the path of short- term rates going forward 
would d epend on the evolution of the economic ou t-
look. 
Committee  members  and Board members agreed that 
there had been substantial  improvements in the func-
tioning of financial markets; accordingly  they agreed 
that the statement to be released following the meeting  
should indicate an anticipation that most of the Federal 
Reserve’s special liquidity facilities will expire on Fe b-
ruary 1, 2010; these facilities include the Asset -Backed 
Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liqui d-
ity Facility, the Commercial Paper Funding Facility, the 
Primary Dealer Credit Facility, and the Term Securities Lending Facility.  Committee members also agreed to 
announce that the Federal Reserve will be working with its central bank counterparties to close its temporary liquidity swap ar rangements by February 1.  In add i-
tion, the statement  would announce an expectation that 
amounts provided under the Term Auction Facility will 
continue to be scaled back in early 2010 , and that t he 
anticipated expiration dates for the Term Asset- Backed 
Securities Loan Facility remain ed June 30, 2010, for 
loans backed by new -issue CMBS , and March 31, 2010, 
for loans backed by all other types of collateral.  Mem-
bers emphasized that they were prepared to modify 
these plans  if necessary to support financial sta bility 
Minutes of the Meeting of December 15-16, 2009
                                                                                                                                                                               Page 9
and economic growth.   In that context, several mem-
bers noted that the TALF was still providing important 
support for securitization markets, particularly the CMBS market, and that improvements in the function-
ing of securitization markets were laggin g behind those 
in other financial markets.  
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to ex-ecute transactions in the System Account in accordance  
with the following domestic policy directive:  
“The Federal Open Market Committee seeks 
monetary and financial conditions that will 
foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output.  To further its long -run 
objectives, the Committee seeks co nditions 
in reserve markets  consistent with federal 
funds trading in a range from 0 to ¼ percent.  The Committee directs the Desk to purchase agency debt and agency MBS during the in-
termeeting period with the aim of providing 
support to private credit markets and eco-nomic activity.  The timing and pace of these purchases should depend on conditions in the markets for such securities and on a broader assessment of private credit market conditions.  The Desk is expected to execute purchases of about $175 billion in housing -
related agency debt and about $1.25 trillion of agency MBS by the end of the first quarter of 2010.  The Desk is expected to gradually slow the pace of these purchases as they near completion.  The Committee anticipates that outright purchas es of securities will cause the 
size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet to expand significantly in coming months.  The 
System Open Market Account Manager and 
the Secretary will keep the Committee i n-
formed of ongoing developments regarding the System’s balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee’s objectives of maximum employment and price stability.”  
The vote encompassed approval of the statement be-
low to be released at 2:15 p.m.:  
“Information received since the Federal 
Open Market Committee met in November 
suggests that economic activity has contin-ued to pick up and that the deterioration in the labor market is abating.  The housing sector has shown some signs of improv e-
ment over recent months.  Household spending appears to be expanding at a mod-erate rate, though it remains constrained by a 
weak labor market, modest income growth, 
lower housing wealth, and tight credit.  Bus i-
nesses are still cutting back on fixed inves t-
ment, though at a slower pace, and remain reluctant to add to payrolls; they continue to make progress in bringing inventory stocks into better alignment with sales.  Financial market conditions have become more su p-
portive of economic growth.  Although ec o-
nomic activity is likely to remain weak for a time, the  Committee anticipates that policy 
actions to stabilize financial markets and in-stitutions, fiscal and monetary stimulus, and market forces will contribute to a strengthe n-
ing of economic growth and a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization i n a 
context of price stability.  
With substantial resource slack likely to co n-
tinue to dampen cost pressures and with longer -term inflation expectations stable, the 
Committee expects that inflation wil l remain 
subdued for some time.  
The Committee will maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ 
percent and continues to anticipate that ec o-
nomic conditions, including low rates of r e-
source utilization, subdued inflation trends, 
and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the fede r-
al funds rate for an extended period.  To provide support to mortgage lending and housing markets and to improve overall 
conditions in private credit markets, the Fe d-
eral Reserve is in the process of purchasing 
$1.25 trillion of agency mortgage -backed s e-
curities and about $175 billion of agency debt.  In order to promote a smooth trans i-
tion in markets, the Committee is gradually slowing the pace of these purchases, and it anticipates that these transactions will be e x-
ecuted by the end of the first quarter of 2010.  The Committee will continue to ev a-
luate the timing and overall amounts of its purchases of securities in light of the evol v-
ing economic outlook and c onditions in f i-
nancial markets.  
Page 10                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee 
In light of ongoing improvements in the 
functioning of financial markets, the Com-
mittee and the Board of Governors anti c-
ipate that most of the Federal Reserve’s sp e-
cial liquidity facilities will expire on February 1, 2010, consistent with the Federal R e-
serve’s announcement of June 25, 2009.  
These facilities include the Asset -Backed 
Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, the Commercial P a-
per Funding Facility, the Primary Dealer Credit Facility, and the Term Securities 
Lending Facility.  The Federal Reserve will 
also be working with its central bank cou n-
terparties to close its temporary liquidity 
swap arrangements by February 1.  The Fe d-
eral Reserve expects that amounts provided under the Term Auction Facility will contin-ue to be scaled back in early 2010.  The a n-
ticipated expiration dates for the Term A s-
set-Backed Securities Loan Facility remain 
set at June 30, 2010, for loans backed by new-issue commercial mortgage -backed s e-
curities and March 31, 2010, for loans backed by all other types of collateral.  The Federal Reser ve is prepared to modify these 
plans if necessary to support financial stabil i-
ty and economic growth.”  
Voting for this action:  Messrs. Bernanke and Dudley, 
Ms. Duke, Messrs. Evans, Kohn, Lacker, Lockhart, 
Tarullo, and Warsh, and Ms. Yellen.  
Voting against this action:   None.  
Following the Committee’s policy decision, staff gave several presentations on the key determinants of infl a-
tion dynamics.  Theoretical and empirical research indi-cates that inflation can respond to deviations of  eco-
nomic activity from  its longer -run sustainable path.  
However, in some theoretical frameworks, the conne c-
tion between resource slack and inflation depends on the nature of the shock and its impact on marginal costs and markups .  Moreover, estimates of the magni-
tude of slack and its effect on inflation are sensitive to the details of the analytical framework and the statisti c-
al methodology used in each study.  While theory su g-
gests that the degree of slack prevailing in foreign economies could affect domestic inflation, empiri cal 
evidence on the importance of such an effect was mixed.  Evidence suggested that sizable shifts in the longer -run inflation expectations of households and 
firms had influenced the evolution of inflation over previous decades; in contrast, the anchoring of inflation expectations in recent years likely had damped some-
what the response of actual inflation to the recent ec o-
nomic downturn and to fluctuations in the prices of energy and other commodities.  In discussing these 
issues, participants noted that t hey bear in mind the 
shocks hitting the economy and regularly monitor more 
than one measure of resource slack as they assess the outlook for economic activity and inflation.  They also noted the importance of formulating monetary policy in ways that would work well across a range of possible economic structures rather than relying on any one ana-lytical framework.  Finally, they underscored the impo r-
tance of keeping longer -run inflation expectations fir m-
ly anchored to help achieve the Federal Reserve’s dual mandate for maximum employment and price stability.  
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday -Wednesday, January 26 -27, 
2010.  The meeting adjourned at 1:00 p.m. on Dece m-
ber 16, 2009.  
Notation Votes  
By notation vote completed on November 23, 2009, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on November 3 -4, 2009.  
By notation vote completed on November 24, 2009, the Committee unanimously approved the following resolution:  
“The Federal Open Marke t Committee a u-
thorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York to conduct reverse repo transactions 
involving U.S. Government securities, and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest 
by, any agency of the Uni ted States, for the 
purpose of helping to ensure the readiness of the Federal Reserve’s tools for absorbing bank reserves. The reverse repo transactions 
authorized in this resolution shall have terms 
to maturity of 20 business days or less and the total amount of all transactions outstand-ing at a given time shall be $5 billion or less.”  
   
_____________________________ 
Brian F. Madigan  
Secretary  
Minutes of the Meeting of December 15-16, 2009
                                                                                                                                                                               Page 11