Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee 
March 18, 2008 
 
A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tues-
day, March 18, 2008 at 8:30 a.m.  
PRESENT:  
Mr. Bernanke, Chairman 
Mr. Geithner, Vice Chairman Mr. Fisher 
Mr. Kohn 
Mr. Kroszner Mr. Mishkin Ms. Pianalto  
Mr. Plosser 
Mr. Stern Mr. Warsh  
Messrs. Evans, Lacker, and Lockhart, and Ms. 
Yellen, Alternate Members of the Federal 
Open Market Committee 
 
Messrs. Hoenig and Roseng ren, Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City and 
Boston, respectively 
 
Mr. Sapenaro, First Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis 
 
Mr. Madigan, Secretary and Economist 
Ms. Danker, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary Ms. Smith, Assistant Secretary Mr. Alvarez, General Counsel 
Mr. Ashton, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sheets, Economist  Mr. Stockton, Economist  
Messrs. Connors, English, and Kamin, Ms. Mester, 
Messrs. Rolnick, Rosenblum, Slifman, Snider-
man, and Wilcox, Associate Economists 
 
Mr. Dudley, Manager, System Open Market Ac-
count 
 
Mr. Struckmeyer,
 Deputy Staff Director, Office of 
Staff Director for Management, Board of Governors 
 Mr. Parkinson,
  Deputy Director, Division of Re-
search and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 Ms. Bailey, Deputy Director, Division of Banking 
Supervision and Regulation, Board of Gover-
nors 
 
Mr. Clouse, Deputy Director, Division of Mone-
tary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 Ms. Liang and Messrs. Reifschneider and Wascher, 
Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 Mr. Gagnon, Visiting Associate Director, Division 
of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
  
Mr. Blanchard, Assistant to the Board, Office of 
Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Mr. Carpenter, Assistant Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 Mr. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
 Mr. Luecke, Section Chief, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Ms. Low, Open Market Secretariat Specialist, Divi-
sion of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Mr. Judd, Executive Vice President, Federal Re-
serve Bank of San Francisco 
 
Messrs. Altig, Rasche, Sellon, and Sullivan, Senior 
Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of At-
lanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Chicago, re-
spectively 
 
Mr. Olivei, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston 
 Mr. Pesenti, Assistant Vice President, Federal Re-
serve Bank of New York 
 Mr. Hetzel, Senior Economist, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond 
                                                                                                                                                                                Page 1
The Manager of the System Open Market Account 
reported on recent developments in foreign exchange 
markets.  There were no open market operations in 
foreign currencies for the System’s account in the pe-riod since the previous meeting.  The Manager also reported on developments in domestic financial mar-
kets and on System open market operations in gov-
ernment securities and federal agency obligations dur-ing the period since the previous meeting.  By unani-mous vote, the Committee ratified these transactions. 
The information reviewed at the March meeting indi-
cated that economic activity had continued to deceler-ate in recent months.  The contraction in homebuilding intensified, consumer spending appeared to be weaken-
ing, and survey measures of both consumer and busi-
ness sentiment were at depressed levels.  Industrial production fell in February, and private payroll em-ployment posted a third consecutive monthly decline.  
After having increased in recent months through Janu-
ary, both headline and core inflation as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) dropped noticeably in February.  In early March, however, prices of oil and 
other commodities rose sharply. 
Labor demand softened markedly in recent months.  
The decline in private payroll employment that began last December steepened through February.  Although 
employment by firms in the nonbusiness services sec-
tor and in state and local governments continued to rise, declines elsewhere were  widespread.  Losses were 
greatest in the manufacturing, construction, and retail 
trade sectors.  Aggregate hours of private production or 
nonsupervisory workers fell slightly in the first two months of the year.  The unemployment rate edged down to 4.8 percent in Febr uary, but was still up from 
the 4.5 percent rate of a year earlier.  The labor force participation rate declined in February. 
Industrial production declined in February after edging 
up slightly in the previous two months.  The output of 
utilities dropped back after a weather-related surge in 
January, while mining output fell somewhat in the first 
two months of the year on average.  Manufacturing production edged down after having flattened out in 
January.  The motor vehicle and construction-related 
industries continued to hold  down overall manufactur-
ing output even as high-tech production posted moder-ate increases.  The factory utilization rate edged down 
in February to a level noticeably below its recent high in the third quarter of 2007. Real consumer spending appeared to have stalled in recent months.  Real outlays for nondurable and dura-
ble consumer goods, including automobiles, were esti-
mated to have declined, on average, in January and February.  Real disposable personal income was un-changed in the fourth quart er, held down by higher 
food and energy prices, and moved up only slightly in January.  Further declines in house prices led to a no-ticeable decrease in the ratio of household wealth to disposable income in the fourth quarter.  The down-
turn in equity prices since December further reduced 
household wealth in the first quarter.  Readings on consumer sentiment dropped sharply in February from already low levels, and the Reuters/University of 
Michigan survey remained at a depressed level in early 
March. 
The contraction in residential construction continued 
into early 2008.  Single-family housing starts fell in both 
January and February.  After having dropped especially 
sharply in December, multifamily housing starts re-bounded somewhat in the first two months of the year.  New home sales declined again in January, thereby 
pushing inventories of unsold homes to even higher 
levels relative to sales.  Sales of existing homes held roughly steady in January, and the index of pending sales agreements in that month was consistent with flat 
sales in February and March.  Overall, demand for 
housing continued to be restrained by tight financing conditions for jumbo and nonprime mortgages. 
Real spending on equipment and software rose at a 
sluggish rate in the fourth quarter.  In January, orders 
and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft were above their fourth-quarter levels.  How-ever, the overall outlook for capital spending in the first 
quarter was weak in light of the deterioration in surveys 
of business conditions and attitudes and the worsening situation in markets for business finance.  On the heels of robust gains during most of last year, nominal 
spending on nonresidential structures decelerated in 
December and posted an outright decline in January.  Although spending in this sector is often volatile, the recent deceleration was consistent with mounting indi-
cations of slowing demand for nonresidential buildings 
and tightening credit conditions. 
Real investment in nonfarm inventories excluding mo-
tor vehicles remained at a steady pace in the fourth 
quarter of 2007, but motor vehicle inventories fell 
sharply.  After declining in November, the ratio of manufacturing and trade book-value inventories (ex-
Page 2                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee
cluding motor vehicles) to sa les ticked up in December 
and held steady in January, but this ratio remained well 
below its average value in 2007. 
The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed substan-
tially in December and was about unchanged in Janu-ary.  Exports rose sharply in both months, while im-
ports dipped in December before recovering in Janu-
ary.  Increases in exports were broadly based except for automotive exports, which dropped sharply in Decem-ber and remained low in January.  Imports of services 
were up moderately.  Oil imports soared, reflecting in-
creases in both prices and volumes.  Most other catego-ries of imports dropped in December and January on net, with especially large de clines in imports of automo-
tive and consumer goods. 
In the major advanced foreign economies, the rate of 
growth of real gross domestic product (GDP) generally declined in the fourth quarter.  The source of the slow-
down varied substantially across economies.  In the 
euro area and in the United Kingdom, output was re-strained by a softening in domestic demand.  In con-
trast, Canadian domestic de mand continued to increase 
at a very strong pace, but because of an offsetting steep decline in net exports, real GDP rose only modestly.  Japan was the exception among the advanced foreign economies to the pattern of slower growth; real GDP 
there strengthened in the fourth quarter with higher 
domestic spending and continued streng th in exports.  
Japanese exports to the United States, however, de-clined.  Available first-quarter economic indicators for 
the advanced foreign economies were mixed, but, on 
balance, they pointed to slowing growth.  Real activity also appeared to have slowed a bit in emerging markets, though it continued to advance at a fairly strong rate.  
In emerging Asia, the pace of real GDP growth picked 
up in the fourth quarter in China an d South Korea, but 
it softened in most other co untries.  The rate of in-
crease in economic activity  slowed in Brazil, Mexico, 
and several other countries in Latin America in the fourth quarter, but remained generally strong. 
In the United States, the headline CPI continued to rise 
rapidly in January but was flat in February.  For those 
two months on average, the rate of headline inflation 
was down significantly from its elevated level in the fourth quarter of 2007, as re tail energy prices stopped 
rising and core inflation moderated a bit; these two 
factors more than offset an acceleration of food prices.  
However, the increase in world petroleum prices in early March pointed to a renewed burst of energy price inflation in the near term.  Available information, in-
cluding producer prices for February, suggested that 
prices of core personal consumption expenditures 
(PCE) moved up a bit more slowly than the core CPI in January and somewhat faster than the core CPI in February.  Household survey measures of expectations 
for year-ahead inflation jump ed in March to their high-
est levels in about two years ; in contrast, survey meas-
ures of longer-term inflation expectations were un-
changed or up slightly.  Av erage hourly earnings in-
creased at a somewhat slower rate in January and Feb-ruary than they had in November and December.  Over the twelve months that ended in February, this wage measure rose a bit more slowly than in the previ-
ous twelve months.  
At its January 30 meeting, the FOMC lowered its target 
for the federal funds rate 50 basis points, to 3 percent.  In addition, the Board of Governors approved a de-
crease of 50 basis points in the discount rate, to 
3½ percent.  The Committee’s statement noted that financial markets remained under considerable stress and that credit had tightened further for some busi-
nesses and households.  Moreover, incoming informa-
tion indicated a deepening of the housing contraction as well as some softening in labor markets.  The Com-mittee expected inflation to  moderate in coming quar-
ters but said that it would be necessary to continue to monitor inflation developments carefully.  The Com-mittee indicated that its action, combined with the pol-icy actions taken earlier, should help to promote mod-
erate growth over time and to mitigate the risks to eco-
nomic activity.  However, the Committee noted that downside risks to growth  remained.  The Committee 
stated that it would continue to assess the effects of 
financial and other developments on economic pros-
pects and would act in a timely manner as needed to address these risks . 
Over the intermeeting period, conditions in some 
short-term funding markets worsened.  Spreads in in-
terbank funding markets widened, as did spreads on 
lower-rated commercial paper.  Obtaining credit through repurchase agreements backed by agency and 
private-label mortgage-backed securities (MBS) also 
became more difficult amid reports of larger “haircuts” being applied by lenders and news that some market participants missed margin calls on positions as a result.  
Concerns over the health of financial guarantors caused 
dislocations in the markets for municipal securities, and the ratios of municipal bond yields to those on compa-rable-maturity Treasuries climbed to historically high 
Minutes of the Meeting of March 18, 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                Page 3
levels.  In longer-term corporate markets, yields on in-
vestment-grade and speculative-grade corporate bonds 
rose, pushing their spreads relative to Treasuries to the 
highest levels since 2002 or even  earlier in some cases.  
Nonetheless, gross bond i ssuance in January and Feb-
ruary remained solid for investment-grade firms. 
Commercial bank credit decelerated in January and February, damped by a redu ction in merger and acqui-
sition activity, weak business spending, fewer previ-ously committed loan deals coming onto banks’ books, 
and slower residential mort gage lending.  Commercial 
real estate lending at banks, however, continued to ad-
vance briskly in January and February, while the rise in consumer loans was moderate.  Over the intermeeting 
period, spreads on conforming and jumbo residential 
mortgages over comparable-maturity Treasury securi-ties jumped, and credit default swap premiums for the government-sponsored enterprises increased to record 
highs.  Issuance of conforming MBS continued to be 
strong, while credit availability for jumbo and non-prime mortgage borrowers remained tight.  Broad stock price indexes fell further over the intermeeting 
period on negative economic news as well as concerns 
about the outlook for many financial institutions. 
Similar stresses were again evident in the financial mar-
kets of major foreign econo mies.  However, economic 
news in these economies was generally less downbeat than in the United States, leading to expectations of 
greater monetary easing in the United States than else-where.  The trade-weighted foreign exchange value of 
the dollar against major currencies declined notably. 
M2 increased strongly in January and February, boosted 
primarily by heightened demands for the relative safety and liquidity of money market mutual funds.  The de-
cline in opportunity costs associated with monetary 
policy easing also supported rapid growth of liquid de-posits. 
In the two weeks prior to the March meeting, the Fed-
eral Reserve announced several measures to bolster 
liquidity and promote orderly functioning in financial markets.  On March 7, th e Federal Reserve announced 
that it would initiate a series of term repurchase trans-
actions that would facilitate funding of primary dealers’ 
assets and that the volume of lending through the Term Auction Facility (TAF) would be increased.  On March 11, the Federal Reserve, in coordination with 
other central banks, announced the expansion and ex-
tension of the reciprocal currency arrangements that were established in December as well as the creation of a Term Securities Lending Facility (TSLF) under which 
the Federal Reserve would lend Treasury securities to 
primary dealers for longer terms than in the existing program and based on a broader range of collateral.  On March 14, the Federal Reserve Board approved the 
temporary financing arrangement announced that 
morning by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and The Bear Stearns Companies Inc.  On March 16, the Federal Re-serve announced the creation of a lending facility to 
improve the ability of primar y dealers to provide fi-
nancing to participants in securitization markets.  In addition, the Federal Reserve lowered the primary credit rate, or discount rate, 25 basis points to 3.25 per-
cent, and extended the maximum maturity of primary 
credit loans to ninety days fr om thirty days.  It also ap-
proved the longer-term financing arrangement an-nounced that evening by JPMorgan Chase and Bear 
Stearns in conjunction with the acquisition of Bear 
Stearns by JPMorgan Chase. 
Over the intermeeting period, the expected path of 
monetary policy over the next year as measured by 
money market futures rates moved down sharply, 
largely in response to so fter-than-exp ected economic 
data releases and deteriorating financial market condi-tions.  The Committee’s action at the January 30 meet-
ing had been viewed by market  participants as the most 
likely outcome, but near-term futures rates declined a 
few basis points as investors had placed some probabil-ity on a smaller policy move.  Neither the subsequent 
release of the minutes of the meeting nor the March 7 
Federal Reserve announceme nts elicited significant 
market reaction.  The March 11 TSLF announcement was followed by a step-up in money market futures 
rates as liquidity concerns eased somewhat and market 
participants evidently concluded that less policy easing would be needed than previously anticipated.  How-ever, liquidity concerns reemerged subsequently, 
prompting a further drop in money market futures 
rates.  Consistent with the shift in the economic out-
look, the revision in policy expectations, and the reduc-tion in the target federal funds rate, yields on short- and 
medium-term nominal Treasury coupon securities de-
clined substantially after the January 30 FOMC meet-ing.  However, yields on long-term Treasuries fell much less than those on shorter-te rm instruments, and the 
yield curve steepened signific antly.  Inflation compen-
sation—the difference between yields on nominal Treasury securities and those on inflation-indexed is-sues—was little changed on  balance for shorter-term 
issues, but longer-term in flation compensation rose. 
Page 4                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee
In the forecast prepared for this meeting, the staff sub-
stantially revised down its projection for the pace of 
real GDP throughout 2008.  Although the available 
data on spending and production early in the first quar-ter were not materially weaker than the staff’s expecta-tions, many other indicators of real activity were more 
negative.  Payroll employment declined substantially; oil 
prices surged again, crimping real household incomes; and measures of consumer and business sentiment de-teriorated sharply.  Moreover, house prices fell by more 
than anticipated, and conditions in a broad range of 
debt markets became more restrictive.  The staff pro-jection showed a contraction of real GDP in the first half of 2008 followed by a slow rise in the second half.  
The recently enacted fiscal stimulus package was ex-
pected to boost real GDP in the second half of 2008, but that effect was projected to unwind in 2009.  The forecast showed real GDP rising at a rate somewhat 
above the growth rate of it s potential in  2009, in re-
sponse to the impetus from cumulative monetary pol-
icy easing, continued strength in net exports, a lessen-ing drag from high oil prices, and a relaxation of finan-
cial market strains.  Even with this pickup in growth in 
2009, resource utilization wa s anticipated to follow a 
lower trajectory than in the previous forecast. 
The forecast for core PCE price inflation over the first 
half of 2008 was raised in re sponse to elevated readings 
in recent months.  In addition, the forecast for headline 
PCE price inflation incorporated a much higher rate of increase for energy prices for the first half of the year; 
as a result, headline PCE price inflation was expected 
to substantially exceed core PCE price inflation in 2008.  By 2009, the forecasts for both the headline and 
core PCE price indexes showed inflation receding from 
its 2008 level, in line with the previous forecasts. 
In their discussion of the economic situation and out-
look, FOMC participants noted that prospects for both economic activity and near-term inflation had deterio-
rated in view of increasingly fragile financial markets 
and tighter credit conditions, rising prices for oil and other commodities, and the deepening contraction in the housing sector.  Home prices had declined more 
steeply than anticipated, and the weakening housing 
market, combined with a softening in labor markets, 
appeared to be weighing on consumer sentiment.  Businesses also were seen as becoming more pessimis-
tic and cautious, despite a strong foreign demand for 
U.S. goods.  Strains in fina ncial markets had increased, 
portending a possible further tightening in the availabil-ity of credit to households an d businesses.  Against this backdrop, many participants thought some contraction in economic activity in the first half of 2008 now ap-
peared likely.  The economy was expected to begin to 
recover in the second half of the year, supported by recent monetary policy easing and fiscal stimulus.  Ac-commodative monetary policy and a recovery in finan-
cial markets along with an abatement of the downdraft 
in housing activity were expected to help foster a fur-ther pickup in economic growth in 2009.  However, considerable uncertainty surrounded this forecast, and 
some participants expresse d concern that falling house 
prices and stresses in financ ial markets could lead to a 
more severe and protracted downturn in activity than 
currently anticipated.  Participants noted that recent 
readings on inflation had generally been elevated, that 
energy prices had risen sharply, and that some indica-tors of inflation expectations had risen.  Most partici-pants anticipated that a flattening of oil and other 
commodity prices and easing pressures on resources 
would contribute to some moderation in inflation pres-sures.  Nonetheless, uncertainties about the outlook for inflation had risen. 
Stresses in financial market s had intensified noticeably 
since the January meeting.  Several meeting participants 
noted that price discovery for mortgage-related finan-cial assets had become increasingly difficult in an envi-
ronment of declining house prices and considerable 
uncertainty as to the ultimate extent of such declines.  With the magnitude and distribution of losses on mort-gage assets quite unclear and many financial institutions 
experiencing significant balance sheet pressures, many lenders pulled back from risk taking—notably by in-creasing collateral margins on secured lending—and liquidity diminished in a number of financial markets.  
In these circumstances, many market participants were 
experiencing greater difficulties obtaining funding, and meeting participants regarded financial markets as un-usually fragile.  The new liquidity facilities recently in-
troduced by the Federal Reserve would probably be 
helpful in bolstering market  liquidity and promoting 
orderly market functioning, but even so, the ongoing strains were likely to raise the price and reduce the 
availability of credit to bu sinesses and households.   
Evidence that an adverse feedback loop was under way, 
in which a restriction in cr edit availability prompts a 
deterioration in the economic outlook that, in turn, 
spurs additional tightening in credit conditions, was 
discussed.  Several participants noted that the problems of declining asset values, cred it losses, and strained fi-
nancial market conditions could be quite persistent, 
restraining credit availability and thus economic activity 
Minutes of the Meeting of March 18, 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                Page 5
for a time and having the potential subsequently to de-
lay and damp economic recovery. 
Participants noted that the contraction in the housing 
sector had deepened and that considerable uncertainty surrounded the outlook for housing.  Although some stabilization in housing markets was likely needed to 
help underpin an economic recovery in coming quar-
ters, there was little indication that that process had yet begun.  Elevated rates of foreclosures and large inven-tories of unsold property were likely to depress home 
prices for some time.  Lower home prices would even-
tually buoy home buying, but in the meantime the prospect of continued price declines could lead poten-tial homebuyers to defer pu rchases for a time, further 
damping housing activity and adding to downward 
pressure on home values.  Pa rticipants noted that the 
trajectory of house prices was a major source of uncer-tainty in their economic outlook. 
Recent data and anecdotal reports from business con-
tacts suggested that consumer spending was decelerat-
ing noticeably, though it apparently had not yet actually declined substantially.  Participants noted that private 
payroll employment had fallen in February for the third 
consecutive month, and suggested that increasing con-cerns among workers about prospects for employment and income likely were holding down consumer out-
lays.  Rising energy prices were also damping growth in 
real incomes.  One participant reported that lenders were restricting draws on home equity lines, and the tightening of credit availability more generally was 
probably starting to constrain consumer spending.  
Also, the continued fall in hom e prices and declines in 
equity prices were weighing on household wealth, with a depressing effect on spending. 
The outlook for business spending had also dimmed 
since the time of the January meeting.  Anecdotal re-ports from many regions of the country pointed to a r e t r e n c h m e n t  i n  c a p i t a l  s p e n d i n g  i n  r e s p o n s e  t o  i n -
creased pessimism about economic prospects and 
heightened caution on the part of business managers.  The tightening supply of cred it was seen as exacerbat-
ing this softness in business outlays and contributing 
particularly to a pullback from nonresidential construc-
tion projects.   However, investment spending on agri-cultural equipment was repor ted to be quite strong, 
spurred by soaring crop prices.  Reports on inventories 
were mixed but, overall, inventories appeared to be 
roughly in balance with desired levels. In discussing the external sector of the economy, some participants indicated that net exports remained a nota-
ble source of support for the economy.  Growth in 
exports was being supported by strength in foreign economies as well as declines in the foreign exchange value of the dollar.  However, some of the recent in-
crease in net exports resulted from weaker imports, 
which reflected softer domestic spending.  Some par-ticipants saw somewhat slower global economic growth as a possible consequence of the problems in financial 
markets and weakness in the United States and noted 
that such a development could potentially limit the support that exports would provide to the U.S. econ-omy going forward. 
The recent information on in flation was seen as disap-
pointing.  With the exception of the February report on 
consumer prices, readings on inflation had generally been elevated.  Agricultural prices were rising at a sub-
stantial clip, partly in response to strong global de-
mand, lean supplies, and a lower foreign exchange value of the dollar.  Other commodity prices also were climbing rapidly, and crude oil prices were near record 
levels.  Several participants stated that business contacts 
had emphasized that their input costs were rising and that they were seeking to pass on higher costs to their customers.  Some participants, however, expressed the 
view that emerging economic slack would limit the ex-
tent to which firms could pa ss on their higher costs and 
could serve to damp inflation more generally.  More-over, available data and anecdotal reports suggested 
that unit labor costs were rising only modestly, and 
thus were seen as unlikely to exert significant upward 
pressure on prices.  Weaker growth, both in the United States and abroad, should also contribute to a flattening 
of oil and other commodity prices over time, which 
would also reduce price pressu res and the threat of ris-
ing inflation expectations.  On balance, most partici-pants still expected inflation to  moderate later this year 
and in 2009.  However, the recent depreciation of the dollar could boost import prices and thus contribute to higher inflation.  Moreover, with both core and head-line inflation having been somewhat elevated, partici-
pants expressed some concer n that inflation expecta-
tions might become less firmly anchored.  Indeed, 
some indicators suggested that inflation expectations had edged higher of late.  In view of these considera-
tions, significant uncertainty attended the near-term 
outlook for price pressures.  On balance, however, par-ticipants emphasized that appropriate monetary policy, combined with effective communication of the Com-
Page 6                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee
mittee’s commitment to price stability, would foster 
price stability over time. 
In the Committee’s discussion of monetary policy for 
the intermeeting period, most members judged that a substantial easing in the stance of monetary policy was warranted at this meeting.  The outlook for economic 
activity had weakened considerably since the January 
meeting, and members viewed the downside risks to economic growth as having increased.  Indeed, some believed that a prolonged and severe economic down-
turn could not be ruled out given the further restriction 
of credit availability and ongoing weakness in the hous-
ing market.  Members recognized that monetary policy alone could not address fully the underlying problems 
in the housing market and in financial markets, but they 
noted that, through a range of channels, lower short-
term real interest rates should help buoy economic ac-tivity and ameliorate strains in these markets.  Even 
with a substantial easing at this meeting, most members 
saw overall inflation as likely to moderate in coming quarters, reflecting a projected leveling-out of energy and commodity prices and an easing of pressures on 
resource utilization.  Howeve r, inflation pressures had 
apparently risen even as the outlook for growth had 
weakened.  With the uncertainties in the outlook for both economic activity and inflation elevated, members 
noted that appropriately calibrating the stance of policy 
was difficult, partly becaus e some time would be re-
quired to assess the effects of  the substantial easing of 
policy to date.  All in all, members judged that a 75 ba-
sis point easing of policy at this meeting was appropri-
ate to address the combination of risks of slowing eco-nomic growth, inflationary pressures, and financial market disruptions. 
The Committee agreed that the statement to be re-
leased after the meeting should indicate that economic activity had weakened further, reflecting slower growth in consumer spending and softening in the labor mar-
ket, that financial markets remained under considerable 
stress, and that the tightening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing market contraction were likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few 
quarters.  Given recent developments, the Committee 
concurred that the statement should note that inflation had been elevated and that some indicators of inflation expectations had risen, but agreed that the announce-
ment should also reiterate that inflation was expected 
t o  m o d e r a t e  i n  c o m i n g  q u a r t e r s .   A s  i n  r e c e n t  s t a t e -ments, the Committee emphasized that it would con-tinue to monitor inflation developments carefully.  The Federal Reserve had implemented a number of meas-u r e s  t o  f o s t e r  m a r k e t  l i q u i d i t y  i n  r e c e n t  w e e k s ,  a n d  
members thought that the statement should note that 
policy actions taken today and earlier, including those liquidity measures, would promote moderate growth over time.  In light of the uncertainties regarding the 
housing sector and financial market developments, 
however, the Committee repeated its recent indications that downside risks to growth remained.  The Commit-tee agreed on the need to act in a timely manner to 
promote its dual objectives of sustainable economic 
growth and price stability. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee 
voted to authorize and direct  the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to exe-cute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: 
“The Federal Open Market Committee seeks 
monetary and financial conditions that will fos-
ter price stability and promote sustainable growth in output.  To further its long-run objec-tives, the Committee in the immediate future 
seeks conditions in rese rve markets consistent 
with reducing the federal funds rate to an aver-
age of around 2¼ percent.” 
The vote encompassed approval of the statement be-
low to be released at 2:15 p.m.: 
“The Federal Open Market Committee decided 
today to lower its target for the federal funds rate 75 basis points to 2¼ percent. 
Recent information indicates that the outlook 
for economic activity has weakened further. Growth in consumer spending has slowed and labor markets have softened.  Financial markets 
remain under considerable stress, and the tight-
ening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing contraction are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters. 
Inflation has been elevated, and some indicators 
of inflation expectations have risen.  The Com-mittee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters, reflecting a projected leveling-out of 
energy and other commodity prices and an eas-
ing of pressures on resource utilization.  Still, uncertainty about the inflation outlook has in-creased.  It will be necessary to continue to 
monitor inflation developments carefully. 
Minutes of the Meeting of March 18, 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                Page 7
Today’s policy action, combined with those 
taken earlier, including measures to foster mar-
ket liquidity, should help to promote moderate 
growth over time and to mitigate the risks to economic activity.  Howe ver, downside risks to 
growth remain.  The Committee will act in a 
timely manner as needed to promote sustainable 
economic growth and price stability.” 
 
Votes for this action:   Messrs. Bernanke, Geithner, 
Kohn, Kroszner, and Mishkin, Ms. Pianalto, Messrs. 
Stern and Warsh. 
Votes against this action:   Messrs. Fisher and 
Plosser. 
Messrs. Fisher and Plosser di ssented because, in light 
of heightened inflation risks, they favored easing policy 
less aggressively.  Incoming  data suggested a weaker 
near-term outlook for economic growth, but the 
Committee’s earlier policy moves had already reduced 
the target federal funds rate  by 225 basis points to ad-
dress risks to growth, and the full effect of those rate cuts had yet to be felt.  While financial markets re-
mained under stress, the Fe deral Reserve had already 
taken separate, significant actions to address liquidity 
issues in markets.  In fact, Mr. Fisher felt that focusing on measures targeted at relieving liquidity strains would 
improve economic prospects more quickly and lastingly 
than would further reductions in the federal funds rate at this point; he believed that alleviating these strains would increase the efficacy of the earlier rate cuts.  
Both Messrs. Fisher and Pl osser were concerned that 
inflation expectations could potentially become un-
hinged should the Committee continue to lower the funds rate in the current en vironment.  They pointed to 
measures of inflation and indicators of inflation expec-tations that had risen, and Mr. Fisher stressed the in-ternational influences on U.S. inflation rates.  Mr. Plosser noted that the Committee could not afford to 
wait until there was clear evidence that inflation expec-
tations were no longer anchored, as by then it would be too late to prevent a further increase in inflation pres-sures.  
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee 
would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, April 29-30, 2008. 
The meeting adjourned at 1:15 p.m. Notation Vote 
By notation vote complete d on February 19, 2008, the 
Committee unanimously appr oved the minutes of the 
FOMC meeting held on January 29-30, 2008. 
Conference Call 
On March 10, 2008, the Committee met to review fi-
nancial market developments and to consider proposals 
aimed at supporting the liquidity and orderly function-ing of those markets.  In light of the sharp further dete-rioration of some key money and credit markets, and 
against the backdrop of a weaker economic outlook, 
meeting participants discusse d the potential usefulness 
and risks of instituting a Term Securities Lending Facil-ity, under which primary dealers would be able to bor-
row Treasury securities for a term of approximately one 
month against any collateral eligible for open market operations and the highest-quality private mortgage securities.  Most participants concluded that offering 
this facility was an appropriate step that could help al-
leviate pressures in the fina ncing markets for Treasury 
and some mortgage-backed securities.  By improving conditions in funding markets, the measure was ex-
pected to help restore the functioning of financial mar-
kets more generally and thereby promote the effective conduct of monetary policy as well as macroeconomic stability.  During the discussion, participants expressed 
concerns that establishment of the facility could be 
viewed as setting a precedent and thus raise expecta-tions of other actions in the future, and they also noted some uncertainty about how effective the facility would 
be in practice.  On balance, the Committee decided that 
the facility could prove useful  in preventing an escala-
tion of an unhealthy dynamic that was developing in money and credit markets, in  which liquidity and collat-
eral concerns were spreading.  In addition, the Com-mittee agreed to expand and extend the existing recip-
rocal currency agreements with the European Central Bank and the Swiss National Bank.  
 
The Committee voted to appr ove the following resolu-
tions:  
Term Securities Lending Facility
. 
In addition to the current authorization granted to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York to engage in over-night securities lending transactions, and in order to 
ensure the effective conduct of open market opera-
tions, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to lend up to $200 billion of U.S. Government securities held in the 
System Open Market Account to primary dealers for a 
Page 8                                                                                                                                                                             _
Federal Open Market Committee
term that does not exceed 35 days at rates that shall be 
determined by competitive bidding. 
 
These lending transactions may be against pledges of U.S. Government securities, other assets that the Re-serve Bank is specifically authorized to buy and sell 
under section 14 of the Federal Reserve Act (including 
federal agency residential- mortgage-backed securities 
(MBS)), and non-agency AAA-rated residential MBS.    
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall set a 
minimum lending fee consistent with the objectives of the program and apply reasonable limitations on the total amount of a specific issue that may be auctioned 
and on the amount of securities that each dealer may 
borrow.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York may reject 
bids which could facilitate a dealer’s ability to control a 
single issue as determined solely by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  
This authority shall expire at such time as determined 
by the Federal Open Market Committee or the Board of Governors.  
Secretary’s note:  By notation vote completed on March 20, 2008, the Committee unani-mously approved a resolution that added non-agency AAA-rated commercial-mortgage-
backed securities to the list of collateral accept-
able in connection with the Term Securities Lending Facility.    
 
Swap Authorizations
.   
The Federal Open Market Committee directs the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York to increase the amount  available from the System Open Market Account under the existing reciprocal currency arrangement (“swap” 
arrangement) with the European Central Bank to an 
amount not to exceed $30 b illion.  Within that aggre-
gate limit, draws of up to $15 billion are hereby author-ized.  The current swap arrangement shall be extended 
until September 30, 2008, un less further extended by 
the Federal Open Market Committee. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee directs the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York to increase the amount 
available from the System Open Market Account under the existing reciprocal currency arrangement (“swap” arrangement) with the Swiss National Bank to an 
amount not to exceed $6 billion.  Draws are authorized 
up to the full amount of the swap.  The current swap arrangement shall be extended until September 30, 2008, unless further extended  by the Federal Open 
Market Committee.  Votes for these actions:  Messrs. Bern anke, Geithner, 
Fisher, Kohn, and Kroszner, Ms. Pianalto, Messrs. 
Plosser and Warsh, and Ms. Yellen. 
 Votes against these actions:   None. 
 
Absent and not voting:   Mr. Mishkin. 
 
Ms. Yellen voted as alternate member.  
    
_____________________________ 
Brian F. Madigan 
Secretary 
 
Minutes of the Meeting of March 18, 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                Page 9