     
                                  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                                             
  
                                                      
                        
                        
                       
                        
 
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A G E N D A  
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE
Tuesday, January 29, 2008 at 2:00 p.m. 
and continuing on  
Wednesday, January 30, 2008 at 9:00 a.m. Class III FOMC – Internal (FR) 
Advices of the election of the following memb ers and alternate members of the Federal 
Open Market Committee for a term commen cing January 29, 2008 have been received by 
the Secretariat, and these individuals have executed their oaths of office. 
Members  Alternate Members  
Timothy F. Geithner Christine M. Cumm
ing 
Charles I. Plosser Jeffrey M. Lacker 
Sandra Pianalto Charles L. Evans 
Richard W. Fisher Dennis P. Lockhart 
Gary H. Stern Janet L. Yellen 
1. Election of Committee officers. 
A. Chairman  
B. Vice Chairman 
C. Staff officers  
2. Proposed changes to Committee rules.  (S ee memo from Scott Alvarez and Deborah 
Danker dated January 18, 2008.) 
3. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to ex ecute transactions for the System Open 
Market Account.  
4. Selection of a Manager of the System Open Market Account.  
5. Proposed revision to the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations.  (See 
forthcoming memo from William Dudley.) 
6. Review of the Authorization for Domestic  Open Market Operations, the Foreign 
Currency Directive, and the Procedural Inst ructions with Respect to Foreign Currency 
Operations.  (See forthcoming memo from William Dudley.)  

Class III FOMC – Internal (FR) 
 
 
 
 
 7.
 Foreign currency and domestic open market operations. 
A. Report on market developments.  
B. Action to ratify the open market trans actions for the System account since the 
December meeting.  
8. Economic situation.  
A. Staff report (Chart Show). 
B. Committee discussion.  
9. Current monetary policy.  
A. Staff comments.  
B. Committee discussion of the policy statement.  
C. Action to adopt directive and statement.  
10. Analysis of policy issues raised by financia l market developments.  (See memo from 
the Staff Umbrella Group on Financial Stab ility sent to the Committee on January 18, 
2008.)  
A. Staff comments.  
B. Committee discussion.  
11. Confirmation of the date for the ne xt meeting (Tuesday, March 18, 2008).   
