CONFIDENTIAL (FR)
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee to be held on Tuesday, March 21, 1972, at 9:30 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members
of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing March 1,
1972, have been received by the Secretary and the named individuals
have executed their oaths of office:
Member Alternate Member
Alfred Hayes William F. Treiber
David P. Eastburn Aubrey N. Heflin
Willis J. Winn Robert P. Mayo
Bruce K. MacLaury Eliot J. Swan
Philip E. Coldwell Darryl R. Francis
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their
successors at the first meeting of the Committee after
February 28, 1973:
a. Chairman
b. Vice Chairman
c. Staff Officers
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions
for the System Open Market Account.
3. Selection of (a) Manager of the System Open Market Account,
and (b) Special Manager for foreign currency operations for
such Account.
4. Ratification of action of Committee members on February 29,
1972, increasing from $2 billion to $3 billion the limit
specified in paragraph 1(a) of the continuing authority
directive on changes between Committee meetings in System
Account holdings of U.S. Government and Federal agency
securities.

5. Ratification of action of Committee members on March 7, 1972,
suspending until close of business on March 21, 1972, the lower
limit on interest rates on repurchase agreements specified in
paragraph 1(c) of continuing authority directive.
6. Approval of minutes of actions taken at the meeting of the
Federal Open Market Committee on January 11, 1972.
7. Acceptance of memoranda of discussion for the meetings of the
Federal Open Market Committee on January 11 and February 14,
1972.
8. Foreign currency operations.
A. Reports on foreign meetings.
B. Report by Special Manager on foreign currency operations
since the meeting of the Committee on February 15, 1972;
and action with respect to transactions during that period.
C. Consideration of recommendations of Special Manager.
9. Economic and financial situation and outlook.
A. Staff report.
B. General Committee discussion.
10. Domestic open market operations.
A. Report by Manager on open market operations since the
meeting of the Committee on February 15, 1972; and
action with respect to transactions during that period.
B. Staff comments on monetary relationships described in
blue book.

11. Discussion of monetary policy and of current economic
policy directive to be issued to the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York. (Copy of February 15, 1972, directive
attached.)
12. Review of procedure for granting access to minutes and other
records of the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum
attached.)
13. Proposed procedure for making historical Committee records
available to public. (See forthcoming memorandum from the
Secretariat.)
14. Semi-annual review of authority to lend securities from System
Open Market Account. (See memoranda from Manager and General
Counsel distributed on March 8, 1972.)
15. Discussion of Report of Staff Committee on Repurchase Agree-
ments, distributed on March 7, 1972.
16. Proposed revision of guidelines for operations in agency issues.
(See memorandum from Manager, entitled "Operations in Government
Agency Securities," dated March 9, 1972.) (Copy of current
guidelines attached.)
17. Review of continuing authority directive with respect to
domestic open market operations. (Copy attached.)
18. Review of (a) authorization for System foreign currency
operations and (b) foreign currency directive. (Copies
attached.)
19. Confirmation of date for next meeting (April 18, 1972).
Attachments
