Class III FOMC – Internal (FR)  
-1 -Revised  
A G E N D A  
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE  
Tuesday, January 29, 2019, at 10:00 a.m.   
and continuing on  
Wednesday, January  30, 2019, at 9:00 a.m.  
Advices of the election of the following Federal Open Market Committee members and 
alternate s for a term commencing January 29 , 201 9, have been received by the 
Secretariat, and these individuals have executed their oaths of office.  
Members  Alternate s 
John C. Williams  Michael Strine  
Charles L. Evans  Loretta J. Mester  
Eric Rosengr en Patrick Harker  
James Bullard   Robert S. Kaplan  
Esther L. George  Neel Kashkari  
1.Election of Committee officers.
A.Chair man
B.Vice Chair man
C.Staff officers
2.Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the System Open
Market Account.
3.Selection of  a manager and deputy manager for  the System Open Market Account.
4.Proposed  revisions  to the Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations , and
reaffirmation  without revision  of the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations
and the Foreign Currency Directive.  (See memo fr om Simon Potter , dated January
22, 201 9.)
5.Reaffirm ation  without revision of the Program for Security of FOMC Information.
(See memo from James A. Clouse, Matthew M. Luecke, and Mark Van Der Weide,
dated Janu ary 22, 2019 .)
Authorized for Public Release
 Class III FOMC – Internal (FR)   
 - 2 - 6. Proposed update to the Statement on Longer -Run Goals and Monetary Policy 
Strategy.  (See memo from James A. Clouse, Matthew M. Luecke, and Mark Van Der 
Weide, dated January 22, 2019 .) 
 
7. Financial developments and open market operations.  
A. Staff report on market developments and operations.  
B. Action to ratify the open market transactions for the System account since the 
December meeting.  
 
8. Special Topic:  Long -Run Monetary Policy Implementation Frameworks . 
A. Staff report.  (See background memos distributed January 17, 18, 23, and 28,  
2019.)  
B. Committee discussion.  
 
9. Economic and financial situation.  
A. Staff report.  
B. Opportunity for Committee participants to comment on financial stability iss ues.   
C. Committee discussion of economic developments and outlo ok. 
 
10. Current monetary policy.  
A. Staff comments.  
B. Committee discussion.  
C. Action to adopt directive and statement.  
 
11. Confirmation of the date for the next meeting ( Tuesday–Wednesday , March 19–20, 
2019). 
Authorized for Public Release