CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee to be held on Tuesday, March 5, 1963, at 9:30 a.m.  
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate 
members of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year com
mencing March 1, 1963, have been received by the Secretary and 
it appears that they will be lagally qualified to serve after 
they have executed their Oaths of Office: 
Member Alternate Member 
Alfred Hayes William F. Treiber 
Karl R. Bopp Edward A. Wayne 
Charles J. Scanlon Wilbur D. Fulton 
George H. Clay Eliot J. Swan 
Watrous H. Irons Harry A. Shuford 
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their suc
cessors at the first meeting of the Committee after February 29, 
1964: 
a. Chairman 
b. Vice Chairman 
c. Secretary and Assistant Secretaries 
d. General Counsel and Assistant General Counsel 
e. Economist and Associate Economists 
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for 
the System Open Market Account.  
3. Selection of (a) Manager of the System Open Market Account, and 
(b) Special Manager for foreign currency operations for such 
Account.  
4. Approval of the minutes of the meetings of the Federal Open 
Market Committee held on January 29 and February 12, 1963.

-2-
5. Review of continuing authorities (see attached memorandum relat
ing to this topic).  
a. Continuing authority directive to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York with regard to transactions in U. S. Government 
securities and bankers' acceptances.  
b. Authorization and guidelines regarding open market trans
actions in foreign currencies, and continuing authority 
directive for such operations.  
c. Procedure for allocation of securities in System Open Market 
Account, and suggested revision in such procedure.  
d. Distribution of periodic reports prepared by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York for the Federal Open Market 
Committee.  
e. Authority for Chairman to appoint a Federal Reserve Bank as 
agent to operate the System Account temporarily in case the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York is unable to function.  
f. Resolution to provide for the continued operation of the 
Federal Open Market Committee during an emergency.  
g. Resolution authorizing certain actions by the Federal Re
serve Banks during an emergency.  
h. Authorization for System personnel assigned to Classified 
Relocation Center (formerly High Point) to have access to 
the foregoing resolutions relating to emergency operations.  
i. Resolution requesting a report of each examination of the 
System Open Market Account by the Board's examining force.

-3-
6. Review of procedure for granting access to minutes and other 
records of the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum 
attached.) 
7. Report by the Manager of the System Open Market Account on open 
market operations since the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee on February 12, 1963, and action with respect to trans
actions during such period.  
8. Report by the Special Manager for foreign currency operations on 
such operations since the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee on February 12, 1963; action with respect to trans
actions during such period; and consideration of recommendations 
of the Special Manager.  
9. Review of economic and financial developments.  
10. Discussion of factors bearing on monetary and credit policy; and 
derivation of consensus regarding open market operations in the 
forthcoming period.  
11. Current economic policy directive to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. (Copy of February 12, 1963, directive attached.) 
12. Confirmation of date for next meeting. (March 26, 1963.)
Attachments
