Class III FOMC – Internal (FR) 
 - 1 - REVISED 1/27/09 
                                       
A G E N D A  
 
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE 
 
Tuesday, January 27, 2009 at 1:30 p.m.   
and continuing on  
Wednesday, January 28, 2009 at 9:00 a.m. 
 
  
Advices of the election of the following memb ers and alternate members of the Federal 
Open Market Committee for a term commen cing January 27, 2009 have been received by 
the Secretariat, and these individuals have executed their oaths of office. 
 
                             Members                                                   Alternate Members  
        William C. Dudley    Christine M. Cumming 
         Jeffrey M. Lacker    Eric S. Rosengren 
         Charles L. Evans     Sandra Pianalto  
         Dennis P. Lockhart    James B. Bullard 
         Janet L. Yellen     Thomas M. Hoenig   
 
                                             
 
1. Election of Committee officers. 
A. Chairman  
B. Vice Chairman  
C. Staff officers  
 
2. Proposed revision to Program for Security of FOMC Inform
ation.   
 
3. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to ex ecute transactions for the System Open 
Market Account.  
 
4. Selection of a Manager of the System Open Market Account.   
 
5. Proposed revision to the Au thorization for Foreign Cu rrency Operations and the 
Foreign Currency Directive; review of the Procedural Instructi ons with Respect to 
Foreign Currency Operations.   
 
6. Proposed revision to the Aut horization for Domestic Open Market Operations.   
 
Class III FOMC – Internal (FR) 
 - 2 - 7. Proposed treatment of Guidelines for the C onduct of Syste
m Open Market Operations 
in Federal Agency Issues.   
 
8. Foreign currency and domestic open m
arket operations. 
A. Report on market developments.  
B. Report on System liquidity programs and balance sheet developments.  
C. Proposal on extending certain liquidity  programs through October 30, 2009.   
D. Proposal on long-term Treasury purchases.  
E. Committee discussion.   
F. Action to ratify the open market trans actions for the System account since the 
December meeting.  
 
9. Economic situation.  
A. Staff report (Chart Show).
 
B. Committee discussion.  
 
10. Current monetary policy.  
A. Staff comments.  
B. Comm
ittee discussion.  
C. Action to adopt directive and statement.  
 
11. Proposal on longer-run projections.   
 
12. Confirma
tion of the date for the ne xt meeting (Tuesday, March 17, 2009).   
 