AGENDA
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE
Tuesday, March 31, 1987 at 9:00 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members of
the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing March 1, 1987,
have been received by the Secretariat and these individuals have executed
their oaths of office:
Member Alternate Member
E. Gerald Corrigan Thomas M. Timlen
Edward G. Boehne Robert P. Black
Silas Keehn Vacancy*
Robert H. Boykin Robert P. Forrestal
Gary H. Stern Robert T. Parry
* Mrs. Karen N. Horn was elected Alternate Member by the Federal Reserve
Banks of Cleveland and Chicago. In light of her resignation as President
of the Cleveland Bank effective April 8, Mrs. Horn has not executed an
oath of office.
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors
at the first meeting of the Committee after February 29, 1988.
A. Chairman
B. Vice Chairman
C. Staff officers
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the
System Open Market Account.
3. Selection of (a) Manager for Domestic Operations and (b) Manager for
Foreign Operations, System Open Market Account.
4. Review of authorization for domestic open market operations.
(See attachment.)
5. Review of (a) foreign currency authorization, (b) foreign currency
directive and (c) procedural instructions with respect to foreign
currency operations. (See attachment.)
6. Approval of minutes of actions taken at the meeting of the Federal
Open Market Committee on February 10-11, 1987.

7. Foreign currency operations.
A. Report on operations since February meeting.
B. Action to ratify transactions since February meeting.
8. Domestic open market operations.
A. Report on operations since February meeting.
B. Action to ratify transactions since February meeting.
9. Staff report on economic situation.
10. Committee discussion of economic situation.
11. Current monetary policy and domestic policy directive.
A. Staff comments.
B. Committee discussion.
C. Action to adopt directive.
12. Confirmation of date for next meeting (Tuesday, May 19, 1987).
