CONFIDENTIAL (FR)
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee to be held on Tuesday March 3 1964, at 9:30 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members
of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing March 1,
1964, have been received by the Secretary and it appears that they will
be legally qualified to serve after they have executed their Oaths of
Office:
Member
Alfred Hayes
Edward A. Wayne
W. Braddock Hickman
Harry A. Shuford
Eliot J. SwanAlternate Member
William F. Treiber
George H. Ellis
Charles J. Scanlon
Malcolm Bryan
Frederick L. Deming
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors
at the first meeting of the Committee after February 28, 1965:
Chairman
Vice Chairman
Secretary and Assistant Secretaries
General Counsel and Assistant General Counsel
Economist and Associate Economists
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the
System Open Market Account.
3. Selection of (a) Manager of the System Open Market Account, and
(b) Special Manager for foreign currency operations for such
Account.
4. Approval of the minutes of the meetings of the Federal Open Market
Committee on January 28 and February 11, 1964.

5. Review of continuing authorities (see attached memorandum relating
to this topic).
a. Continuing authority directive to the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York with regard to transactions in U. S. Government
securities and bankers' acceptances.
b. Authorization and guidelines regarding open market trans-
actions in foreign currencies, and continuing authority
directive for such operations.
c. Procedure for allocation of securities in System Open Market
Account, last revised on December 3, 1963.
d. Distribution of periodic reports prepared by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York for the Federal Open Market
Committee.
e. Authority for Chairman to appoint a Federal Reserve Bank as
agent to operate the System Account temporarily in case the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York is unable to function.
f. Resolution to provide for the continued operation of the
Federal Open Market Committee during an emergency.
g. Resolution authorizing certain actions by the Federal Reserve
Banks during an emergency.
h. Authorization for System personnel assigned to Classified
Relocation Center to have access to the foregoing resolu-
tions relating to emergency operations.
i. Resolution requesting a report of each examination of the
System Open Market Account by the Board's examining force.

6. Review of procedure for granting access to minutes and other
records of the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum
attached.)
7. Report by the Special Manager for foreign currency operations
on such operations since the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee on February 11, 1964; action with respect to trans-
actions during such period; and consideration of recommendations
of the Special Manager.
8. Report by the Manager of the System Open Market Account on open
market operations since the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee on February 11, 1964, and action with respect to
transactions during such period.
9. Review of economic and financial developments.
10. Discussion of factors bearing on monetary and credit policy;
and derivation of consensus regarding open market operations
in the forthcoming period.
11. Current economic policy directive to the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York. (Copy of February 11, 1964, directive attached.)
12. Report by the Secretary of discussions with representatives of
major foundations and professional societies regarding the matter
of making the System's historical records available.
13. Further discussion of request made to Chairman Martin on January
22, 1964 by the Subcommittee on Domestic Finance of the House
Banking and Currency Committee that the Subcommittee be furnished
with the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee for the
years 1960, 1961, 1962, and 1963.
14. Confirmation of date for next meeting. (March 24, 1964.)
Attachments
