Class III FOMC – Internal (FR)  
- 1 -A G E N D A 
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE  
Tuesday, January 31 , 2017, at 1:00 p.m.    
and continuing on  
Wednesday, February  1, 2017, at 9:0 0 a.m.  
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members of the Federal 
Open Market Co mmittee for a term commencing January 31, 2017, have been received 
by the Secretariat, and these individuals have executed their oaths of office. 
Members  Alternate Members  
William C. Dudley  Michael Strine  
Charles L. Evans Loretta J. Mester 
Patrick Harker   Jeffrey M. Lacker  
Robert S. Kaplan Marie Gooding 
Neel Kashkari   John C. Williams  
1.Election of Committee officers.A.Chair
B.Vice Chair
C.Staff officers
2.Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the System OpenMarket Account.
3.Selection of a manager and deputy manager of the System Open Market Account.
4.Proposed adoption without revision of the Authorization for Domestic Open MarketOperations, the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations, and the F oreign
Currency Directive.  (See memo fr om Simon Potter dated January 13, 2017.)
5.Proposed changes to the Program for Security of FOMC Information.  (See memofrom Scott G. Alvarez, Matthew M. Luecke, and B rian F. Madigan dated January 13,
2017.)
Authorized for Public Release
 Class III FOMC – Internal (FR)   
 - 2 - 6. Proposed update to the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy 
Strategy.  (See memo from Scott G. Alvarez, Matthew M. Luecke, and Brian F. 
Madigan dated January 13, 2017.)  
 
7. Proposed revisions to the FOMC Policy on External Communications of Committee Participants and to the FOMC Policy on External Communications of Federal Reserve System Staff.  (See memo from subcommittee on communications dated January 18, 2017.) 
 
8. Proposed addition of fan charts to the Summary of Economic Projections .  (See 
memo from subcommittee on communicatio ns dated January 4, 2017.) 
 9. Financial developments  and open market operations. 
A. Staff report on market developments and operations.  
B. Action to ratify the open market transactions for the System account since the December  meeting.  
 
10. Economic and financial situation. A. Staff report.  
B. Opportunity for Committee participants to comment on financial stability iss ues.  
(See memo  dated January 24, 2017.) 
C. Committee discussion of economic developments and outlook. 
 
11. Current monetary policy. A. Staff comments.  
B. Committee discussion.  
C. Action to adopt directive and statement. 
 12. Confirmation of the date for the next meeting (Tuesday–Wednesday , March 14 –15, 
2017).  
Authorized for Public Release