CONFIDENTIAL (FR)
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee to be held on Tuesday, March 7, 1967, at 9:30 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members
of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing March 1,
1967, have been received by the Secretary and it appears that they will
be legally qualified to serve after they have executed their Oaths of
Office:
Member
Alfred Hayes
Edward A. Wayne
Charles J. Scanlon
Darryl R. Francis
Eliot J. SwanAlternate Member
William F. Treiber
George H. Ellis
W. Braddock Hickman
Harold T. Patterson
Hugh D. Galusha, Jr.
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors
at the first meeting of the Committee after February 29, 1968:
Chairman
Vice Chairman
Secretary and Assistant Secretaries
General Counsel and Assistant General Counsel
Economist and Associate Economists
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the
System Open Market Account.
3. Selection of (a) Manager of the System Open Market Account, and (b)
Special Manager for foreign currency operations for such Account.
4. Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee held on February 7, 1967.

5. Review of certain continuing authorities.
a. Procedure for allocation of securities in System Open Market
Account. (Description attached of current procedure, as last
revised on March 2, 1965.)
b. Distribution of periodic reports prepared by the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York for the Federal Open Market Committee. (Copy
attached of proposed authorization for distribution of such
reports.)
c. Authority for Chairman to appoint a Federal Reserve Bank as
agent to operate the System Account temporarily in case the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York is unable to function.
(Note: This authorization was first given in March 1951.
The report of the Subcommittee on Defense Planning, approved
by the Committee at its meeting on January 10, 1956, contained
the recommendation that this authorization be reaffirmed, and
that has been done at the first meeting in March of each year
since.)
d. Resolution to provide for the continued operation of the Federal
& Open Market Committee during an emergency; and Resolution author-
e. izing certain actions by the Federal Reserve Banks during an
emergency. (Copies attached. These resolutions were first
adopted on March 6, 1956, pursuant to the approval by the Com-
mittee on January 10, 1956, of the report of the Subcommittee
on Defense Planning dated January 9, 1956. The resolutions
were renewed in the form attached on March 1, 1966.)
f. Authorization for System personnel assigned to the Office of
Emergency Planning, Special Facilities Branch, to have access
to the foregoing resolutions relating to emergency operations.
(Note: At the meeting on December 16, 1958, the Committee
authorized System personnel assigned to the Office of Emergency
Planning, Special Facilities Branch, on a rotating basis to
have access to the resolutions referred to under d. and e.
above. This authorization was reaffirmed on March 1, 1966.)
g. Resolution requesting a report of each examination of the
System Open Market Account by the Board's examining force.
(Note: The resolution requesting the Board of Governors to
cause its examining force in the future to furnish the
Secretary of the Open Market Committee a report of each
examination of the System Open Market Account was adopted
on June 21, 1939. Excerpts from the minutes showing the
origin of this resolution are attached. The procedure then
established was reviewed at the meeting on March 1, 1966, at
which time it was continued without change.)
6. Review of procedure for granting access to minutes and other records
of the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum attached.)

7. Further discussion of criteria for increasing membership in the
Federal Reserve network of reciprocal currency arrangements. (See
forthcoming staff memoranda.)
8. Discussion of System participation with the Bank of Italy in forward
lire operations. (See staff memoranda distributed under date of Feb-
ruary 27, 1967.)
9. Discussion of Committee policy with respect to publication of informa-
tion on drawings under System swap network and on other System foreign
currency operations. (See forthcoming staff memorandum.)
10. Review of authorization for System foreign currency operations and
foreign currency directive. (Copies attached.)
11. Review of continuing authority directive to the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York with regard to transactions in U.S. Government securities
and bankers' acceptances. (Copy attached. See forthcoming memorandum
from Mr. Holmes.)
12. Preliminary
of 'Freedom
Committee,"discussion of memorandum from Mr. Hackley entitled, "Effect
of Information Act' on procedures of the Federal Open Market
distributed under date of February 21, 1967.
13. Report by the Special Manager for foreign currency operations on such
operations since the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on
February 7, 1967; action with respect to transactions during such
period; and consideration of recommendations of the Special Manager.
14. Report by the Manager of the
operations since the meeting
February 7, 1967; and action
period.System Open Market Account on open market
of the Federal Open Market Committee on
with respect to transactions during such
15. Reports on economic and financial developments.
16. Discussion of factors bearing on monetary and credit policy; and
derivation of consensus regarding open market operations in the
forthcoming period.

-4-
17. Current economic policy directive to the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York. (Copy of February 7, 1967, directive attached.)
18. Confirmation of date for next meeting (April 4, 1967).
Attachments
