  
 
     
 
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass III FOMC – Internal (FR) 
A G E N D A 
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE 
Tuesday, January 29, 2013, at 2:00 p.m. 
and continuing on 
Wednesday, January 30,  2013, at 9:00 a.m. 
Advices of the election of the following memb ers and alternate members of the Federal 
Open Market Committee for a term commen cing January 29, 2013 have been received by 
the Secretariat, and these individuals have executed their oaths of office. 
Members Alternate Members 
William C. Dudley Christine Cumming 
J a m e s B u l l a r d R i c h a r d W . F i s h e r 
Charles L. Evans Sandra Pianalto 
Esther L. George Narayana Kocherlakota 
Eric Rosengren Charles I. Plosser 
1. Election of Committee officers. 
A. Chairman 
B. Vice Chairman 
C. Staff officers 
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to ex ecute transactions for the System Open 
Market Account. 
3. Selection of a Manager of the System Open Market Account. 
4. Proposed revisions to the Aut horization for Domestic Open Market Operations.  (See 
forthcoming memo.) 
5. Proposed revisions the Authorization fo r Foreign Currency Operations and the 
Procedural Instructions with Respect to Foreign Currency Operat ions; review of the 
Foreign Currency Directive. (See forthcoming memo.) 
- 1 -
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass III FOMC – Internal (FR) 
6. Proposed revisions to the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy 
Strategy, the Policy on External Communica tions of Committee Participants, the 
Policy on External Communications of Federa l Reserve System Staff, and the Rules 
of Procedure; review of the Program for Security of FOMC Information.  (See 
forthcoming memo.) 
7. Financial developments and open market operations. A. Report on market developments and operations. 
B. Action to ratify the open market trans actions for the System account since the 
December meeting. 
8. Economic situation. A. Chart Show. 
B. Committee discussion. 
9. Current monetary policy. A. Staff comments. 
B. Committee discussion. 
C. Action to adopt directive and statement. 
10. Potential enhancements to the Summary of Economic Projections. (See memos on 
this topic distributed on January 18 and 22.) A. Staff presentation. 
B. Committee discussion. 
11. Confirmation of the date for the next meeting (Tuesday-Wednesday, March 19-20, 
2013). 
- 2 -