CONFIDENTIAL (FR)
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee to be held on Tuesday, March 2, 1965, at 9:30 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members
of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing March 1,
1965, have been received by the Secretary and it appears that they will
be legally qualified to serve after they have executed their Oaths of
Office:
Member
George H. Ellis
Alfred Hayes
Malcolm Bryan
Charles J. Scanlon
President of Minneapolis
Reserve Bank*Alternate Member
Karl R. Bopp
William F. Treiber
Watrous H. Irons
W. Braddock Hickman
George H. Clay
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors
at the first meeting of the Committee after February 28, 1966:
Chairman
Vice Chairman
Secretary and Assistant Secretaries
General Counsel and Assistant General Counsel
Economist and Associate Economists
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the
System Open Market Account.
3. Selection of (a) Manager of the System Open Market Account, and
(b) Special Manager for foreign currency operations for such
Account.
4. Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee held on February 2, 1965.
* The person who is on March 1, 1965, or who shall thereafter become,
the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.

5. Review of continuing authorities.
a. Continuing authority directive to the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York with regard to transactions in U.S. Government secu-
rities and bankers' acceptances. (Copy attached, along with
memorandum from Mr. Stone relating to this item.)
b. Authorization and guidelines regarding open market trans-
actions in foreign currencies, and continuing authority
directive for such operations, (Copies attached.)
c. Procedure for allocation of securities in System Open Market
Account. (Description attached of current procedure, as
amended on December 3, 1963, and as last reviewed on
March 3, 1964.)
d. Distribution of periodic reports prepared by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York for the Federal Open Market Committee.
(Copy attached of proposed authorization for distribution of
such reports.)
e. Authority for Chairman to appoint a Federal Reserve Bank as
agent to operate the System Account temporarily in case the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York is unable to function.
(Note: This authorization was first given in March 1951.
The report of the Subcommittee on Defense Planning, approved
by the Committee at its meeting on January 10, 1956, con-
tained the recommendation that this authorization be reaffirmed,
and that has been done at the first meeting in March of each
year since.)
f. & g. Resolution to provide for the continued operation of the Federal
Open Market Committee during an emergency; and Resolution author-
izing certain actions by the Federal Reserve Banks during an
emergency. (Copies attached. These resolutions were first adopted
on March 6, 1956, pursuant to the approval by the Committee on
January 10, 1956, of the report of the Subcommittee on Defense
Planning dated January 9, 1956. They were renewed in the form
attached on March 3, 1964.)
h. Authorization for System personnel assigned to the Office of
Emergency Planning, Special Facilities Branch, to have access
to the foregoing resolutions relating to emergency operations.
(Note: At the meeting on December 16, 1958, the Committee
authorized System personnel assigned to the Office of Emer-
gency Planning, Special Facilities Branch (formerly, Office
of Civil and Defense Mobilization--Classified Location) on a
rotating basis to have access to the resolutions referred to
under f. and g. above. This authorization was reaffirmed on
March 3, 1964.)

5. (continued)
i. Resolution requesting a report of each examination of the
System Open Market Account by the Board's examining force.
(Note: The resolution requesting the Board of Governors
to cause its examining force in the future to furnish the
Secretary of the Open Market Committee a report of each
examination of the System Open Market Account was adopted
on June 21, 1939. Excerpts from the minutes showing the
origin of this resolution are attached. The procedure then
established was reviewed at the meeting on March 3, 1964,
at which time it was continued without change.)
6. Review of procedure for granting access to minutes and other
records of the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum
attached.)
7. Report by the Special Manager for foreign currency operations on
such operations since the meeting of the Federal Open Market Com-
mittee on February 2, 1965; action with respect to transactions
during such period; and consideration of recommendations of the
Special Manager.
8. Report by the Manager of the System Open Market Account on open
market operations since the meeting of the Federal Open Market -
Committee on February 2, 1965; and action with respect to trans-
actions during such period.
9. Reports on economic and financial developments.
10. Discussion of factors bearing on monetary and credit policy; and
derivation of consensus regarding open market operations in the
forthcoming period. (See attached suggested list of questions
relating to this item.)
11. Current economic policy directive to the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York (Copy of February 2, 1965, directive attached.)
12. Confirmation of date for next meeting (March 23, 1965).
Note: It is contemplated that Committee members will hold a general
discussion of the desirability of specifying quantities in
its current economic policy directive. If this is done on
March 2, it may involve reconvening after lunch.
Attachments
