CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Commiteeto be held on Tuesday,_iarch 6, 1962.a 10:0at_ am 
l Advices of the election of the following members and alternate 
members of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year com
mencing March 1, 1962, have been received by the Secretary and 
it appears that they will be legally qualified to serve after 
they have executed their Oaths of Office: 
Nember Alternate Member 
George H. Ellis Karl R. Bopp 
Alfred Hayes William F. Treiber 
Wilbur D. Fulton Charles J. Scanlon 
Malcolm Bryan Watrous H. Irons 
Frederick L. Deming George H. Clay 
2. Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors 
at the first meeting of the Committee after February 2$, 1963: 
a. Chairman 
b. Vice Chairman 
c. Secretary and Assistant Secretaries 
d. General Counsel and Assistant General Counsel 
e. Economist and Associate Economists 
3. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the 
System Open Market Account.  
4. Approval of (a) Manager of the System Open Market Account and 
(b) Special kanager for foreign currency operations for such 
Account.

-2-
5, Review of continuing authorities (see attached memorandum relating 
to this topic and copies of authorizations and resolutions referred 
to).  
a, Continuing authority directive to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, 
b. Authorization regarding open market transactions in foreign 
currencies, and continuing authority directive for such 
operations, 
c. Purchase and sale of cable transfers, bills of exchange, and 
bankerst acceptances payable in foreign currencies.  
d. Allocation of Government securities in System Open Market Account, 
e, Distribution of periodic reports prepared by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York for the Federal Open Market Committee.  
* f. Authorization to Manager of System Open Market Account to engage 
in transactions on a cash as well as a regular delivery basis.  
*g. Authorization to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to 
enter into repurchase agreements covering Government securities.  
* h, Authorization to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to pur
chase bankers' acceptances.  
* i. Authorization of a charge on special short-term certificates of 
indebtedness purchased direct from the Treasury pursuant to 
paragraph (2) of the Committee's continuing authority directive 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  
j. Authority for Chairman to appoint .a Federal Reserve Bank as agent 
to operate the System Account temporarily in case the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York is unable to function.  
k. Resolution to provide for the continued operation of the Federal 
Open Market Committee during an emergency, 
1. Resolution authorizing certain actions by the Federal Reserve 
Banks during an emergency, 
m, Authorization to make available to System personnel assigned to 
High Point the foregoing resolutions relating to emergency 
operations.  
n. Resolution regarding a report of each examination of the System 
Open Karket Account by the Board's examining force.  
6. Review of procedure for giving access to minutes and other records 
of the Federal Open Miarket Committee. (Memorandum attached.) 
7. Reports of open market operations since the meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee on February 13, 1962, by (a) the Manager of the 
System Open Market Account, and (b) the Special Manager for foreign 
currency operations; and action with respect to transactions during 
such period.  
* Renewal of these authorities will not be necessary if the continuing 
authority directive to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is adopted 
in the form of the attached revised draft dated February 27, 1962,

-3
$, Review of economic and credit outlook, 
9. Discussion of open market operations and related matters; and 
derivation of consensus, 
10, Current economic policy directive to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, (Copy of directive issued at meeting on February 13, 
1962, is attached for convenient reference,) 
11, Date and time for next meeting of Committee 0
Attachments

CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
SUPPLELENTAL AGENDA 
Matter for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee to be held on Tuesday, Varch 6, 1962, 
1. Ratification of the action of a majority of the members of 
the Committee on February 28, 1962, in approving the trans
action recommended by the Special Manager for Foreign 
Currency Operations of the System Open Market Account in
volving a three-month French franc-dollar reciprocal arrange
ment in the amount of 050 million, as outlined in the telegram 
sent by Mr. Young to the members of the Committee on February 
27, 1962,
