CONFIDENTIAL (FR)
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market Com
mittee to be held on Tuesday, March 7, 1961, at 10:00 a,m.  
1. Advices of the election of the following members and alternate mem
bers of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing 
March 1, 1961, have been received by the Secretary and it appears 
that they will be legally qualified to serve after they have 
executed their Oaths of Office: 
Member Alternate Member 
Alfred Hayes William F. Treiber 
Edward A. Wayne George H. Ellis 
Carl E. Allen Wilbur D. Fulton 
Watrous H. Irons Delos C. Johns 
Eliot J. Swan Frederick L. Deming 
2, Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors 
at the first meeting of the Committee after February 28, 1962.  
a. Chairman 
b. Vice Chairman 
c. Secretary and Assistant Secretaries 
d. General Counsel and Assistant General Counsel 
e. Economist and Associate Economists 
3. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the 
System Open Market Account. Approval of the Manager of the Account.  
4. Approval of the minutes of the meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee held on January 24 and February 7, 1961.  
5. Review of continuing operating policies.  
a. It is not now the policy of the Committee to support any pattern 
of prices and yields in the Government securities market, and 
intervention in the Government securities market is solely to 
effectuate the objectives of monetary and credit policy (includ
ing correction of disorderly markets).  
b. Operations for the System Account in the open market, other than 
repurchase agreements, shall be confined to short-term securities 
(except in the correction of disorderly markets), and during a 
period of Treasury financing there shall be no purchases of 
(1) maturing issues for which an exchange is being offered, 
(2) when-issued securities, or (3) outstanding issues of compar
able maturities to those being offered for exchange; these 
policies to be followed until such time as they may be super
seded or modified by further action of the Federal Open Market 
Committee.

-2-
c, Transactions for the System Account in the open market shall be 
entered into solely for the purpose of providing or absorbing 
reserves (except in the correction of disorderly markets), and 
shall not include offsetting purchases and sales of securities 
for the purpose of altering the maturity pattern of the System's 
portfolio; such policy to be followed until such time as it may 
be superseded or modified by further action of the Federal Open 
Market Committee.  
6. Review of continuing authorities (see attached memorandum relating to 
this topic and copies of authorizations and resolutions referred to).  
a. Purchase and sale of cable transfers, bills of exchange, and 
bankers' acceptances payable in foreign currencies.  
b. Allocation of securities in System Open Market Account., 
c. Distribution of periodic reports prepared by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York for the Federal Open Market Committee, 
d. Authorization to Manager of System Account to engage in trans
actions on a cash as well as a regular delivery basis.  
e. Authorization to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to enter 
into repurchase agreements covering Government Securities.  
f. Authorization to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to purchase 
bankers' acceptances.  
g. Authorization of a charge on special short-term certificates of 
indebtedness purchased direct from the Treasury pursuant to 
paragraph (2) of the Committee's directive to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York at a rate of 1/4 of 1 per cent below the discount 
rate of that Bank at the time of such purchase.  
h. Authority for Chairman to appoint a Federal Reserve Bank as agent 
to operate the System Account temporarily in case the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York was unable to function, 
i. Resolution to provide for the continued operation of the Federal 
Open Market Committee during an emergency, 
j. Resolution authorizing certain actions by the Federal Reserve 
Banks during an emergency.  
k. Authorization to make available to System personnel assigned to 
High Point the foregoing resolutions relating to emergency 
operations.  
1. Resolution regarding a report of each examination of the System 
Open Market Account by the Board's examining force.  
7. Review of procedure for giving access to minutes and other records of 
the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum attached.) 
g._ Report of open market operations since the meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee on February 7, 1961, and action with respect to trans
actions during the period since similar action at the meeting on the 
same date.
9. Review of economic and credit outlook.

-3-
10. Discussion of: 
a. Open market operations.  
b. Other matters.  
11. a. Derivation of consensus.  
b. Record vote on policy indicated in consensus, 
c. General directive to be issued to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York covering transactions in the System Open Market 
Account. (See attached copy of directive issued at the 
meeting on February 7, 1961.) 
12. Initiation of publication of market statistics relating to Govern
ment securities transactions (see accompanying memorandum).  
13. Date and time for the next meeting of the Committee.
Attachments
