CONFID-ENTTAL FR) 
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Cominttee to be held on Tuesday,_March 1., 960 at 10:00 a.m.  
1. Advices of the election of the following members and alternate 
members of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year com
mencing March 1, 1960, have been received by the Secretary and 
it appears that they will be legally qualified to serve after 
they have executed their Oaths of Office: 
Member Alternate Member 
Alfred Hayes William F. Treiber 
Karl R. Bopp Hugh Leach 
Wilbur D. Fulton Carl E. Allen 
Malcolm Bryan Watrous H. Irons 
H. G. Leedy H. N. Mangels 
2. Llection of officers to serve until the election of their suc
cessors at the first meeting of the Committee after February 28, 
1961.  
a. Chairman, 
b. Vice Chairman.  
c. Secretary and Assistant Secretaries.  
d. General Counsel and Assistant General Counsel.  
e. Economist and Associate Economists.  
3. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for 
the System Open Market Account. Approval of the Manager of the 
Account.  
4, Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee held on February 9, 1960.  
5. Review of procedure for giving access to minutes and other records 
of the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum attached,)

-2-
6. Review of continuing authorities (see attached memorandum relating to this 
topic and copies of authorizations and resolutions referred to).  
a. Purchase and sale of cable transfers, bills of exchange, and bankers' 
acceptances payable in foreign currencies.  
b. Allocation of securities in System Open Market Account.  
c. Distribution of weekly open market report prepared by the Federal Re
serve Bank of New York.  
d. Authorization to Manager of System Account to engage in transactions 
on a cash as well as a regular delivery basis.  
e. Authorization to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to enter into 
repurchase agreements covering Government Securities.  
f. Authorization to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to purchase 
bankersi acceptances.  
g. Authorization of a charge on special short-term certificates of in
debtedness purchased direct from the Treasury pursuant to paragraph 
(2) of the Committee's directive to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York at a rate of 1/4 of 1 per cent below the discount rate of that 
Bank at the time of such purchase.  
h. Authority for Chairman to appoint a Federal Reserve Bank as agent to 
operate the System Account temporarily in case the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York was unable to function.  
i. Resolution to provide for the continued operation of the Federal Open 
Market Committee during an emergency.  
j. Resolution authorizing certain actions by the Federal Reserve Banks 
during an emergency.  
k. Authorization to make available to System personnel assigned to High 
Point the foregoing resolutions relating to emergency operations.  
1. Resolution regarding a report of each examination of the System Open 
Market Account by the Board's examining force.  
7. Review of continuing operating policies.  
a. It is not now the policy of the Committee to support any pattern of 
prices and yields in the Government securities market, and inter
vention in the Government securities market is solely to effectuate 
the objectives of monetary and credit policy (including correction 
of disorderly markets).  
b. Operations for the System Account in the open market, other than re
purchase agreements, shall be confined to short-term securities (ex
cept in the correction of disorderly markets), and during a period of 
Treasury financing there shall be no purchases of (1) maturing issues 
for which an exchange is being offered, (2) when-issued securities, or 
(3) outstanding issues of comparable maturities to those being offered 
for exchange; these policies to be followed until such time as they 
may be superseded or modified by further action of the Federal Open 
Market Committee, 
c. Transactions for the System Account in the open market shall be 
entered into solely for the purpose of providing or absorbing re
serves (except in the correction of disorderly markets), and shall 
not include offsetting purchases and sales of securities for the pur
pose of altering the maturity pattern of the System's portfolio; such 
policy to be followed until such time as it may be superseded or 
modified by further action of the Federal Open Market Committee.

-3-
g. Report of open market operatioris since the meeting of the Fed
eral Open Yarket Committee on February 9, 1960, and action with 
respect to transactions during the period since similar action 
at the meeting on the same date.  
9. Review of economic and credit outlook.  
10. Discussion of: 
a. Open market operations.  
b. Other matters.  
ll a. Derivation of consensus.  
b. Record vote on policy indicated in consensus.  
c. General directive to be issued to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York covering transactions in the System Open Market 
Account. (See attached copy of directive issued at the 
meeting on February 9, 1960.) 
12. Date and time for the next meeting of the Committee.
Attachments
