AGENDA
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE
Tuesday, March 15, 1977
9:30 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and
alternate members of the Federal Open Market Committee
for the year commencing March 1, 1977, have been received
by the Secretary and the named individuals have executed
their oaths of office:
Member Alternate
 Frank E. Morris David P. Eastburn
Paul A. Volcker Thomas M. Timlen
Robert P. Mayo Willis J. Winn
Lawrence K. Roos Ernest T. Baughman
James R. Guffey John J. Balles
 1. Election of officers to serve until the election of
their successors at the first meeting of the Committee
after February 28, 1978:
A. Chairman
B. Vice Chairman
C. Staff officers
 2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute
transactions for the System Open Market Account.
 3. Selection of (a) Manager of System Open Market Account,
(b) Deputy Manager for Domestic Operations, and (c)
Deputy Manager for Foreign Operations.
 4. Approval of minutes of actions taken at the meeting
of the Federal Open Market Committee on February 15,
1977.

-2 -
5. Foreign currency operations.
A. Report on foreign currency operations since the
meeting of the Committee on February 15, 1977.
 B. Action to approve, ratify, and confirm transactions
since the previous meeting.
 C. Consideration of Manager's recommendations with
respect to foreign currency operations.
6. Economic and financial situation and outlook.
A. Staff comments.
B. General Committee discussion.
7. Domestic open market operations.
A. Report on open market operations since the
meeting of the Committee on February 15, 1977.
 B. Action to approve, ratify, and confirm transactions
since the previous meeting.
C. Comments by Economist (Domestic Finance) on
prospective financial relationships.
  8. Current monetary policy and domestic policy directive
to be issued to Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
(Copy of February 15, 1977, directive attached.)

-3 -
 9. Review of authority for lending securities from
System Open Market Account. (See memoranda from
System Account Manager and General Counsel to be
distributed.)
 
 
 10. Discussion of report of Subcommittee on Bankers
Acceptances,(to be distributed.)
 11. Review of authorization for domestic open market
operations. (Copy attached.)
 12.
 13.Review of (a) authorization for foreign currency
operations, (b) foreign currency directive, (c)
procedural instructions, and (d) special authorization.
(Copies attached.)
Confirmation of date for next meeting. (Tuesday,
April 19, 1977.)
