CONFIDENTIAL (FR)
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee to be held on Tuesday, March 9, 1971, at 9:30 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members
of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing March 1,
1971, have been received by the Secretary and the named individuals
have executed their oaths of office:
Member
Frank E. Morris
Alfred Hayes
Monroe Kimbrel
Robert P. Mayo
George H. ClayAlternate Member
David P. Eastburn
William F. Treiber
Philip E. Coldwell
(President of the
Cleveland Bank)
Eliot J. Swan
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors
at the first meeting of the Committee after February 29, 1972:
Chairman
Vice Chairman
Staff officers
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the
System Open Market Account
3. Selection of (a) Manager of the System Open Market Account, and (b)
Special Manager for foreign currency operations for such Account.
4. Approval of minutes of actions taken at the meeting of the Federal
Open Market Committee on February 9, 1971.
5. Acceptance of memoranda of discussion for the meetings of the Federal
Open Market Committee held on January 12 and February 9, 1971.
6. Acceptance of reports of audit of System Open Market Account and
foreign currency transactions made by the Board's Division of
Federal Reserve Bank Operations as at the close of business on
September 25, 1970, and transmitted by Mr. Schaeffer, Chief Federal
Reserve Examiner.

-2-
7. Review of procedure for granting access to minutes and other
records of the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum
attached.)
8. Semi-annual review of authority to lend securities from System
Open Market Account. (See forthcoming memorandum from Manager.)
9. Review of continuing authority directive with respect to domestic
open market operations. (Copy attached.)
10. Review of (a) authorization for System foreign currency operations
and (b) foreign currency directive. (Copies attached.)
11. Foreign currency operations.
A. Report by Special Manager on foreign currency operations since
the meeting of the Committee on February 9, 1971; and action
with respect to transactions during that period.
B. Other reports on foreign meetings.
C. Consideration of recommendations of Special Manager.
12. Economic and financial situation and outlook.
A. Staff reports.
B. General Committee discussion.
13. Domestic open market operations.
A. Report by Manager on open market operations since the meeting
of the Committee on February 9, 1971; and action with respect
to transactions during that period.
B. Staff comments on the monetary relationships described in
blue book.

-3-
14. Discussion of monetary policy and of current economic policy
directive to be issued to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
(Copy of February 9, 1971, directive attached.)
15. Confirmation of date for next meeting (April 6, 1971).
Attachments
