AGENDA
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE
Tuesday, March 26, 1985 at 9:00 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members of
the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing March 1, 1985,
have been received by the Secretariat and the named individuals have executed
their oaths of office* as indicated below:
Member
E. Gerald Corrigan
Robert P. Black
Silas Keehn
Robert P. Forrestal
John J. BallesAlternate Member
Thomas M. Timlen *
Frank E. Morris
Karen N. Horn
Robert H. Boykin
Roger Guffey
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors
at the first meeting of the Committee after February 28, 1986.
Chairman
Vice Chairman
Staff officers
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the
System Open Market Account.
3. Selection of (a) Manager for Domestic Operations and (b) Manager for
Foreign Operations, System Open Market Account.
4. Review of (a) foreign currency authorization, (b) foreign currency
directive and (c) procedural instructions with respect to foreign
currency operations. (Copies attached.)
* Mr. Timlen is currently out of the country and will execute his oath
of office upon his return.

5. Review of authorization for domestic open market operations, including
proposal by Manager for Domestic Operations to increase intermeeting
limit on changes in System Account holdings of securities. (Memorandum
from Mr. Sternlight, dated March 15, 1985).
6. Approval of minutes of actions taken at the meeting of the Federal
Open Market Committee on February 12-13, 1985.
7. Foreign currency operations.
A. Report on operations since February meeting.
B. Action to ratify transactions since February meeting.
8. Domestic open market operations.
A. Report on operations since February meeting.
B. Action to ratify transactions since February meeting.
9. Staff report on economic situation.
10. Committee discussion of economic situation and policy implications.
11. Current monetary policy and domestic policy directive.
A. Comments by Staff Director.
B. Committee discussion.
C. Action to adopt policy directive.
12. Confirmation of date for next meeting (Tuesday, May 21, 1985).
