FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE
Tuesday, February 2, 1993 at 2:30 p.m.
and continuing on
Wednesday, February 3, 1993 at 9:00 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members
of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing January 1,
1993, have been received by the Secretariat, and these individuals have
executed their oaths of office.
Members Alternate Members
E. Gerald Corrigan James H. Oltman
Edward G. Boehne J. Alfred Broaddus, Jr.
Silas Keehn Jerry L. Jordan
Robert D. McTeer, Jr. Robert P. Forrestal
Gary H. Stern Robert T. Parry
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their successors
at the first meeting of the Committee after December 31, 1993.
A. Chairman
B. Vice Chairman
C. Staff officers
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions for the
System Open Market Account.
3. Selection of (a) Manager of the System Open Market Account,
(b) Deputy Manager for Domestic Operations, and (c) Deputy Manager
for Foreign Operations.
4. Review of authorization for domestic open market operations.
5. Review of (a) foreign currency authorization, (b) foreign currency
directive and (c) procedural instructions with respect to foreign
currency operations, including review of "warehousing" authority
incorporated in (a) and (b). (Memorandum from Mr. Gillum on
updating the Managers' titles in the foreign currency authorization
and the procedural instructions and memorandum from Mr. Truman on
"warehousing," distributed January 27, 1993.)
6. Acceptance of Report of Examination of the System Open Market
Account (distributed January 25, 1993).

7. Approval of minutes of actions taken at the meeting of the
Federal Open Market Committee on December 22, 1992.
8. Foreign currency operations.
A. Report on operations since the meeting on December 22, 1992.
B. Action to ratify transactions, if any, since December meeting.
9. Domestic open market operations.
A. Report on operations since the meeting on December 22, 1992.
B. Action to ratify transactions since December meeting.
10. Economic situation.
A. Staff report on economic situation (Chart Show)
B. Committee discussion.
11. Longer-run ranges for monetary aggregates.
A. Staff comments
B. Committee discussion and action on ranges for 1993.
12. Current monetary policy and domestic policy directive.
A. Staff comments.
B. Committee discussion.
C. Action to adopt directive.
13. Preliminary discussion of proposed Subcommittee report on the
release of confidential FOMC information. (Memorandum to be
distributed.)
14. Confirmation of date for next meeting (Tuesday, March 23, 1993)
