CONFIDENTIAL (FR)
Matters for consideration at the meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee to be held on Monday and Tuesday. March 18-19. 1974
Advices of the election of the following members and alternate members
of the Federal Open Market Committee for the year commencing March 1,
1974, have been received by the Secretary and the named individuals
have executed their oaths of office:
Member
Robert
Alfred
Willis
Monroe
GeorgeP. Black
Hayes
J. Winn
Kimbrel
H. ClayAlternate Member
Frank E. Morris
Richard A. Debs
Robert P. Mayo
Philip E. Coldwell
Bruce K. MacLaury
Monday, 4:00 p.m.
1. Election of officers to serve until the election of their
successors at the first meeting of the Committee after
February 28, 1975:
A. Chairman
B. Vice Chairman
C. Staff Officers
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to execute transactions
for the System Open Market Account.
3. Selection of (a) Manager and
Open Market Account, and (b)
currency operations for suchDeputy Manager of the System
Special Manager for foreign
Account.
4. Review of procedure for granting access to minutes and other
records of the Federal Open Market Committee. (Memorandum attached.)

5. Review of authorization for domestic open market operations.
(Copy attached.)
a. Discussion of staff committee report distributed on
January 30, 1974, entitled "Recommendations on Desk
Operations in Bankers' Acceptances."
b. Discussion of memorandum from System Account Manager,
dated March 11, 1974, entitled "System Purchases of
Federal Financing Bank Securities."
c. Discussion of memorandum from System Account Manager,
dated March 11, 1974, entitled "Recommended changes in
paragraph 1(a) of authorization for domestic open
market operations."
d. Discussion of memorandum from General Counsel, dated
March 8, 1974, entitled "Status of paragraph 2 of
authorization for domestic open market operations."
e. Review of authority for lending securities from System
Open Market Account under paragraph 3 of domestic authorization.
(See forthcoming memoranda from System Account Manager and
General Counsel.)
f. Preliminary discussion of memorandum from System Account
Manager distributed on March 11, 1974, entitled "Proposed
expansion of authority to lend securities from System Open
Market Account." (See also memoranda from Board Staff and
General Counsel, distributed on same date.)
6. Review of (a) authorization for foreign currency operations and
(b) foreign currency directive. (Copies attached.)
