  
 
 
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass III FOMC – Internal (FR) 
A G E N D A 
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE 
Tuesday, January 28, 2014, at 2:00 p.m.   
and continuing on 
Wednesday, January 29,  2014, at 9:00 a.m. 
Advices of the election of the following memb ers and alternate members of the Federal 
Open Market Committee for a term commen cing January 28, 2014, have been received 
by the Secretariat, and these individuals have executed their oaths of office. 
Members Alternate Members 
William C. Dudley Christine Cumming 
Sandra Pianalto Charles L. Evans 
Charles I. Plosser Jeffrey M. Lacker 
Richard W. Fisher Dennis P. Lockhart 
Narayana Kocherlakota John C. Williams 
1. Election of Committee officers. 
A. Chairman 
B. Vice Chairman 
C. Staff officers 
2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank to ex ecute transactions for the System Open 
Market Account. 
3. Proposed revisions to the Aut horization for Domestic Open Market Operations.  (See 
forthcoming memo.) 
4. Proposed revisions to the Authorization fo r Foreign Currency Operations, the Foreign 
Currency Directive, and the Procedural Inst ructions with Respect to Foreign Currency 
Operations.  (See forthcoming memo.) 
5. Proposed revisions to the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy 
Strategy.  (See forthcoming memo.) 
6. Proposed revisions to the Rules of Procedur e, and the Program for Security of FOMC 
Information.  (See forthcoming memo.) 
- 1 -
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
Authorized for Public ReleaseClass III FOMC – Internal (FR) 
7. Selection of a Manager and Deputy Manager of the System Open Market Account.  
(See forthcoming memo.) 
8. Financial developments and open market operations. 
A. Staff report on market developments and operations.  
B. Action on proposal regarding exercise s for overnight reverse repurchase 
agreements.  (See forthcoming memo.) 
C. Action to ratify the open market trans actions for the System account since the 
December meeting. 
9. Economic situation. A. Staff report. 
B. Committee discussion. 
10. Current monetary policy. 
A. Staff comments. 
B. Committee discussion. 
C. Action to adopt directive and statement. 
11. Confirmation of the date for the next meeting (Tuesday-Wednesday, March 18-19, 
2014).   
- 2 - 