AGENDA
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE
Tuesday, March 21, 1978
9:00 a.m.
Advices of the election of the following members and
alternate members of the Federal Open Market Committee
for the year commencing March 1, 1978, have been received
by the Secretary and the named individuals have executed
their oaths of office:
Member Alternate
 David P. Eastburn Robert P. Black
Paul A. Volcker Thomas M. Timlen
Willis J. Winn Robert P. Mayo
Ernest T. Baughman Monroe Kimbrel
Mark H. Willes John J. Balles
 1. Election of officers to serve until the election of
their successors at the first meeting of the Committee
after February 28, 1979:
A. Chairman
B. Vice Chairman
C. Staff officers
 2. Selection of a Federal Reserve Bank of execute trans-
actions for the System Open Market Account.
 3. Selection of (a) Manager of System Open Market Account,
(b) Deputy Manager for Domestic Operations, and (c)
Deputy Manager for Foreign Operations.
 4. Approval of minutes of actions taken at the meetings
of the Federal Open Market Committee on February 28,
and March 10, 1978.

-2 -
5. Foreign currency operations.
A. Report on foreign currency operations since the
meeting of the Committee on February 28, 1978.
 B. Action to ratify transactions since the previous
meeting.
 C. Consideration of Manager's recommendations with
respect to foreign currency operations.
D. Report of ad hoc subcommittee on certain foreign
currency matters.
6. Economic and financial situation and outlook.
A. Staff comments.
B. General Committee discussion.
7. Domestic open market operations.
A. Report on open market operations since the meeting
of the Committee on February 28, 1978.
 B. Action to ratify transactions since the previous
meeting
C. Comments by Economist on prospective financial
relationships.
 8. Current monetary policy and domestic policy directive
to be issued to Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
(Copy of February 28, 1978, directive attached.)

-3 -
 9. Review of authority for lending securities from System
Open Market Account. (See forthcoming memoranda from
System Account Manager and General Counsel.)
 10. Review of authorization for domestic open market
operations. (Copy attached.)
 11. Review of agreement to "warehouse" currencies for the
Exchange Stabilization Fund. (See forthcoming
memorandum from Mr. Truman.)
 12. Review of (a) authorization for foreign currency
operations, (b) foreign currency directive, and (c)
special authorization. (Copies attached.)
 13. Confirmation of date for next meeting. (Tuesday,
April 18, 1978.)
