 
Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most complete and accurate version 
available based on original copies culled from  the files of the FOMC Secretariat at the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserv e System.  This electronic document was 
created through a comprehensiv e digitization process which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned versions 
text-searchable.2  Though a stringent quality assurance process was employed, some 
imperfections may remain.  
Please note that this document may contain occasional gaps in the text.  These 
gaps are the result of a re daction process that removed information obtained on a 
confidential basis.  All redact ed passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable 
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.    
 
                                                
 
1 In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic format.  All 
scanned images were deskewed (to remove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced tilting) and lightly 
cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other blemishes caused after initial 
printing). 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optimal character recognition computer program (OCR) first 
created electronic text from the document image.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.   Please note that the numbers and text in charts and tables were not 
reliably recognized by the OCR process and we re not checked or corrected by staff. 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                December 4, 2002
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                   December 4, 2002
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developm ents
Overview 
The pace of economic activity  slowed  in mid-summer and has remained 
sluggish, on balance, since then. Althoug h housing  demand has remained 
strong , business fix ed investment has continued to lang uish and consumer 
spending  on motor vehicles has been we ll below its summe r level. Consumption 
outside motor vehicles also flag ged in the late summer, thoug h spending  turned 
up in October and early  reading s on spendi ng in November have been reasonably 
favorable. Payroll empl oyment remained flat and industrial production 
continued to fall throug h Oc tober. Most major price series show declines in 
inflation over the past y ear. 
Labor Mark ets 
Labor demand remains tepi d. Private nonfarm pay roll employ ment edg ed down 
again in Oc tober and ha s changed little , on ne t, sinc e July. Employ ment in 
manufacturing  and related i ndustries has remained espe cially  weak. Aggregate 
hours of production or nonsupervisory  worker s also fell in October, nearly  back 
to their J uly level. In the household survey , the unemploy ment rate edg ed up 
0.1 percentag e point in October to 5.7 pe rcent, the same as its third-quarter 
averag e. 
The movements in pay roll employ ment and the  unemploy ment rate since the 
spring  appear to be sending  different  signals about labor market conditions. 
Payroll employ ment rose an averag e of only  0.03 percent per month between 
June and October. Such a small in crease in pay rolls normally  would be 
associated with a  slight inc rease in the  unemploy ment rate, but the 
unemploy ment rate instead fell 0.2 pe rcentag e point over this period. 
Interesting ly, simila r departures from the  average histor ical relationship oc curred 
after each of the four previous r ecessions. Althoug h we lack a g ood 
understanding  of the reasons for this pa ttern, we continue to put a g ood deal 
more weig ht on the sig nal from pay roll employ ment. That measure traditionally 
has been the more reliable indicator of  cyclical developments in the labor 
market, and, in the current instance,  the relative weakness of pay roll 
employ ment has been more consiste nt with other information, which, on 
balance, has depicted stag nant demand for workers. 
Recent indicators g enerally  have pointed  to continued slug gishness, althoug h 
most appear a bi t brighter than t hey did a month ag o. Using  seasonal adjustment 
factors calculated without data fro m the post-September 2001 period, initial 
claims for unemploy ment insurance averag ed 401,000 per week over the four 
weeks ended 
II-2
II-3

II-4
II-5
November 23.1 This was down 30,000 from late October but still 30,000 hig her 
than the lows of the summer. At 3.62 million (for the week ended November 
16), the level of insur ed une mploy ment adjuste d using  the alternative seasonal 
factors also stands above its summer lows  but has been falling  in recent weeks. 
Among recent  survey  evidence, a sm all increase i n first-quart er hiring plans was 
reported both in Manpower’s quarterly  survey  of employ ers and in the National 
Federation of I ndependent Businesses’ poll of small businesses in October. 
Furthermore, households’ expectations for future employ ment conditions 
improved slig htly in both the Conference B oard survey  and the Michig an survey 
in November. On the neg ative side, lay off announcements as tracked by 
Challeng er remained hig h in November . In addition, the Conference B oard’s 
index  of help-wanted adver tising  edged down in October, and the org anization’s 
survey  of job availability  as perceive d by households weakened in November. 
According  to the report on productivity  and costs released December 4, 
productivity  in the nonfarm business sector rose at an annual rate of 5.1 percent 
in the third quarter of 2002. Over the four quarters ended in 2002:Q3, 
productivity  is now estimated to have advanced 5.6 per cent, the larg est four-
quarter increase since 1973. The B LS repor t also included the first estimate of 
output per hour for 
Output per Hour
(Percent chang e from  preceding  period at com pound annual rate;
based on seasonally  adjusted data)
Sector 20001 20011 2001 2002 
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 
Nonfarm  businesses 
All persons2 2.1 1.9 2.1 7.3 8.6 1.7  5.1 
All em ployees 1.7 2.0 2.0 7.6 7.3 1.7  6.5 
Nonfinancial corporations3,4 3.3 3.3 3.2 10.8 4.6 5.8  5.7 
1. Change is from fourth quarter of  the precedin g year to f ourth quarter of  the year shown. 
2. Includes non-employees (p ublished definition). 
3. The nonfinancial corporate s ector con sists of all co rporations doing business in the Un ited 
States  with the exception  of banks, stock and com modity  brok ers, and finance an d insurance 
companies. The sector accou nts for abou t two-thirds of business employment. 
4. Historical data for nonfinancial corporat ions were rev ised back  to 1999. 
1. On a pu blished bas is, claims averaged 386,000. However, the seasonal adjustment of 
these dat a appears  to have been  distorted by the inclusion of the sharp in creas e in claim s after th e 
events of September 11, 2001, i n the calculation of this year’s seasonal factors. These alternative 
seasonal factors  remove the influence of  that period. 
II-6
II-7
nonfinancial corporations for the thir d quarter of 2002. Productivity  in this 
sector rose at an annual rate of 5.7 pe rcent last quarter and has advanced 6.7 
percent over the four quarters ended 2002:Q3. 
Motor Veh icles 
Recent swing s in motor vehicle sales and production have st rongly influenced 
the incoming  data on ag gregate economic  activity . Althoug h sales of lig ht 
vehicles moved up to an annual rate  of 15.9 million units in November, this 
increase onl y partially retraced t he large decl ines in September and Oct ober. 
Sales have averag ed 15.6 million units th rough the first two months of this 
quarter, 2 million units lower than the ex ceptionally  strong  pace in the third 
quarter. The fall in demand reflects both higher effect ive pri ces and a pay back 
from the surg e in demand in the summer, when consumers likely  broug ht 
forward their purchases to take advant age of unusually  generous incentive deals 
that they viewed as t emporary . 
Accordi ng to J.D. P ower and Associ ates, the averag e val ue of cust omer 
incentives per vehicle in September and October was well below the record hig h 
posted last Aug ust. More of the vehi cles sold were 2003 models, on which the 
incentives were less g enerous than on the 2002 leftovers. As a result, the 
consumer price index  for new vehicles jumped 0.5 percent in September and 
0.4 percent in October, reversing  nearly all of its declines earlier this y ear.2 In 
November, however, incentives appear to  have edg ed up ag ain. Althoug h the 
decline in incentives in recent months  has eroded consumer s’ positive attitudes 
towa rd car-buying a bit, se ntime nt remained very positive  in Nove mber, with 
much of the optimism still attributed to low financing  rates and g ood buy s. 
Responding  to the recent softening  in sa les, automakers re duced assemblies in 
September and October. The available weekly  data for November sug gest that 
production for the month stepped up noticeably  to a rate hig her than automakers 
announced schedules at the beg inning of the month. However, industry 
schedules for December show production dr opping  back to near October’s rate. 
All told, production in the fourth quarter  is currently  scheduled to averag e 
12.5 million units at an annual rate, dow n about ½ million units from the third-
quart er pace. If realized, such a decl ine in out put woul d directly reduce t he 
chang e in total industrial production in the fourth quarter by  more than 1 
percentag e point (annual rate ); the indirect effect of this reduction on products 
such as tires and stamping s 
2. The CPI for new vehicles does not capture financing incentives. However, consum ers 
typically  are g iven the option  to receiv e a cas h rebate in  lieu of the financing incentives, and in 
such cases, the BLS incorporates  the effect of  the cas h rebate in to the CPI regardles s of which 
altern ative the con sumer ch ose. 
II-8
might reduce fourth-quarter I P growth  by a similar amount. After allowing for 
associated chang es outside the industrial sector such as sales and transportation 
costs, and allowing  for differences in seasonal adjustment, the scheduled 
reduction in motor vehicle production would reduce fourth-quarter GDP g rowth 
by nearly  1-1/4 percentag e points.3 
Produc tion of D omestic Autos and Tr ucks 
(Millions of units at an annual rate except as noted; FR B seasonal basis) 
Item 2002 2002 
Q2 Q3 Q41 Sept. Oct. Nov. 1 Dec.1 
U.S. production 12.4 13.0 12.5 12.8 12.1 13.0 12.3 
Autos  5.2  5.1  5.0  4.9  4.8  5.2  5.0 
Trucks  7.2  7.8  7.5  7.9  7.3  7.8  7.3 
Total day s’ supply2 61.1  56.1  n.a.  62.5  69.2  n.a  n.a. 
Inventories3 2.61  2.61  n.a.  2.61  2.79  n.a.  n.a. 
Note. C omponents may not sum to totals  becau se of rounding. 
1. Production rates ref lect W ard’s Communicatio ns’ lates t estimates for Q4, Nov ember, an d 
Decem ber. 
2. Qu arterly  average calcu lated u sing end-of-period s tocks and average reported s ales. 
3. En d-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy trucks (classes 3-8). 
n.a. Not av ailable. 
Even this reduced level of  assemblies has been runni ng well ahead of sales. 
According ly, inventories of lig ht vehi cles have moved up sharply  in the last 
three months. Stocks increased mo re than 300,000 units in September and 
October (not at an annual rate), while day s’ supply  jumped to 69 day s, somewhat 
above the targ et level of about 65 day s. Assuming  that sales remain near their 
November pace, the automakers’ producti on schedules imply  that inventories 
will rise further throug h year-end. As a re sult, the automakers are faced with the 
choice of cutting  production, lowering  prices, or both. When faced with ex cess 
inventories at this time  of the year, manufacturers have often reduced assemblie s 
by extending  the duration of reg ularly scheduled holiday  shutdowns. Reports 
from industry  contacts sug gest that simila r plans are under discussion this y ear. 
If such pl ans are i mplemented, the asse mbly  rate would drop further in early 
2003. 
3. The BEA’s seasonal factors  for motor vehicle produ ction  do n ot appear to accou nt for an 
additional holiday in this year’s UAW contract. As a resu lt, the fourth-quarter n ational income 
and produ ct accou nts are lik ely to ov erstate th e extent of the slowdown in motor vehicle 
assemblies. 
II-9
Indust rial P roduc tion 
Industrial production dropped 0.8 percent in October af ter having  moved down 
0.2 percent in each of the preceding  two months.4 Roug hly half of the October 
decline was due  to the  reduction in moto r vehi cle assem blies and related parts 
production. Aside from the jump in mo tor vehicle assemblies in November, 
available phy sical product data  retraced only  a little of th eir October decline, and 
related indicators sug gest that th e industrial sector remains weak. 
Conditions in the hig h-tech sector have  been mix ed. Computer production has 
risen 1-3/4 percent per month on averag e over the past four months, supported 
by ongoing streng th in demand for notebook computers and a recent spurt in 
sales of mainframes. On the other hand, the recent increases in the output of 
desktop PCs have been modest, and Da taquest expects that unit sa les will 
contract in the fourth quarter. Indus try analy sts report that businesses have 
slowed t he rat e at which they are repl acing their PCs in light of their reluctance 
to commit ne w capital generally and the  perception of  many firms that there are 
no new software applications  demanding  an upg rade in  hardware. The relative 
weakness i n the personal  com puter subsect or is also evi dent in the recent  slide in 
shipments of microprocessor units (MPU s) and the weak outlook for I ntel’s 
revenue in the fourth quarter. The output of semiconductors other than MPUs 
has continued to increase but at a slower pace. Production earlier in the y ear was 
supported by  strong  demand from manufact urers of cell phones for dig ital sig nal 
processors and flash memory  chips, but  the outlook for worldwide sales of cell 
phones has recently  been marked down. Althoug h shipments have not y et 
turned down, orders for equipmen t to manufacture semiconductors have 
plummeted. Furthermore, the producti on of communications equipment fell 1.8 
percent in October after having  decr eased 1 percent in September, and no 
indications of a pickup in demand are in the offing . 
Outside of the motor vehicles and part s and hig h-tech industries, manufacturing 
production edg ed lower in Aug ust and c ontracted 0.4 percent in both September 
and Oct ober. Some of the recent  pullback i n this broad cat egory (represent ing 
85 percent of total manufacturing ) reflect s decreases in the production of motor 
vehicle supplies, such as eng ines, stam pings, and orig inal-equipment tires that 
are not counted as part of the motor vehicles and parts industry .5 Even so, 
production declines were widespread and were especially  pronounced among 
manufacturers of business equipment and, to a lesser ex tent, producers of 
materials. 
4. On Decem ber 5, revised and rebenchmarked production figures will be released . With 
that release, in dustries w ill be defined on a NA ICS b asis in stead  of the current SIC f ormulation. 
5. One effect o f the switch from SIC to  NAICS is th at sig nificantly more of these su ppliers 
to the motor vehicle in dustry will be assig ned to the motor vehicles p arts in dustry rather than to 
other scattered manufacturing industries. 
II-10
II-11
II-12
II-13
Indicators of future activity  in the indus trial sector do not y et provide sig ns of 
recovery . In October, the staff’s seri es on real adjusted durable g oods orders 
retraced part  of its steep decl ines duri ng the previ ous t wo months. This series is 
volatile, howe ver, and the  three-month moving  average of real orders fell. The 
diffusion index  of new orders from the Institute of Supply  Manag ement 
ratcheted down in J uly and has hovered around 50 sinc e then, a level roug hly 
consiste nt with a  flat path of orders; this sa me pattern is e vident in the  regional 
purchasing  manag ers index es. In addition, the staff’s series on announced 
manufacturing  layoffs fell in  November, thoug h it remain ed above its levels of 
the summe r. 
New  Orders for Du rable Good s 
(Percent chang e from  preceding  period ex cept as noted; seasonally  adjusted) 
Com ponent Share, 
2001: 
H1 
(percent) 2002 
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct. 
Total orders 100.0 -.4 2.9 -1.1 -4.6 2.4 
Adjusted orders1 76.2 .7 1.4 -4.6 -3.6 5.0 
Com puters -5.0 9.9 -.1 9.2 -1.3 
Com munication equipm ent 4.1 -3.3 -21.2 -8.7 -42.3 71.3 
Other capital g oods 24.5 2.4 1.1 -.7 -2.1 2.2 
Other2 43.1 .5 2.4 -6.7 -3.1 4.6 
MEMO 
Real adj usted orders  . . . 1.0 1.7 -4.7 -3.9 4.8 
Excluding  high tech  . . . 1.0 1.4 -5.0 -4.3 4.0 4.5 
1. Orders excluding defense capi tal goods , nondefense aircraf t, and motor vehicle part s. 
2. Primary metals, most fabricated m etals, most stone, clay , and glass produ cts, 
household appl iances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods . 
. . . Not applicable. 
Consum er Spending 
The pace of consum er spendi ng has been qui te sluggish in recent  months aft er 
brisk g ains earlier in the  third qua rter. Much of the earlier streng th and current 
weakness is a ttributa ble to la rge swing s in spending  on motor vehicles. Apart 
from  motor vehi cles, P CE soft ened in Aug ust and September following 
noticeable increases in J une and J uly, but it rose a solid 0.3 percent in October. 
The October g ain in real outlay s excluding  motor vehicles was supported by  a 
pickup in spending  on nondurable g oods, which reversed its decline of the 
preceding  two months. More recently , the volatile data on weekly  chain store 
sales have been consistent with mode st inc reases in retail spending  in November 
II-14
II-15
II-16
and sug gest a reasonably  upbeat beg inning  to the holiday  shopping  season over 
the Thanksg iving weekend. Spending  on services has been comparatively  steady 
and advanced a modest 0.2 percent in bot h September and Oct ober, about equal 
to the averag e rate of increase so far t his year. 
Advances in real disposable personal inco me have slowed subs tantially since the 
first quarter, when tax  cuts provided a sizable boost to households’ income. 
Abstr acting from ta x cuts, g ains in inc ome have been mode rate for most of  this 
year. In October, real DPI  was flat, re flecting  that month’s decline in pay roll 
hours. The saving  rate this y ear has remained well above its averag e over the 
preceding  several y ears, cons istent with the erosion in household wealth since 
early  2000. 
Accordi ng to bot h the Mi chigan and Conference B oard index es, consumer 
confi dence t urned up i n Novem ber aft er havi ng reached i ts lowest  level since 
1993 in the previous month. An improved outlook for business conditions 
accounted for most of the g ain; house holds’ ex pectations for labor market 
condi tions over t he com ing year al so improved not iceabl y. By cont rast, the 
current conditions portions of the inde xes remained quite  low in Nove mber. 
Housing 
On the whole, residential investment ha s held up well this y ear. Althoug h the 
multif amily sector weakened some what at the beginning  of the fourth qua rter, 
activity  in the  sing le-family sector remained strong. 
Even thoug h sing le-family  housing  starts were down 7 percent from their 
extraordinary  level in September, th e October pace of 1.35 million units matched 
the averag e rate seen duri ng the first three quart ers of t he year. Furtherm ore, 
unusually  wet weather across much of the c ountry  probably  restrained starts a bit 
in October. Permit issuance for sing le-family  construction—a djusted for activity 
in areas where permits are not required—was  above starts in October, sug gesting 
that homebuilding  will continue at a vig orous pace throug h the end of the y ear. 
New and ex isting  home sales continued to  be buoy ant in October. Sales of 
existing  homes increased about 1 percen t to an annual rate of 5.63 million units 
(using  staff seasonal factors).6 New home sales in October came off their 
September hig h, but the 1.01 million unit annual pace of sa les was still very 
strong . 
6. On a pu blished bas is, sales of existing homes moved up abou t 6 percen t in October t o an 
annua l rate of 5.77 million units.  Unlike  the publishe d seasonal factors, the staff’s p rocedure 
accou nts for tradin g-day variation 
II-17
II-18
II-19
We believe that the robust pace of c onstruction is roug hly consistent with 
prevailing  fundamentals. Most important, mortg age rates have remained near 
their lowe st levels in mor e than thir ty years. The average rate on a  thirty-year 
fixed-rate mortg age stood at 6.1 percen t in late November, and the averag e 
initial rate on a thirty -year adjustab le-rate mortg age was 4.2 percent. 
Households’ assessments of homebuy ing conditions stay ed quite favorable in 
November, and the Mortg age Bankers ’ Association’s index  of mortg age 
applications for t he purchase of a home remained solid. 
The continued strong  demand for housin g has helped produce larg e gains in 
house prices, althoug h the various price m easures have sent different sig nals as 
to whet her the pace of i ncrease has m oderat ed. Prices for ex isting hom es, as 
measured by  the repeat -sales pri ce index , have decel erated significantly during 
the past y ear. This measure of house prices rose 5-1/2 percent over the four 
quarters ended in 2002:Q3, down from 8-3/ 4 percent over the comparable period 
four quarters earlier.7 By contrast, no underly ing trend is discernible from the 
volatile pattern of quality-adjuste d prices for new home s. 
In the multifamily  sector, starts fell 30 pe rcent in October to  an annual rate of 
250,000 units, the slowest pace in almost si x years. Apartment vacancy  rates 
have increased sig nificantly , on balan ce, during  the past y ear, and anecdotes 
suggest that the demand for apartment space has been hurt by  the booming 
performance of the sing le-family market. Howe ver, the ratio of  new multif amily 
permits to starts in Oct ober was well above the historical averag e, sug gesting 
that starts in this sect or may  rebound in November. 
Equipm ent and Soft ware 
Real outlay s for equipment and software  advanced mode rately in the  third 
quart er; increases were post ed for al l major spendi ng categories except aircraft , 
where ex penditures fell sharply . Howeve r, the last few months’ data on orders 
and shipments of capital g oods have been somewhat weaker, on balance. In 
particular, new orders and shipments of nondefense capital g oods ex cluding 
aircraft dropped in Aug ust and Septembe r, and despite an upturn in October, 
new orders and shipments remained below the ir July levels. The weaker 
trajectory for equi pment and soft ware i n recent  months is consi stent with the 
rather downbeat anecdotal reports fro m businesses themselves. Indeed, 
investment spending  appear s to be somewhat worse than would be predicted by 
the fundamental determinants of busine ss investment, such as the g rowth of 
business output and real corporate cash flow. 
7. The simple average price of  existing homes sold in October w as up 11-1/2 percen t from a 
year earlier an d has not decelerated at all. 
II-20
II-21
II-22
II-23
In the hig h-tech sector, nominal ship ments of computing  equipment jumped 
markedly  in October, but shipment s of communications equipment dropped 
again. Even thoug h domestic shipment s of communications equipment have 
continued to trend down this y ear, real  spending  on communications equipment 
edged up in the first three quarters of th is year, a move reflecting  surprising ly 
robust imports and, to a le sser ex tent, falling  prices.8 Outside of the hig h-tech 
sector, shi pments rose at  a modest  pace i n Oct ober, wi th general ly small 
increases i n most subcat egories. New orders in this broa d-based sector also 
moved up, led by  double-dig it gains in construction equipm ent and industrial 
machinery . Nevertheless, new orders ha ve continued to run substa ntially below 
shipments, indicating  that producers c ontinued to draw down their backlog  of 
unfilled orders. 
Business demand for motor vehicles has cooled, on balance, since the summer. 
Fleet sales of lig ht vehicles edg ed dow n in September and October (based on 
confidential data), and some  of the decline in retail sales like ly reflects softer 
demand from business customers. Howeve r, sales of medium and heavy  trucks 
have held up thus far. Demand for heav y (class 8) trucks ha s been supported for 
several months by  a desire to purchase vehicles with eng ines produced under old 
EPA emissions reg ulations. New rules that took effect October 1 set tig hter 
emissions st andards and are ant icipated to result in hig her operating costs. 
However, the new rules allow eng ines produ ced before October 1 to be installed 
even after that date, and industry  analy sts indicate that most trucks assembled in 
November and early  December will be fitted with old-rule  engines. As a result, 
while we cont inue t o ant icipate a pay back for t he surg e in purchases precedi ng 
October 1, we now ex pect that pay back to oc cur mainly in the  first qua rter. 
After having  plung ed in September, net new orders for medium  trucks (classes 5 
to 7), which are not subject to the new EPA reg ulations, rebounded in October, 
and the three-month moving  averag e of new orders moved up slig htly. 
Nonresidential Con struction 
Nominal nonresidential construction spe nding  increased about 1 percent in 
October after having  fallen sh arply  during  the third quarter.9 The increase—the 
first sinc e April—wa s concentrated in the  retail, whole sale and institutiona l 
sectors, thoug h spending  on hotels and other building s also edg ed up. 
Investment in office and industrial building s continued to fall in October, but the 
declines were less severe than the y were in the  third qua rter. 
8. Orders  for com munication s equipment at dom estic produ cers have also trended low er this 
year, bu t they have fluctuated w idely, apparen tly becau se of unstable s easonal pattern s in the 
orders  series. 
9. The recen t enactm ent of a federal terro rism insurance bill is n ot expected  to have much 
effect on  construction expenditures. 
II-24
II-25
Some other recent indicators, thoug h rema ining  quite weak overall, may  also be 
hinting  at a moderation in the rates of decline in nonresidential construction. In 
the offi ce sect or, vacancy  rates moved up ag ain in the third quart er, but  the 
increase was consi derabl y smaller than i n the previ ous t wo years. In addi tion, 
althoug h office property  values and rents continued to decrease last quarter on a 
year-over-y ear basis, losses in office-building  values have moderated 
significantly  since the beg inning  of th e year. Propert y values for ret ail space 
were actually  higher last quarter than they were a y ear earlier, thoug h rents 
continued to fall. But the warehouse ma rket showed little sig n of improvement 
last quarter. In the industrial sector, vacancy  rates moved up ag ain in the third 
quart er, but , as in the offi ce sect or, the increase was qui te small com pared wi th 
those seen during  the previous two y ears. 
Outside the building s component of cons truction, a small increase in the number 
of petroleum dr illing  rigs in ope ration in Oc tober and Nove mber partially offset 
a decline in natural g as rigs in operation. These data sug gest that spending  for 
drilling  structures used with the  rigs has been little  changed so f ar in the  fourth 
quarter. 
Business In ventories 
Real nonfarm inventories ex cluding  motor ve hicles increased at an annual rate of 
$9.3 billion in the third quarter after ha ving declined $15.4 billion in the second 
quarter. This positive swing  in inventor y investment added about 1 percentag e 
point to the g rowth of GDP in the th ird quarter. In October, manufacturing 
inventories were little  changed, as continue d drawdowns f or many types of 
durable g oods offset modest stockbuild ing of nondurable g oods. The book value 
data provide no evidence of  substantial inventory  overhang s outside of motor 
vehicles and parts. In addition, the W est Coast dock disruptions do not appear to 
have been larg e enoug h to affect th e level of ag gregate inventories. 
Using  the staff’s flow-of-g oods sy stem, which measures stocks wherever held 
and values them at factory -gate prices, inventories jumped by  2-1/2 day s’ worth 
of consumption during  Septem ber and October. Most of  this inc rease was due  to 
a sharp run-up in stocks of motor vehicl es and parts. Excluding  motor vehicles 
and parts, the ratio of i nventories to consumption re mained near i ts averag e of 
the past few y ears, with only  scatte red imbalances evident across industries. 
Federal Govern ment 
The federal budg et situation has conti nued to deteriorate. The federal 
government recorded a $54 billion unified de ficit in October; this compares with 
a $31 billion deficit a y ear earlier (after adjusting  for timing  shifts). October 
receipts dropped $9 billion, or 7 percent,  from last October on an adjusted 
II-26
II-27
II-28
II-29
basis.10 The decl ine was concent rated in individual income and pay roll tax 
recei pts and refl ects the reduct ions i n incom e tax rates implemented this year. 
Meanwhile, outlay s in October rose $14 b illion, or 9 percent, from last October. 
Contr ibuting  to this jump we re large increases in outla ys for defense, Medicare, 
and unemploy ment benefits. The increase in total outlay s was held down by  a 
reduction in inte rest payments tha t was induc ed by lowe r interest rates. 
Ongoing disputes over nondefense spendi ng continued to impede prog ress on 
fiscal 2003 appropriations during  the lame duck session, and the Cong ress 
passed a continuing  resolution that provides funding  for nondefense ag encies 
throug h January  11, 2002. Subsequently , the Republican Cong ressional leaders 
appear t o have reached ag reem ent with the Adm inistration on t he level of total 
discretionary  spending , althoug h the details of the plan will need to be worked 
out in J anuary . Cong ress has not yet extended the temporary  extended 
unemploy ment compensation (TEUC) prog ram, which is scheduled to ex pire on 
December 31, 2002; however, most analy sts expect this prog ram to be renewed 
after the turn of t he year. The recent  creat ion of a Depart ment of Hom eland 
Security is la rgely a reorganization of  existing  agencies and will ha ve little 
immediate impact on the budg et. 
State an d Local Govern ments 
Avai lable inform ation indicates that growth in state and local spending  for 
consumption and investment remained subdued in the early  part of the fourth 
quarter. Payroll employ ment in this  sector increased only  11,000 in October, 
down from the 18,000 monthly  averag e rise dur ing the first three quarters of the 
year and well below the 38,000 averag e monthly  gain during  2001. Much of the 
weakness i n em ployment in recent  months has been at  state governm ents and 
appears to r eflect wide spread fiscal difficulties. Real constr uction put in pla ce 
fell back in October. But state and local construction has been on an upward 
trend since early  summer, and the Oct ober level stood a bit above the third-
quarter averag e. In October, hig hway construction droppe d substantially , but 
real outla ys for education f acilities rose to a new record. 
The fi scal pressure on st ate and l ocal governments is intense. Since the 
November elections, some state g overnors and g overnors- elect have announced 
proposals to deal with worsening  imbalances in their g eneral-fund budg ets, 
which, ex cept in Vermont, are all unde r various ty pes of balanced-budg et 
requirements. Program cuts so f ar appear to remain the  predomina nt ing redient 
in most of these proposals, but tax  hikes have beg un to g arner more attention. 
10. On  an unadjusted bas is, the declin e in receipts  was more pron ounced. Adjustments 
remove the effect of  the Econ omic Grow th and Tax Relief Recon ciliation  Act of 2001, w hich 
allow ed corporation s to shift abou t $23 billion  in payments from Septem ber to October, 2001. 
Corporat e pay ments returned to their normal schedule in 2002. 
II-30
II-31
Because budg et stabiliz ation funds are depl eted in some states, less funding  is 
expected to come from such rainy -day funds this y ear compared to last y ear. 
Rather, many  governments are ex pected to transfer funds from other ty pes of 
reserve accounts into their g eneral funds to help cover prospective shortfalls. 
Meanwhile, revenue inflows for the state a nd local sector as a whole have beg un 
to streng then a bit. Own-source revenue—that is, the sum of personal, 
corporate, and indirect business tax and nontax  receipts—rose 2.7 percent over 
the four quarters ending  in 2002:Q3, th e larg est advance since the end of 2000; 
however, the increase is still well below rates seen in the mid-to-late 1990s. 
Prices 
Inflation for consumer g oods and serv ices other than food and energ y has 
continued to edg e lower. The core CP I rose a moderate 0.2 percent in October, 
bring ing its twelve-month chang e to 2.2 percent, 0.4 percentag e point lower than 
its increase in the comparable period twel ve months earlier. The 1.8 percent rise 
in the core PCE price index  over the tw elve months ending  in October was 
marginally less than t he rise over t he previ ous y ear; this decel eration woul d have 
been more pronounced if not for an acceleration in the erratic nonmarket 
component of these prices. 
The CPI  for services ex cludi ng energ y increased 0.3 percent in October and is up 
3.7 percent over the past twelve months—t he same rate of increase as over the 
precedi ng year but  down from  the twelve-m onth chang es of 4 percent  that 
prevailed last winter. The price i ndex  for commodities ex cluding  food and 
energ y edged down 0.1 percent in October,  as sharp drops in tobacco and used 
motor vehicle prices more than offset a 0.4 percent rise in new motor vehicle 
prices. As not ed earl ier, these m otor vehi cle price increases refl ected sm aller 
incentives on 2003 model-y ear vehicles.11 
The chained CP I excluding  food and en ergy—which takes better account than 
the official CPI of consume r substitution a mong different ite ms—shows 
inflation running  at 1.7 percent over the past twelve months, unchang ed from a 
year earlier. However, month-to-month chang es in the chained CPI  have been 
more erratic than in the  official CPI, and smoothing  throug h this monthly 
volatility, inflation a s measured by the chained CPI  also appears to ha ve edged 
lower over t he past  year. Some decel eration in inflation appears as wel l in the 
core m arket-based P CE pri ce index  which, like the chai ned C PI, uses a 
superlative ag gregation formula that takes consumer substitution into account. 
Core market-based PCE prices rose 1.3 percent over the twelve months ending 
in October, 0.4 percentag e point less than a y ear earlier. More rapid increases 
for prices of nonmarket 
11. Veh icle prices  in October ros e much more in the PPI than in the CPI becau se the 2003 
model-year vehicles were brought into the PPI all at once in October; they are included in the 
CPI only gradually as th e composition of purchased vehicles ch anges. 
II-32
II-33
services—items for which accurate pr ices are difficult to estimate—accounted 
for the smaller deceleration in the overall core P CE price index  noted above. 
Consumer energ y prices rose notably  in October. In particular, the CPI  for 
gasoline jumped 3.4 percent, reflecting  temporary  interruptions of oil refinery 
operations c aused by Tropical Stor m Isidore and Hur ricane Lili. But whole sale 
inventories are g radually  returning to nor mal levels, and sur vey data suggest tha t 
gasoline prices declined in November. Meanwhile, food prices edg ed up 
0.1 percent last month. Over the past twelve months, overall food prices have 
increased l ess than 1 percent  after rising nearl y 3-1/2 percent  over t he precedi ng 
year. Much of this deceler ation reflected declines in prices of livestock products 
following  large supply -related in creases during  the earlier period. 
Broader pri ce index es have decel erated more than consum ption pri ces over t he 
past year. After abstracting from the  adjustme nts tha t the BEA ma de to the  data 
for 2001:Q3 to account for insurance pay ments associated with the terrorist 
attacks, t he pri ce index  for GDP  has increased 1 percent over the past four 
quarters, its smallest increase sin ce 1963 and down from a 2.4 percent increase 
over t he precedi ng year.12 About half of this decel eration reflects movements in 
food and energ y prices. In addition, there has been an especially  sharp 
decel eration over t he past  year in prices for const ruction of resi dential and 
nonresidential structures. Some of that slowing  reflects erratic  movements in the 
prices of structures in the  drilling  and mining  sector, but pr ice increases for the 
construction of building s have  slowed sharply  as well. 
Near-t erm inflation ex pectations from  the Mi chigan survey  have m oved 
somewhat lower in the past two months. The m edian ex pectation for i nflation 
over the coming  year edg ed down to 2.4 percent in November, continuing  a 
gradual downward slide from 2.8 percent in  April. Mean one-y ear ex pectations 
also fell for a second month in a row after a substantial up tick in September. 
Expectations of  inflation ove r the next five to te n years were little  changed in 
November and, at 2-3/4 pe rcent, remain within th e rang e observed during  the 
past y ear. 
Prices at  earlier stages of processi ng have i ncreased. The P PI for i ntermediate 
goods other than food and energ y inch ed up 0.1 percent in October and was 
1.0 percent above its y ear-ear lier level. The PPI  for core crude materials rose 
0.9 percent in October. Since the la st Greenbook, broad-ba sed spot commodity 
price index es have moved hig her; the Journal of Commer ce industrial price 
index  and the Commodity  Research B ureau  index  of spot industrial prices are 
each up about 1 percent. 
12. B ecause a larg e share of  insurance services are pu rchased from abroad, th e BEA’s 
insurance adj ustments boos ted GDP prices in 2001: Q3 even as they redu ced con sumption prices. 
II-34
II-35
II-36
II-37
We have received little new information on labor costs since the last Greenbook. 
Compensation per hour in the nonfarm busin ess sector increased at an annual 
rate of 4.9 percent in the th ird quarter, bring ing the four-quarter chang e in this 
series to 3.3 percent. These fig ures ar e only  slightly different from the estimates 
reported in the last Greenbook supplement. 
II-38
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1 
Selected Financial Market Quotations 
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted) 
Change to Dec. 3 from 
2000 2001 2002 2002 selected dates (percentage points) 
Instrument 2000 2001 2002 
June 26 Sept. 10 Nov. 5 Dec. 3 June 26 Sept. 10 Nov. 5 
Short-term 
FOMC intended federal funds rate 6.50 3.50 1.75 1.25 -5.25 -2.25 -.50 
Treasury bills 1 
3-month 5.66 3.19 1.40 1.21 -4.45 -1.98 -.19 
6-month 5.94 3.13 1.38 1.29 -4.65 -1.84 -.09 
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates) 
1-month 6.56 3.42 1.54 1.28 -5.28 -2.14 -.26 
3-month 6.56 3.24 1.49 1.30 -5.26 -1.94 -.19 
Large negotiable CDs 1 
1-month 6.64 3.46 1.57 1.37 -5.27 -2.09 -.20 
3-month 6.73 3.26 1.55 1.37 -5.36 -1.89 -.18 
6-month 6.89 3.24 1.52 1.38 -5.51 -1.86 -.14 
Eurodollar deposits 2 
1-month 6.63 3.41 1.55 1.38 -5.25 -2.03 -.17 
3-month 6.69 3.26 1.55 1.37 -5.32 -1.89 -.18 
Bank prime rate 9.50 6.50 4.75 4.25 -5.25 -2.25 -.50 
Intermediate- and long-term 
U.S. Treasury3 
2-year 6.54 3.59 1.83 2.10 -4.44 -1.49 .27 
10-year 6.35 5.14 4.38 4.54 -1.81 -.60 .16 
30-year 6.22 5.55 5.25 5.27 -.95 -.28 .02 
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 4.09 3.26 2.46 2.56 -1.53 -.70 .10 
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 4 5.99 5.25 5.20 5.28 -.71 .03 .08 
Private instruments 
10-year swap 7.38 5.62 4.62 4.67 -2.71 -.95 .05 
10-year FNMA 7.15 5.64 4.71 4.75 -2.40 -.89 .04 
10-year AA 5 7.64 6.30 5.65 5.59 -2.05 -.71 -.06 
10-year BBB 5 8.40 7.11 7.30 7.08 -1.32 -.03 -.22 
High yield 6 12.30 12.72 13.49 12.27 -.03 -.45 -1.22 
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 7 
30-year fixed 8.14 6.89 6.13 6.13 -2.01 -.76 .00 
1-year adjustable 7.22 5.64 4.25 4.19 -3.03 -1.45 -.06 
Change to Dec. 3 
Record high 2001 2002 from selected dates (percent) 
Stock exchange index Record 2001 2002 
Level Date Sept. 10 Nov. 5 Dec. 3 high Sept. 10 Nov. 5 
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 9,606 8,678 8,743 -25.42 -8.98 .75 
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 1,093 915 921 -39.72 -15.72 .59 
Nasdaq (OTC) 5,049 3-10-00 1,695 1,401 1,449 -71.30 -14.53 3.41 
Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 441 386 401 -33.87 -9.05 3.82 
Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 10,104 8,624 8,706 -40.98 -13.84 .95 
1. Secondary market. 
2. Bid rates for Eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time. 
3. Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities. 
4. Most recent Thursday quote. 
5. Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data. 
6. Merrill Lynch Master II high-yield bond. 
7. For week ending Friday previous to date shown. 
_______________________________________________________________________ 
NOTES: 
June 26, 2000, is the day before the FOMC meeting that ended the most recent period of policy tightening.
September 10, 2001, is the day before the terrorist attacks.
November 5, 2002, is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting.
_______________________________________________________________________ 
BA:DAM 
Selected Interest Rates
Financial Futures Percent Percent 
4.0 7 
3.5 6 
3.0 5 
2.5 4 
2.0 3 
1.5 2 
1 
Dec Apr Aug Dec Apr Aug Dec Apr 1 3 5 7 10 20 30 
2002 2003 2004 2005 Maturity in years Expected Federal Funds Rates Estimated from Treasury Yield Curve 
December 3, 2002 
November 5, 2002 December 3, 2002 
November 5, 2002 
Note. Estimates from federal funds and eurodollar futures rates with Note. Smoothed yield curve estimated using off-the-run Treasury 
an allowance for term premia and other adjustments. coupon securities. Yields shown are those on notional par Treasury 
securities with semiannual payments. 
Short-Term Interest Rates 
Percent 
8 
Daily Nov. 6 
FOMC 
Discount rate 
Federal funds 2-year Treasury 
Dec. 
3 6 
4 
2 
0 
Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov 
2001 2002 
Long-Term Interest Rates 
Percent 
9 
Daily Nov. 6 
FOMC 
10-year BBB 
30-year Municipal* 
10-year Treasury Dec. 
3 8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov 
2001 2002 
*Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency. 
Dom estic Financial Developm ents
 
Overview 
Investors apparently  have  become more optimistic about economic prospects 
since t he last FOMC  meeting, as evi denced by  rising  equity  prices, narrowing 
credi t spreads, and i ncreasi ng Treasury yields. The F OMC’s policy  easing  on 
Novem ber 6 was l arger than ex pected, and t he shi ft to a bal anced assessm ent of 
risks also surprised market particip ants. Those actions, in concert with 
econom ic data that were som ewhat  stronger than ex pected, seem ed to reassure 
investors that economic activity  will accel erate after coasting  throug h the current 
“soft spot.”  Conse quently, futures rates imply  little  probability  of a polic y move 
at the upcoming  meeting , and market par ticipants have m arked up t heir expected 
path for the funds rate bey ond the middle of nex t year. 
Business borrowi ng has st rengthened sl ightly in recent  weeks, as fi rms have 
tapped the bond market in g reater volume.  In the household sector, mortg age 
borrowing  has continued to be brisk, ma intained by near-record low mor tgage 
rates. Debt issuance by  state and local g overnments has continued to be 
supported by  low interest rates and weak tax  revenue s, and federal borrowing 
has remained substa ntial. 
Interest Rates, S tock Prices, an d Corp orate Ri sk Spread s 
The F OMC’s announcement prompted a not able drop in money  market y ields
 
that afternoon but only  small chang es in longer-term y ields and equity  prices. 
 
Over subsequent weeks, economic news  was apparently  read as g enerally
 
positive, bolstering  investors’ confiden ce that the economic recovery  was not
 
likely  to stall and prompting  both equity prices and Treasury  yields to rise on
 
balance over the intermeeting  period. Judging from options prices, uncertainty
 
about the near-term path for both short- and long -term intere st rates appears to
 
have declined, on net, sin ce the last FOMC me eting.
 
Two- to ten-y ear Treasury  coupon y ields finished the period up about
 
15 to 25 basis points. The increase was g reatest in two- to five-year rates, as
 
investors marked up the ex pected path of policy  beyond the nex t few months. 
 
Both sur vey-and ma rket-based me asures of inflation e xpectations we re little
 
chang ed over the period, imply ing that the bulk of the increase in Treasury  yields
 
represented a rise in real interest rates.
 
Share prices fell early  in the intermee ting period on concerns about earning s in
 
the tech sector and at banks a nd se curities firms but la ter rallied on the  perceived
 
positive tone to economic da ta and favorable reports  from the retail sector,
 
althoug h this positive g low may  have diminished somewhat in recent day s. 
 
Since the last F OMC meeting , broad equity  index es are up 1/2 percent to
 
1 percent and have risen s ubsta ntially from the  lows of  early October. Greater
 
investor confidence in the economic ou tlook also helped to reduce uncertainty
 
III-2
III-3
 
about near-term share prices, with implied volatility  on the S& P 100 declining 
on bal ance over recent  weeks t o its lowest  levels since J une. Rising share pri ces, 
coupled with a small downward revision to year-ahead earning s, nudg ed the 
forward earning s-price ratio for the S &P 500 lower in December, but its spread 
over the real Treasury  yield—a crude m easure of the equity  premium—r emains 
wide in com parison wi th recent  years. 
Liquidity  in the corporate bond mark et has reportedly  improved from the 
relatively  poor level seen in Octobe r, and risk spreads on hig her-quality 
investment-g rade corporate bonds narro wed somewhat over the intermeeting 
period. The ri sk spreads on BBB-rat ed corporat e bonds—t he lowest -rated 
investme nt-grade issue s—de clined mor e. Part of this de cline is the  result of 
spreads on F ord and GM bonds retracing their steep ascent of early  October. 
Risk spreads on speculative-g rade bonds, particularly  those in the telecom, 
energy, and utility  sectors, fell mor e than those  on inve stme nt-grade issue s but 
remain qui te elevated by  historical standards. 
In the  comme rcial paper market, year-end pr emia are smaller thus f ar than the y 
have been in the past few y ears, owing  at least in pa rt to the  exit of many of the 
riskiest issue rs from the  market. The improved tone in corporate debt markets is 
also refl ected in an appreci able narrowi ng of credi t defaul t swap spreads (not 
shown)  for many large comme rcial banks, investment ba nks, and finance 
companies. 
Business Finance, Corp orate Credit Qualit y, and Ear nings 
Equity  issuance by  nonfinancial firms picked up a bit in November, mainly
 
because of seasoned offering s from utilitie s attempting  to reduce leverag e. In
 
contrast, activity in the IPO market remained qui te weak despi te the recent  rise
 
in sha re prices, reduced vola tility, and some  brightening in inve stor sentime nt. 
 
Based on firms’ announcements, share repur chases likely  have continued at a
 
moderate pace; the equity  retirements  from share buy backs and merg ers still
 
appear to be outpacing  gross issuance, thoug h by a smaller marg in than earlier
 
this y ear.
 
Gross bond issuance rose to $21 billion in November after an averag e monthly
 
pace of less than $14 billion from J uly to October, with speculative-g rade firms
 
accounting  for most of the pickup mainly because of two larg e deals to finance
 
the purchase of subsidiaries of teleco m firms. Total borrowing  by nonfinancial
 
firms turned positive  in Nove mber after several months of  negative readings,
 
partly reflecting the recent  tapering off of decl ines in com mercial paper and C &I
 
loans.
 
Most thir d-quarter earnings reports we re in ha nd by  the time  of the Nove mber
 
FOMC me eting, with the  exception of  those  of most r etailers, whic h typically
 
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
 
lag. Thei r earni ngs have si nce com e in and m ostly exceeded anal ysts’ forecast s, 
and as a result the estimate of S& P 500 earning s per share for the third quarter 
rose slig htly, putting  year-over-y ear g rowth at about 14 percent—a g rowth rate 
that appears l arge onl y because l ast year’s earni ngs were near a cy clical low. 
Downward revisions to the y ear-ahead outlook have slowed a bit recently , and 
analy sts are still looking  for siz able g ains in the coming  year. 
Despite  the rise in earnings, corporate credit qua lity shows only  faint sig ns of  an 
improvement. Recent measures of de faults and delinque ncies continue to 
suggest that severe financ ial stress persi sts for som e firms. The t welve-m onth 
averag e default rate on corporate bonds ha s declined from the J uly peak, but it 
remains hig h. The observed prices on de faulted bonds imply  low recovery  rates, 
with current estimates for the y ear just under 25 percent, near the low end of 
recovery  rates over the past ten y ears. Rating s downg rades of nonfinancial firms 
were ag ain significantly higher than upg rades in October, and while a forward 
measure of ex pected defaul ts inched down, i t too rem ained qui te elevated. 
Com mercial Real  Estate F inance 
Despite the ong oing decline in nonresid ential construction sp ending , commercial 
mortg age debt g rew a brisk 8 percent at an annual rate in th e third quarter. Some 
of this g rowth r eflects the extraction of  equity  from e xisting  properties. 
Althoug h most fix ed-rate commercial mortg ages are difficult to refinance 
because of prepay ment penalties, variab le-rate mortg ages and mortg ages coming 
due within a short time can be refinan ced, and recent deals have often involved 
the extraction of  equity . Yie ld spr eads on c omme rcial-mortgage-backed 
securities over swap rate s widened during  the inte rmeeting  period, mainly  in 
anticipation of an upsurg e in CMB S supply  before y ear-end. Potential credit-
quality problems do not se em to ha ve played a major role in the se wide ning 
spreads, althoug h some ma rket participants have voiced concerns. To date, 
commercial mortg age delinquency  rates have remained stable. 
In late Nove mber, the President sig ned legislation tha t limits the  exposur e of 
comme rcial property and casualty insur ers in the  event of future terrorist attacks. 
As a result, Moody ’s and F itch may reverse their September downg rades of 
securities backed by only  one or a small numbe r of large properties, whic h could 
cause spreads on t hese l arge-loan deal s to narrow. However, t hese deal s do not 
account for a major share of market tran sactions, and the staff does not ex pect 
the new law to boost commercial mortg age demand substantially . 
III-8
III-9
 
House hold F inanc e 
Mortgage rates briefly dippe d again to r ecord lows dur ing the intermeeting 
period, sustaining  the wave of mortg age origination and refinanc ing. Residential 
mortg age debt surg ed in the third qua rter, and borrowing  likely  has remained 
strong  in the current quarter. The am ount of mortg age debt refinanced in 
Novem ber m aintained i ts torrid pace from  October, and t he el evated MBA i ndex 
(not shown) sug gests robust refinancing  activity  at least throug h year-end. The 
surge in refinancing  may  help ex plain the tepid g rowth in consumer credit if 
households have been using  equity  withdrawn from their homes to pay  down 
some of their hig her-interest debt. 
In the third quarter, the household debt-service burde n was essentially 
unchang ed at its recent hig h level, and delinquency  rates on consumer and 
residential real estate loans edged lowe r. The  rate of personal bankruptcy filings 
was little  changed, on ba lance, in Nove mber, but it r emains at an elevated level. 
The i ncrease i n stock pri ces si nce earl y October, if maintained, would imply  a 
rise in the ratio of househol d assets to disposable inco me in the fourth quarter. 
The rebound in stock prices also appears to  have induced net inflows into equity 
mutual funds in November after five c onsecutive months of outflows. At the 
same time , inve stors have continue d to ma ke substa ntial net contributions into 
bond mutual funds, ex tending  the pattern seen throug hout this y ear. 
Treasu ry an d Agen cy Finance 
The deficits in October and Novem ber refl ected the trend of deterioration in the 
federal budg et. While seasona l patterns in tax  receipts us ually  result in a deficit 
in Oc tober, this y ear’s reading was significantly larger than tha t of a year ago, 
and current estimates sug gest the  increased bor rowing  continue d in Nove mber as 
the defi cit deepened. 
The duration mismatch on the books of the mortg age GSEs continued to attract 
market attention over the intermeeting  period. The use of derivatives and the 
addition of new mortg ages to their books trimmed the duration g ap somewhat, 
prom pting the yield spreads on ag ency debt over Treasuries to decrease further 
over the intermeeting  period. These spread s are now at the low end of the y ear’s 
range. 
State and Loc al Government Financ e 
In November, the issuance of short-term  state and local g overnment debt fell 
back substa ntially after the spike  in Oc tober that reflected fiscal difficulties in 
California. However, g ross issuance of long -term municipal bonds remained 
strong ; most of these bonds were issued  to finance capital spending , but some 
also represented advance refunding  to take advantag e of low interest rates. 
III-10
III-11

III-12
III-13
 
Althoug h more municipalities have been downg raded than upg raded this y ear, 
the situation may  have stabiliz ed recen tly; in November, twice as many  bonds 
were upg raded as downg raded. However, the y ield spread of insured B BB-rated 
over AAA-rated municipal bonds  was little chang ed at about 65 basis points, a 
somewhat  elevated level com pared wi th that of recent  years. 
Money and Bank C redit 
After a sharp slowing  at the end of the third quarter, M2 ex panded rapidly  over 
the first two months of this quarter. The g rowth of M2 was likely  supported by 
the low opportunity  cost of holding  M2, as well as the continued wave of 
mortgage refinanci ngs, the proceeds of whi ch are pl aced t emporari ly in liquid 
deposits be fore disbur sement to holde rs of mortgage-backed securities. The low 
level of interest ra tes also seems to have caused households to shift funds from 
retail time  deposits into liquid de posits. 
Bank credit continued to g row briskly in November. Low mortg age rates 
encourag ed strong  growth in real estate  loans, much of which were swapped for 
mortgage-backed securities. Consume r loans or iginated at banks ha ve risen at a 
moderat e pace i n recent  months, whi le bank loans t o busi nesses cont inued t o fall 
in Oct ober and Novem ber, al beit at a slower pace t han i n the third quart er. 
Comme rcial banks’ returns on a ssets and on e quity  slippe d a bit in the  third 
quarter but r emained hig h by histor ical standards. Third-quarter profitability 
was hindered by  small declines in bot h net interest marg ins and noninterest 
income as well as by  an uptick in lo ss provisioning . Loan delinquency  rates, 
however, edg ed down in the third quarter , in response to better performance of 
real estate loans and consumer loans co mbined with a stable  delinquency  rate on 
commercial and i ndustrial loans. 
III-14
III-15
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S.  International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The deficit in U.S. international trad e in goods and services was $38.0 billion in
September, slightly lower than in Augu st (revised).  For the third quarter, the
deficit was $446 billion at an  annual rate, little change d from the second quarter.
Exports of goods and services edge d down in September for the second
consecutive month, reflecting a decline in exports of services.  Exports of goods
were little changed for the month, as increases in machinery and telecom-munications equipment offset declin es in automotive products, industrial
supplies, and semiconductors.  For the th ird quarter, the value of exported goods
and services increased $16 billion (s.a.a.r .), a gain of 6.8 percent at an annual
rate from the second-quarter level.  Exports in near ly all major categories of
trade rose in the third quarter, with aircraft showing the largest gain.  Real NIPAexports, which grew at 14.2 percent (s.a.a .r) in the second quarter, expanded just
3.3 percent in the third quarter.
Imports of goods and services eased so mewhat in September, with both goods
and services moving lower.  Within goods, increased imports of automotiveproducts partially offset lower imports of oil, co mputers, semiconductors, and
consumer goods.  For the third quarter, imports of goods and services rose $20
billion (s.a.a.r.), or 5.8 percent at an a nnual rate from the s econd-quarter level. 
Imports of goods accounted for most of the increase in the third quarter, with
higher imports of consumer goods, i ndustrial supplies, a nd automotive products
more than offsetting lower imports of aircraft, computers,  and semiconductors. 
Real NIPA imports, which surged 22.2 pe rcent (s.a.a.r) in the second quarter,
also slowed to just 2.3 percent in the third quarter.
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
Prices of Internatio nally Traded Goods
The price of imported non-oil goods ticked down 0.1 per cent in October
following four consecutive months of mode st increases.  The price of core goods
edged up 0.1 percent in October, wh ile the prices of computers and
semiconductors continued to drop.  For co re goods, the largest increase was in
the price index for non-oil industrial s upplies, which rose 0.5 percent.  In
October, the price index for the food sect or dipped 0.3 percent after having risen
every month in the third quarter. 
The BLS price of imported oil rose 1.1 percent in October after climbing 6.0
percent in September.  The price of im ported oil has risen every month this year
except June.  The spot price of West Texas intermediate (WTI) crude oil has
also risen on average since the beginning  of the year and is currently around $27
per barrel, up from its average value near  $19 per barrel last December.  In the
second half of October, the spot pri ce fell from above $29 per barrel to near $26
per barrel, reflecting hi gher production from OPEC and the acceptance by Iraq
of a new U.N. resolution allowing unfettered weapons inspections.  More
recently, spot WTI has edged back up with indications of renewed OPECproduction restraint, the possibility of milita ry action in Iraq, political turmoil in
Venezuela, and tight oil inve ntories in the United States.
The price of total U.S. exported goods re mained unchanged in October, and the
price of exports of core goods moved up 0.1 percent.  Within core goods, the
largest price movement in October wa s a 1.8 percent decline in the price of
agricultural products, an about-face after four consecutive months of increases. 
Prices in other major categories were generally little changed. 
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
Foreign official inflows were again modest  in September, bringing the total for
the third quarter to $8 billion (line 1 of the Summary of U.S. InternationalTransactions table).  While this is in line with the typical quarterly amount over
the past year, it is sharply lower than the $47 billion recorded in the secondquarter.  The large official inflows in the second quarter were associated with
attempts by some countries—notably Japan, China, Taiwan, and Korea—to
prevent appreciation of their currencie s against the dollar; for Japan, this
accumulation of dollar assets took the form  of official intervention.  Russia’s
official holdings also increased sharpl y in the quarter as revenues from oil
exports surged.  These countries continue d to acquire dollar assets in the third
quarter, but to a much lesser extent.
The decline in official inflows between  the second and third quarters coincided
with a nearly offsetting increase in net private inflows through securitiestransactions, which increased from $89 billion in the second quarter to $120
IV-6
billion in the third quarter (line 4 plus  line 5).  A small portion ($15 billion) of
the net private inflows in the third quarter owed to U.S. investors’ sales  of
foreign securities (line 5).  U.S. investors’ reduced appetite for foreign securitiesextends back to late last year; afte r averaging over $100 billion annually through
the middle of last year, in the past fi ve quarters U.S. i nvestors have on net
purchased only $10 billion in foreign securities.  
The bulk of the net private inflows, how ever, were due to continued sizeable
($105 billion) private foreign purchases  of U.S. securities (line 4).  If
maintained, the pace of private inflows into U.S. securities of the past two
quarters would represent a return to the hi gh level of inflows of the first half of
2001.  There was also a noticeable shift in the composition of private inflows
from corporate securities to Treasury and ag ency securities.  Prior to the third
quarter, the bulk of private inflows had b een through purchases of U.S. corporate
securities, primarily bonds.  In the th ird quarter, however, private foreign
purchases of corporate bonds (line 4c) fe ll sharply despite strong issuance and
foreigners’ on net sold U.S. equities (line 4d).  More than offsetting the declinein foreign purchases of corporate secu rities were robust inflows into agency
bonds (line 4b) and strong purchases of  Treasury securities (line 4a).  The
inflows into Treasury securities ($55 b illion) were the highest quarterly amount
since 1996.
Banking flows (line 3) continue to be volatile.  For the third quarter, banking
inflows amounted to $53 billion, more than offsetting the $25 billion in outflowsin the first half of the year.
IV-7
Summary of U.S. International Transactions
(Billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted except as noted)
2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug Sept
Official financial flows 39.3 2.0 5.3 8.8 45.5 6.7 .1 2.2
1. Change in foreign official assets
in the U.S. (increase, +) 39.6 6.9 5.5 8.4 47.4 8.2 .3 3.2
a.  G-10 countries 12.3 -7.9 9.1 5.0 17.6 2.2 -8.5 4.5
b.  OPEC countries 10.7 -1.9 4.2 -6.5 1.1 -1.5 .6 -2.0
c.  All other countries 16.6 16.8 -7.8 9.9 28.6 7.5 8.2 .7
2. Change in U.S. official reserve
assets (decrease, +) -.3 -4.9 -.2 .4 -1.8 -1.4 -.3 -.9
Private financial flows 370.3 379.8 145.4 78.8 34.9 n.a. ... ...
Banks
3. Change in net foreign positions
of banking offices in the U.S.1-6.7 7.3 38.7 -3.9 -21.4 53.4 21.2 .7
Securities2
4. Foreign net purchases of U.S.
securities (+) 381.0 404.4 128. 2 67.6 99.9 104.5 26.3 36.8
a. Treasury securities -76.4 -5.6 28.3 -1.6 -5.0 55.0 .9 28.0b. Agency bonds 96.5  86.4 28.1  2.4 32.4 24.2 8.2 12.7c. Corporate and municipal bonds 165.7 201.7 38.3 43.3 60.6 17.4 12.5 2.5d. Corporate stocks
3195.1 121.9 33.5 23.4 12.0 8.0 4.7 -6.3
5. U.S. net acquisitions (-) of
foreign securities -126.6 -95.1 -26.2 1.9 -10.8 15.1 -.9 -2.6
a. Bonds -23.3 12.3 -7.4  .6 9.5 3.3 -2.8 -.4b. Stock purchases -22.9 -62.7 -12.4 3.1 -20.3 13.5 1.9 -.5c. Stock swaps
3-80.4 -44.7 -6.4 -1.8 .0 -1.7 .0 -1.7
Other flows (quarterly data, s.a.)
6. U.S. direct investment (-) abroad -178.3 -127.8 -27.5 -29.3 -29.4 n.a. ... ...7. Foreign direct investment in U.S. 307.7 130.8 21.9 16.2 1.0 n.a. ... ...8. Foreign holdings of U.S. currency 1.1 23.8 10.5 4.5 7.2 n.a. ... ...9. Other (inflow, + )
4-7.9  36.4 -.1  21.7 -11.6 n.a. ... ...
U.S. current account (s.a.) -410.3 -393.4 -95.1 -112.5 -130.0 n.a. ... ...
Capital account balance (s.a.)5.8 .8 .2 .2 .2 n.a. ... ...
Statistical discrepancy (s.a.) .0 10.7 -55.8 24.7 49.4 n.a. ... ...
NOTE:  The sum of official and private financial flows, the current account balance, the capital account balance, and the
statistical discrepancy is zero.  Details may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1.  Changes in dollar-denominated positions of all depository institutions and bank holding companies plus certain
transactions between broker-dealers and unaffiliated foreigners (particularly borrowing and lending under repurchaseagreements). Includes changes in custody liabilities other than U.S. Treasury bills.
2.  Includes adjustments BEA makes to account for incomple te coverage, but excludes adjustments for commissions and
therefore does not match exactly the data on U.S. international transactions published by the Department of Commerce.
3.  Includes (4d) or represents (5c) stocks acquired through mergers.4.  Transactions by nonbanking concerns and other banking and official transactions not shown elsewhere plus amounts
resulting from adjustments made by the Department of Commerce and revisions in lines 1 through 5 since publication of thequarterly data in the Survey of Current Business.
5. Consists of transactions in nonproduced nonfinancial assets and capital transfers.
n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.  
IV-8
Foreign Exchange Markets
On balance, the broad nominal value of the dollar has appreciated slightly on a
trade-weighted basis over the period since the last FOMC meeting, led largely by
a gain of about ½ percent against ma jor foreign currencies. Against the
currencies of our other important trading partners, the dollar is little changed.  
The dollar depreciated modestly against most major currencies in the week
following the Committee’s decision to cut rates but later re traced some of its
losses as stronger-than-expected U.S. data fostered limited market optimismabout economic conditions in the United States vis-à-vis those in foreign
industrial economies.  On balance, the dollar gained 2½ percent against the yen
and was little changed against the euro and Canadian dollar.  The dollardepreciated ¾ percent on net against sterling.
Much of the dollar’s gains against the yen came late in the period following
official commentary which market participants interpreted as reflecting thegovernment’s preference for a much weak er yen.  Over the period, stock prices
in Japan fluctuated near multi-decade lows  as uncertainty about the extent and
impact of expected government reforms to the banking sector and supplementary
budget plans swayed market sentiment.  E quity prices in the banking sector fell
dramatically following a media report th at a major bank woul d be nationalized. 
Although the report was subse quently denied by the government, share prices at 
two of Japan’s four largest banks fe ll over 30 percent on balance.  Broad 
IV-9
Japanese equity markets fell 1 percent on net.  The yield on the ten-year
Japanese government bond e nded the period a few basis points higher after the
government confirmed its plans for a supplementary budget and the resulting
need for new issuance. 
The Bank of Japan left its target range for reserves held at the central bank
unchanged in meetings this period but said it would now aim at the upper end of
the range.  Reserves at the BoJ, which had been averaging near the center of the
current range of 15-20 trillion yen, increased  to levels above 19 trillion yen after
the announcement. 
Short-term interest rates in the euro area declined over 20 basis points.  Data
from the euro area, and Germany in particular, showed further economic
weakness, helping to firm market expect ations that the European Central Bank
would lower interest rates at  least 25 basis points by year end.  Consistent with a
relatively weaker euro-area growth a nd inflation outlook, yields on long-term
euro-area government debt fell modes tly, whereas comparable Treasury yields
increased modestly.  
Short-term U.K. interest rates rose on balance as c ontinued strength in housing
prices and stronger-than-expected retail sales prompted markets to adjust upward
IV-10
the expected future path of the Bank of  England’s policy rate.  Headline equity
indexes fell in the United Kingdom and registered mixed performance in the
euro area.  European markets made subs tantial gains in response to a number of
stronger than-expected U.S. data rel eases but were generally weighed down by
weaker corporate outlooks.  
Reversing course after having increased rates twice earlier this year, Sweden’s
Riksbank lowered its policy rate 25 basis points to 4 percent.  The dollar
nonetheless depreciated modestly ag ainst the krona on balance following
stronger-than-expected Swedish confidence data.
In Latin America, market sentiment toward Brazilian assets remained relatively
stable despite ongoing uncertainty a bout the likely composition and policies of
the incoming Lula administration.  The Brazilian EMBI+ spread over U.S.Treasuries narrowed to 1,600 basis point s from a recent peak of 2,400 basis
IV-11
points in late September and the Brazilian stock market rose 7 percent.  Pro-
market statements by senior members of Lula’s transition team and of the
Workers’ Party (PT), as well as comment s by IMF officials in support of Lula’s
economic plans, helped to support Br azilian asset prices .  After having
appreciated substantially in the imme diate aftermath of the second-round
elections in late October, over the intermeeting period the Brazilian real
depreciated a relatively modest 4 percent against the dollar on net. 
Argentina’s EMBI+ yield spread over Tr easuries increased 250 basis points over
the period, largely in reaction to the Arge ntine government’s failure to repay the
principal due on its World Bank debt.    
In emerging Asia, sovereign bond spread s were little changed and equity market
performance was mixed.  The Korean stoc k market outperformed amid news of
strong export growth in that country, a nd the won appreciated 1 percent against
the dollar.  Equity markets also rose, although more modestly, in Taiwan and
Hong Kong, while markets fell about 5 percent in Singa pore and Malaysia. 
           
 .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for theaccounts of the System or the Treasury.
IV-12
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
Real GDP growth in most foreign industr ial countries slowed or remained weak
in the third quarter.  Growth in Japa n moderated from a strong second-quarter
rate as net exports made a negative c ontribution to growth.  Canadian growth
subsided as well, but stayed relatively robust on the back of strong investment
growth.  The United Kingdom continued to grow at a moderate pace withsupport coming from the service sector.  In the euro area, growth remained
sluggish despite a rebound in final domestic demand.
More recent indicators have also been so ft.  In most major foreign industrial
countries, September industrial produc tion fell, and business confidence
declined or remained low in recent months.  In Canada and the United Kingdom,a robust housing sector has offs et weakness in other sectors.
Twelve-month consumer-pri ce inflation rates rose in most major foreign
industrial countries.  In Ca nada and the euro area, higher energy prices were
partially responsible for the upturn.  In  the United Kingdom, rapid increases in
housing prices also added significantly to the rise in inflation.  Japanese prices
continued to fall, though at a slightly slower pace.
In Japan , real GDP rose 3 percent (s.a.a.r.)  during the third quarter.  The rise
was led by a slowing pace of invent ory decumulation, which contributed 1.9
percentage points to growth.  Private c onsumption remained strong, marking the
fourth consecutive quarter of positive growth.  In contrast, business fixed,residential, and public  investment all declined.  Ne t exports, an engine of growth
during the first half of the year, subt racted 0.4 percentage point from growth. 
Real export growth slowed markedly from roughly 26 percent in the second
quarter to 2 percent in the third quarter , in part reflecting a slowdown in exports
of high-tech goods to emerging Asia .  GDP growth during the second quarter
was revised upward to 4.2 percent from 2.6 percent, while first-quarter growth
was revised to 0.8 percent from zero.
Recent indicators are generally consistent with a slowing in the pace of growth. 
Industrial production slippe d in October, marking the second consecutive
monthly decline.  Private consumption a ppears to be moderating, with household
expenditures in October only slightly a bove the third-quarter average.  New car
registrations declined in November.  Th e unemployment rate rose to 5.5 percent
in October, matching the record high set last December.  The job-offers-to-applicants ratio, a key l eading indicator of employment conditions, edged up to
0.56 in October, but remains at low leve ls.  Business spending remains weak,
with core machinery orders, a leading indicator of business fixed investment,
falling nearly 2 percent on average during the third quarter.  Residential building
IV-13
starts rose sharply in October, but this followed several months of steep declines. 
Exports remain relatively sluggish, with  real exports for October up about 1
percent from the third-quarter average.  October imports fell roughly 2 percent. 
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001200112001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP 2.3 -2.3 -1.9 .8 4.2 3.0
Total domestic demand 2.2 -1.9 -2.0 -1.2 2.9 3.5
Consumption .3 1.3 1.4 2.0 2.2 3.2Private investment 11.0 -8.8 -11.2 -6.3 -.1 -3.0Public investment -11.3 -4.4 .6 -2.2 -5.9 -6.1Government consumption 4.1 2.6 2.9 2.1 2.3 3.7Inventories
2.1 -.9 -.9 -1.2 1.6 1.9
Exports 9.7 -10.9 -6.6 20.7 25.6 2.0Imports 10.7 -9.0 -8.4 -.3 14.4 7.4Net exports
2.1 -.4 .0 2.0 1.4 -.4
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Core consumer goods prices in the Tokyo area (which exclude fresh food but
include energy) were unchanged in N ovember from the previous month and
were down 0.7 percent from a year earlier.   Wholesale prices for domestic goods
have been roughly flat on a month-to-m onth basis since February; as a result,
twelve-month deflation at the wholesale level eased to 0.5 percent in October
from 1.4 percent earlier this year 
Details on the supplementary budget were announced on November 22.  We
estimate that the net “real water” content of the pack age is about ¥2 trillion (0.4
percent of GDP), including ¥1.5 trillion for additional spending on traditional
public works as well as some funds fo r labor market programs.  Additional
financing for small- and medium-sized enterprises will also be available.  Thegovernment will issue an additional ¥3 trillion in bonds to cover an expected
tax-revenue shortfall.  This added financing will bring the total new debtissuance to ¥35 trillion for FY2002, violatin g Prime Minister Koizumi’s pledge
not to exceed ¥30 trillion.  Legislation fo r the supplementary budget is expected
IV-14
to be submitted to the Diet in January.  Even with the addition of this
supplementary spending, fiscal policy will be somewhat c ontractionary next
year.  On November 29, Financial Serv ices Agency Minister Heizo Takenaka
provided more information about his proposals to resolve problems in the
Japanese banking sector, but  important details remain  unspecified as Takenaka
continues to seek political support for significant reform.
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov.
Industrial production1.6 3.8 2.2 1.4 -.1 -.3 n.a.
All-industries index .6 .3 .7 .3 .0 n.a. n.a.Housing starts .8 -.8 -3.9 -1.0 -.9 6.8 n.a.Machinery orders
2-7.4 7.1 -1.7 -13.6 12.7 n.a. n.a.
Machinery shipments33.6 6.6 1.6 5.7 -3.9 1.9 n.a.
New car registrations 2.0 4.3 3.4 8.0 -2.2 1.3 -1.5Unemployment rate
45.3 5.3 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.5 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.51 .53 .54 .54 .55 .56 n.a.
Business sentiment6-41 -32 -30 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-.9 -1.1 -.9 -.9 -.9 -.8 -.7
Wholesale prices7-1.4 -1.1 -1.0 -1.0 -.9 -.5 n.a.
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
GDP data confirm that euro-area economic growth remained sluggish in the
third quarter.  Consumption growth pick ed up, and investment spending was flat
after six quarterly declines, but net expor ts provided less of a boost than in the
first half and inventory destocking was a drag on GDP growth.  The French
growth rate slowed to just below those of Germany and Italy, after exceedingthem in the first half, with declining business fixed investment and a negative
IV-15
contribution from inventories largel y accounting for the French slowdown.
Euro-Area Real GDP1
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20002200122001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP 2.7 .4 -1.0 1.7 1.2 1.3Total domestic demand 2.2 -.2 -1.0 .3 .7 1.1Consumption 1.8 1.6 -.0 -.6 1.0 1.9Investment 3.4 -2.5 -3.5 -3.9 -4.7 .1Government consumption 2.1 1.5 1.7 3.8 3.0 1.1Inventories
3-.0 -.8 -.6 .7 .5 -.2
Exports 12.6 -2.8 -5.0 .2 6.4 9.1Imports 11.7 -4.6 -5.3 -3.7 5.5 9.2Net exports
3.5 .6 -.0 1.4 .5 .2
Memo:
France 3.8 .3 -1.6 2.4 1.7 .9Germany 1.9 .1 -1.2 1.1 .6 1.1Italy 2.6 .6 -.7 .5 .9 1.1
1. Includes Greece as of 2001 Q1.
2. Q4/Q4.3. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Euro-area industrial producti on and German manufacturing orders finished the
third quarter on a sour note with declines in September, and business sentimentindicators suggest that euro-area growth is  slowing further in the fourth quarter. 
November’s euro-area purchasing mana gers index (PMI) for manufacturing,
though up slightly,  remained just below the 50 level (the threshold for positive
growth), and German IFO business sentiment continued to deteriorate inNovember.
Consumer confidence slipped further in November and is relatively pessimistic
on balance.  Both consumers’ expectati ons of their own financial situation and
their expectations of the general economy over the next twelve months declined.
The volume of retail sales dropped considerably in Se ptember but still posted a
notable rise during the third quarter.
IV-16
The twelve-month rate of euro-area consum er price inflation remained just above
the European Central Bank’s (ECB) target ceiling of 2 percent in November. Excluding food, energy, and alcohol and tobacco, the twelve-month inflation rate
edged down to 2.3 percent in October, just  below the six-year peak of 2.5 percent
reached in May.  Producer prices are only slightly higher than year-earlier levels.
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov.
Industrial production1.5 .5 -.1 .2 -.2 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume .1 -.3 .7 1.0 -2.1 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
28.1 8.2 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.4 n.a.
Consumer confidence3-10.0 -8.3 -10.0 -11.0 -9.0 -12.0 -14.0
Industrial confidence4-13.7 -10.7 -11.7 -12.0 -12.0 -11.0 -10.0
Mfg. orders, Germany 1.3 2.1 -1.2 1.4 -1.0 n.a. n.a.CPI
52.6 2.1 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.3 2.2
Producer prices5-.8 -.8 -.1 -.1 .1 .9 n.a.
M357.7 7.3 7.2 7.0 7.3 7.0 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO defi nition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
3. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.     n.a.  Not available.
The European Commission announced on November 13 that it will launch an
“excessive deficit procedure” against Germ any.  The country’s fiscal deficit is
expected to come in at 3.8 percent of  GDP in 2002 and to remain over the 3
percent limit specified in the Stability and Growth Pact in 2003.  The Germangovernment has expressed its commitment to tighten fiscal policy in order toadhere to the 3 percent limit in 2003, announcing a package of spending cuts and
tax increases equal to a bout 0.8 percentage point of GDP in 2003.  The package
includes a new capital gains tax on share sales and investment  property and the
postponement of approved reductions in personal income taxes.  The
Commission also announced that it will imp lement an early warning procedure
IV-17
against France, given the Commission’s forecast that France’s fiscal deficit will
be 2.9 percent of GDP in 2003.  The Co mmission has criticized France for the
lack of clear improvement in its projected  structural deficit next year and for its
failure to put a plan in place that will allow the budget to be balanced by 2006. 
In the United Kingdom , real GDP expanded 3.3 percen t (s.a.a.r.) in the third
quarter, up from 2.5 percent in the previous  quarter.  The third-quarter pickup in
growth mainly reflected sharp turnarounds in government spe nding and inventory
accumulation.  The services sector also was strong.  In contrast, growth of
consumer spending moderated from a striki ng second-quarter rise and gross fixed
capital formation tumbled.  Net exports subtracted 1.2 percentage points from
growth, as exports shrank and imports grew.
U.K. Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001200112001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP 2.2 1.6 .9 .5 2.5 3.3
Total domestic demand 3.4 2.2 3.4 2.7 -.6 3.6
Consumption 4.8 4.2 4.6 1.9 5.4 3.3Investment 4.5 -6.9 -12.0 -6.1 -.3 -7.9Government consumption 1.3 5.3 7.3 12.3 -10.4 5.3Inventories
2-.8 -.2 1.4 .4 -2.3 1.9
Exports 8.7 -5.0 -6.1 -.5 14.6 -6.7Imports 10.9 -2.5 1.2 5.6 2.3 -2.8Net exports
2-1.2 -.7 -2.6 -2.4 3.7 -1.2
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
The limited indicators that are available for the fourth quarter are mixed, but on
balance point to moderate  growth, with a relatively weak manufacturing sector
and a robust services sector.   Business confidence fell in November, whereas the
Confederation of British Industry (CBI ) survey of manufacturing order books
recovered notably.  In recent months, the manufacturing PMI has been falling,
with November’s index indicating no growth  in the sector.  November’s services
PMI receded, but continued to indicate a notable expansion.  Retail sales grew
briskly in October, and the CBI survey of  retail sales indicates further growth in
IV-18
November.  Consumer confidence has re mained relatively flat over the past
several months after rising during th e summer, with consumers relatively
optimistic about their own fi nancial situation over the next twelve months, but
less sure about the economy in general.
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov.
Industrial production -1.2 .3 .4 -.4 -.3 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume 1.2 1.7 .8 .9 .4 .8 n.a.Unemployment rate
1
      Claims-based 3.1 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 n.a.      Labor force survey
25.1 5.2 n.a. 5.3 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence3-3.3 8.0 10.7 16.0 7.0 8.0 2.0
Retail prices42.4 1.9 2.0 1.9 2.1 2.3 n.a.
Producer input prices5-5.6 -5.9 -2.3 -2.0 -1.3 2.0 n.a.
Average earnings52.9 3.9 3.8 3.6 3.7 n.a. n.a.
      1. Percent.
2. Three-month average centered on month shown.3. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expecting output to decrease.
4. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.5. Percent change from year earlier.
     ...  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
Despite some anecdotal evidence that the housing market is cooling, housing
prices increased about 5½ percent (not a nnualized) in the three months ending in
November according to one of the two leading surveys.  The NovemberConstruction PMI rose to 56.2, with th e housing sector index climbing to 62.3. 
Borrowing to finance the purchase of hom es jumped in October, while unsecured
borrowing subsided.
Labor market conditions ha ve remained tight.  The official claims-based
unemployment rate held steady at 3.1 percent in October, near a record low.  The
twelve-month rate of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage interest payments)
rose to 2.3 percent in October, slightly  below the Bank of England’s 2½ percent
target.  The increase in inflation partia lly reflects higher housing prices.  The
twelve-month growth rate of averag e earnings ticked up to 3.7 percent in
September.
IV-19
On November 27, the government presente d to Parliament its  Pre-Budget Report,
which included no new major spending.  Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon
Brown, projected Public Sector Net Bo rrowing to be £20 billion for 2002-03 and
£24 billion for 2003-04 -- both around 2 percent of GDP.  This forecast is anupward revision from the March budget’s  projection of £11 billion for 2002-03
and £13 billion for 2003-04.  The governme nt lowered its real GDP growth
forecasts to 1.6 percent for 2002, and 2½-3 percent for 2003.  The foreast for2004 is 3-3½ percent growth. 
Brown announced on November 27 that  Mervyn King will replace Edward
George as Governor of the Bank of Engl and.  Mr. King currently serves as the
bank's Deputy Governor, a nd his appointment as G overnor will begin when
George's term expires at the end of J une 2003.  His term of office will be for
three years and is renewable.
Canadian Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001200112001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP 3.5 .8 2.9 5.7 4.4 3.1
Total domestic demand 2.6 -.3 -3.8 5.8 10.9 1.7
Consumption 3.4 2.2 4.1 2.9 4.2 .5Investment 3.6 -1.6 -13.9 8.1 5.8 6.2Government consumption 3.4 2.1 .9 1.7 3.3 2.8Inventories
2-.8 -1.6 -3.4 1.9 5.8 -.3
Exports 4.7 -6.1 -.6 5.3 2.0 9.6Imports 2.2 -9.2 -16.9 5.2 18.9 6.3Net exports
21.2 .9 6.6 .4 -5.5 1.6
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
In Canada , real GDP grew 3.1 percent (s.a.a.r) in the third quarter, led by strong
growth in the export of motor vehi cles and a residential housing boom. 
Investment in residential structures increased 15.9 pe rcent, compared with an
otherwise tepid 2.1 percent ri se in investment in non-re sidential structures and
equipment.  Consumption expenditures were  flat following strong growth in the
previous quarter.  Monthly GDP measured by industry reveals that third quarter
IV-20
growth was concentrated in the beginning  of the quarter and had tapered off by
September.  However, indicators sugge st that residentia l construction has
remained strong in the fourth quarter.  In October, housing starts jumped 6.6
percent above the third-quarter average, rising to their highest level since 1990.
Surveys suggest mixed business sentiment going into the fourth quarter.  In
October’s business conditions survey , manufacturers expressed increased
pessimism regarding production prospects for the fourth quarter, with those firms
expecting to decrease production outweig hing those expecting to increase
production.  However, October’s PMI rose to 60.9 from 58.5 in September.
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Jul. Aug. Sept. Oct.
GDP by industry 1.3 1.0 .8 .4 .2 .1 n.a.
Industrial production 2.3 1.4 1.1 1.3 -.2 .5 n.a.New mfg. orders 4.7 3.7 1.0 -.5 3.4 -1.2 n.a.Retail sales 2.6 .8 .7 -.2 .4 -.5 n.a.Employment .7 .9 .9 .1 .4 .3 .2Unemployment rate
17.8 7.6 7.6 7.6 7.5 7.7 7.6
Consumer prices21.5 1.3 2.3 2.1 2.6 2.3 3.2
Consumer attitudes3124.8 125.1 124.5 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence3141.5 145.2 129.7 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
The unemployment rate fell to 7.6 pe rcent in October from 7.7 percent in
September.  Employment has increased 3 percent in 2002, the largest ten-month
increase since 1994.  However, recent data  suggest that the labor market is
cooling.  Employment increases in Se ptember and October resulted from gains in
part-time employment, while full-time employment actually fell in both months. Hours worked fell 1.4 percent in Octobe r from the third-quarter average.  In
October, the twelve-month rate of headlin e CPI inflation leapt to 3.2 percent from
2.3 percent in September, reflecting base  effects and higher energy and tobacco
prices, as well as higher automobile insurance premiums.  Core inflation,
IV-21
excluding food and energy prices, rose to 3.3 percent in October from 3.0 percent
the month before.
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Japan
Trade 72.4 86.1 73.9 93.0 60.4 87.7
Current account 117.5 118.7 115.0 116.9 99.4 n.a.
Euro area
Trade166.4 90.3 133.2 117.8 111.5 n.a.
Current account140.9 20.4 79.7 113.9 94.1 n.a.
Germany
Trade 112.6 107.8 136.1 145.5 138.9 n.a.Current account 36.9 43.7 44.4 48.7 82.4 n.a.
France
Trade 1.0 1.6 2.4 2.7 .9 n.a.Current account 3.6 4.5 4.1 6.1 2.9 n.a.
Italy
Trade 5.5 11.1 11.0 9.2 18.9 n.a.Current account
1-9.3 -16.0 16.8 15.9 -2.7 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -45.0 -38.2 -52.7 -62.6 -50.4 n.a.Current Account -21.7 -23.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 34.8 34.6 35.8 32.2 37.3 n.a.Current Account 13.3 12.6 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-22
IV-23
IV-24
Economic Situation in Other Countries
The economic and political environment in South America remains unsettled. 
Brazil is coping with the transition to the Lula administration, and Argentina has
defaulted on a World Bank loan.  Despite  some improvement in recent economic
data, the Venezuelan political situation appears to have deteriorated.  In Mexico,the recovery has continued, but recent indicators point to some softening in thepace of activity.  Growth in emerging Asia moderated in the third quarter, butChina is still the most notable exception, with indicators there showing no signs
of a slowdown in economic activity.
In Brazil , indicators since the last Greenbook have been mixed.  Real GDP rose
3.8 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the third quarter , boosted by strength in the industrial
sector.  This growth was higher than expected, given that other indicators had
pointed to a slowdown.  In particular, une mployment rose in the third quarter and
continued to climb in October.  The trade surplus has widened significantly inrecent months, bringing the cumulative trade surplus through November to over$11 billion, versus $2 billion for the same  period in 2001.  The increase reflects
both the weak economy and improved in ternational competitiveness following
the depreciation of the real.
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov..
Real GDP14.2 -.8 3.5 3.8 ... ... ...
Industrial production 6.6 1.5 1.5 -.4 .9 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
27.1 6.2 7.9 8.1 8.4 8.5 n.a.
Consumer prices36.0 7.7 7.8 7.6 7.9 8.4 n.a.
Trade balance4-.7 2.6 4.2 18.9 29.0 30.0 21.1
Current account5-24.6 -23.2 -20.4 3.9 14.6 -4.1 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  “Open” unemployment rate.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
IV-25
Twelve-month consumer price inflation climbed to 8.5 pe rcent in October, driven
by pass-through from the sizeab le net depreciation of the real in recent months. 
The rise in inflation has prompted th e central bank to increase its overnight
interest rate 300 basis points since mid -October.  Reflecting concerns that
President-elect Lula, who takes office in January, will enact expansionarypolicies, inflation expectati ons have climbed considerably in recent weeks.  The
delay in the announcement of a new econo mic team, which is now expected by
December 8, has helped fuel these concerns.
Despite some recent improvement in exch ange rates and risk  premia, Brazilian
borrowers’ access to international and domestic capital markets remains highlyrestricted.  Attention continues to focu s on the rollover of significant amounts of
domestic federal government  debt maturing in coming weeks.  The government
rolled over most of the debt maturing in early December, but at yields that mayprove unsustainable.
In Argentina , data releases since the last  Greenbook were mixed.  Although
confidence indicators rose, ot her indicators pointed to a weakening in activity.  In
any case, the very depressed state of the economy, plus the suppression of utility
rates, kept CPI inflation at only 0.2 percen t (s.a.) in October.  This brought the
twelve-month increase to nearly 40 percent, versus an increase in the producerprice index of about 125 percent over the same period.  Consumer price inflation
has been surprisingly low given the gove rnment’s severe fis cal problems, fiscal
and monetary pressures fro m the provincial government s, and the country’s lack
of access to international and domestic capital markets.
In mid-November, the Argentine g overnment defaulted on a $800 million
payment to the World Bank, after failing to reach agreement with the IMF on anew loan.  The default makes Argentina ineligible for new loans from the WorldBank.  The Argentine government lifted w ithdrawal restricti ons (the “corralito”)
on December 2, one year after the restrictions were imposed.  The lifting ofrestrictions passed relatively calmly, with only modest deposit withdrawalsreported.  Capital controls on most transactions remain in place.  Talks betweenPresident Duhalde and the nation’s provi ncial governments aimed at building a
political consensus for economic refo rms culminated in a late-November
agreement that the IMF considered a step forward, but insufficient for a program. The Fund also remains concerned about th e lack of a clear monetary framework.
IV-26
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP1 -1.9 -10.5 3.8 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -1.8 -5.0 -.4 -.2 .0 .9 -.2Unemployment rate
215.1 17.4 21.5 n.a. ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -.7 -1.5 23.3 36.0 36.5 38.5 39.4
Trade balance42.6 7.5 n.a. n.a. 16.1 19.6 18.9
Current account5-8.9 -4.4 10.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data are released for May and October only.  Figures for Q2 reflect data
for May.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Mexico , real GDP grew 4 percent (s.a.a.r.)  in the third quarter, in response to
growth in U.S. output.  Available f ourth-quarter indicators are generally
consistent with a deceleration in activity ; exports were down modestly in October
and, although the unemployment rate imp roved in the same month, other labor
market indicators were weaker.  Howeve r, business confidence turned back up in
November after several mont hs of decline.  A fall in exports has led to a
widening of the trade deficit.  Tw elve-month inflation came in at around 5
percent in October, unchanged from its September value and above the
government’s year-end target of 4½ percen t.  Price data from the first half of
November suggest that inflation likely moved up some in November.
A draft 2003 budget presented to congress in early November is currently under
debate.  Although the oppositi on has endorsed the tight ove rall deficit target of ½
percent of GDP, it has proposed an alte rnative budget that would dramatically
increase social spending, public investment  spending, and transfers to states and
municipalities.  The higher spending in these categories would be financed by
cutting other spending and increasing budgeted revenues, including raising  the oil
price assumption $1.50 per barrel.
IV-27
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP14.9 -1.5 5.4 4.0 ... ... ...
Overall economic activity 6.5 -.2 1.3 .2 -.2 -.2 n.a.Industrial production 5.9 -3.3 1.3 -.7 .0 -1.3 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.2 2.5 2.7 2.9 2.8 3.0 2.6
Consumer prices3 9.0 4.4 4.8 5.2 5.3 4.9 5.0
Trade balance4-8.0 -10.0 -8.2 -7.3 -6.6 -7.7 -11.1
Imports4174.5 168.4 170.0 171.0 169.6 171.4 172.2
Exports4166.5 158.4 161.8 163.7 163.0 163.7 161.0
Current account5-18.1 -18.0 -11.4  -12.8 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Positive economic news out of Venezuela  since the last Greenbook was at odds
with a further ratcheting up of political te nsions.  Output rebounded sharply in the
third quarter, retracing the s econd quarter’s decline.  Mo st of the gain was due to
strength in the oil sector, which led the current account surplus to more than
double to $15.3 billion (a.r.).  Financial conditions also improved somewhat, as
Venezuela exchanged about one-third of its domestic debt coming due in the next
three years for longer-term instruments that are linked to the exchange rate. However, violent skirmishes betw een government and opposition groups
continued, and OAS sponsored “peace talk s” have made little  progress.  On
December 2, opposition forces began a nati onal strike in hopes of forcing a
referendum on the rule of President Chavez.
IV-28
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Real GDP1 5.7 .9 -20.9 21.8 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 13.3 15.8 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices313.4 12.3 18.9 24.8 28.2 29.9 30.7
Non-oil trade balance4-10.4 -12.2 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance417.5 9.3 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account513.4 3.9 6.4 15.3 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Recent indicators for Korea  continue to point to healthy, albeit moderating,
growth in the second half of the year.  Output rose 5.1 percen t (s.a.a.r.) in the
third quarter, boosted by robust perform ance in the manufacturing and service
sectors, which more than offset sizable declines in agriculture and construction. 
The latter sectors were hurt by poor weat her conditions.  More recently, industrial
production for October jumped 2.4 percent, w ith particularly strong gains in the
auto and computer chip industries.  Exports  also soared in October, leading to a
sizable trade surplus and a significant jump in the current account balance. 
Twelve-month inflation rose to 3.5 percen t in November, reflecting increases in
fuel prices, while the unemployment rate for October held steady at 3 percent. 
There are signs that consumption and i nvestment growth ma y be slower going
forward, however.  The most recent consumer and business confidence indicatorsfell, in part, on fears of weakening extern al conditions.  Presidential elections are
scheduled for December 19, and neither  the ruling party nor the opposition
candidate is expected to alter the current  course of economic policy significantly.
IV-29
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Real GDP15.1 4.4 5.8 5.1 ... ... ...
Industrial production 16.9 1.7 2.0 1.7 .0 2.4 n.a.Unemployment rate
24.1 3.7 3.1 3.0 2.8 3.0 n.a.
Consumer prices32.8 3.2 2.7 2.5 3.0 2.8 3.5
Trade balance416.9 13.4 14.3 9.7 4.5 24.0 n.a.
Current account512.2 8.6 7.1 2.3 5.3 16.6 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Since the last Greenbook, economic conditions in the ASEAN  region have
weakened somewhat.  Real GDP growth  in Indonesia moderated to just over
3 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the third quarter , while the Philippine economy registered a
small contraction.  Real GDP in Singapor e fell more than 10 percent, after a very
strong second quarter, largely due to a precipitous decline in equipment
investment.  Malaysia, with  only a modest slowing in growth in the third quarter
to 6.8 percent, was the bright spot am ong these countries.  Recent industrial
production figures for the region have been mixed, but data on production of
high-tech goods have been decidedly nega tive in recent months.  Trade surpluses
have generally widened since August, a lthough Singapore’s trade surplus shrank
for the second straight month in October.
Inflation in the region was benign throug h October.  Indonesia remained close to
achieving single-digit inflation on a twelve-month basis.  In Singapore,
twelve-month inflation remains slightly  negative, although prices have been
stable over the past several months.
IV-30
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 6.9 1.6 6.3 3.1 ... ... ...
Malaysia 6.2 -.6 7.4 6.8 ... ... ...Philippines 3.7 3.9 10.9 -.3 ... ... ...Singapore 11.4 -6.4 13.4 -10.1 ... ... ...Thailand 3.4 2.0 6.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia311.6 .7 -2.0 -1.2 -.8 1.0 n.a.
Malaysia 19.1 -4.1 2.4 3.2 -1.1 1.2 n.a.Philippines 2.4 -5.7 5.3 -4.1 -4.2 .5 n.a.Singapore 15.3 -11.6 9.8 -4.8 -4.7 -7.2 4.8Thailand 3.2 1.3 3.3 3.2 2.0 -2.1 .9
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Indonesia 28.6 25.4 28.3 24.3 21.4 26.0 25.3
Malaysia 16.1 14.2 12.1 12.8 10.6 12.9 14.5Philippines 6.7 2.6 .8 .2 -3.4 .1 n.a.Singapore 3.3 5.8 5.8 12.0 11.9 10.8 3.7Thailand 5.5 2.5 3.3 2.7 2.6 8.9 4.6
n.a.  Not available.
IV-31
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20001200112002
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Indonesia 9.3 12.5 12.6 10.4 10.5 10.3 10.5
Malaysia 1.3 1.2 1.9 2.1 2.1 2.1 n.a.Philippines 6.7 4.1 3.4 2.8 2.9 2.7 n.a.Singapore 2.1 -.6 -.4 -.4 -.4 -.2 n.a.Thailand 1.4 .8 .2 .3 .4 1.4 1.2
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available
The Chinese  economy has shown no signs of slow ing.  Exports have continued
to soar and are currently more than 30 percent above thei r year-ago levels. 
Foreign direct investment is on a p ace to exceed $50 billion this year, which
would likely make China the single largest recipient of FDI in the world this year. The Chinese government began the change to the next generation of politicalleadership in November, when the Communist party elected new leaders.  As aresult, early next year Hu Jintao will become China’s new President and WenJiabao will become the new Prime Minister.  These new leaders are expected tocontinue China’s reform policies.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP18.0 7.5 9.3 7.5 ... ... ...
Industrial production211.4 8.9 12.5 13.1 12.7 13.8 14.2
Consumer prices21.5 -.3 -1.1 -.8 -.7 -.7 -.8
Trade balance324.1 23.1 29.9 10.2 3.9 14.0 26.6
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
IV-32
Third quarter real GDP in Hong Kong surprised on the upside, with growth of
more than 10 percent (s.a.a.r.).  The Hong Kong government reported
considerable strength in exports to Chin a and in tourism.  Despite the good news,
most recent indicators point to weakness in  the fourth quarter.  Data show little, if
any, improvement in unemployment, c onsumer confidence, and manufacturers’
expectations.  The government did announ ce new measures designed to boost the
ailing property market, but most analys ts doubt that those measures will have
much effect.  Consumer prices  continued to fall in October.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP17.0 -1.4 2.8 10.4 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate25.1 4.9 7.7 7.4 7.6 7.4 7.2
Consumer prices3-2.1 -3.5 -3.2 -3.5 -3.3 -3.7 -3.6
Trade balance4-11.0 -11.4 -7.8 -9.7 -12.7 -6.2 -10.5
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
Taiwanese  real GDP grew just 0.4 percent (s.a.a .r.) in the third quarter.  A large
increase in government spending and sm all increases in personal consumption
and investment spending were  largely offset by a surg e in imports.  The high-tech
manufacturing industry has not  done well recently, and th is has had repercussions
throughout the economy, including the labor market, where unemployment is
near decade highs.  While overall i ndustrial production ro se in October,
production of high-tech goods fell sharply.  Deflation persiste d in October, with
prices down 1.6 percent from a year ago, alt hough part of this decline is due to a
base-year effect.
IV-33
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP13.9 -1.6 .3 .4 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate23.0 4.6 5.2 5.1 5.0 5.1 5.1
Industrial production 7.4 -7.3 6.0  -1.6 -1.0 -.9 1.5Consumer prices
31.7 -1.7 .0 -.2 -.3 -.7 -1.6
Trade balance48.3 15.6 16.3 12.9 18.3 9.2 15.3
Current account58.9 17.9 23.0 19.8 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate....  Not applicable.