Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 5/20/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                     August 6, 2003
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                        August 6, 2003
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
1. Specifically, because the Independence Day holiday fell on a Friday, some firms may
have extended their vacation periods to include all or part of the survey reference week, which
began the following Sunday.  Thus, the survey week may not be representative of the month as a
whole.  We believe that seasonal adjustment issues in July did not importantly affect hours
worked in nonmanufacturing sectors.Domestic Nonfinancial Developments
Overview
The available evidence suggests that ec onomic activity around the middle of the
year was uneven.  In July, manufacturin g output growth appa rently stalled but
sales of automobiles a nd trucks quickened considerably.  The economy
continued to shed jobs through the July survey week, but recent readings oninitial claims for unemployment insurance have been encouraging. Homebuilding remains robust, although a good portion of the recent strength
likely reflects declines through midyear in  mortgage rates, and those rates have
backed up in recent weeks.  Federal government actions on both the tax andspending sides are lending support to aggregate demand, although fiscal
restraint by states and localities has provided some offset.  Despite anunexpectedly high reading in June fo r core PCE prices, the year-over-year
change in core consumer prices ha s fallen to 1.3 percent through midyear.
Real GDP
The staff estimates that real GDP grew at  an annual rate of  2.6 percent in the
second quarter.  The estimate for GDP  growth in the second quarter is
0.2 percentage point higher than th e BEA’s advance estimate.  The upward
revision stems from stronger nonresiden tial and state and local government
construction expenditures in the latest Census data than the BEA had expected
at the time it prepared the GDP report.  The Census data suggest only a slightdownward revision to the BEA’s initial estimate of residential investment.
Labor Market Developments
The labor market remained soft in July.  Private payroll employment fell for asixth consecutive month, and average weekly hours of production andnonsupervisory workers edged down.  July’s drop in the number of workers onprivate payrolls followed a June loss that was revised from 31,000 to 71,000. 
Cutbacks in jobs in manufacturing were again large, and the factory workweek
dropped 0.2 hour.  We believe that the early-July report may overstate the
weakness in factory hours worked becau se of difficulties in adjusting for
seasonal plant shutdowns.
1  Nevertheless, outside of  manufacturing, industries
such as transportation, wholesale trad e, retail trade, information, and some
components of professional and business services also  posted substantial job
losses.  On the plus side, adminis trative and support services added
85,000 jobs—half of them in tempor ary help services—and accommodations
registered a second monthly job incr ease after a string of declines.
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
2. The number of cooling degree days in June was 0.9 standard deviation below  normal, and
in July it was 0.6 standard deviation above  normal.In the survey of households, the unemp loyment rate fell back 0.2 percentage
point, to 6.2 percent, after having jump ed 0.3 percentage point in June.  The
labor force participation rate dropped back sharpl y to its March level of
66.2 percent.  Since March, when the joble ss rate appeared to  have flattened out
at 5.8 percent, the unemployment rate has crept up 0.1 percentage point per
month, on average.  Over the period, th e number of individuals on temporary
layoff has moved up only slightly, while th e number of permanent job losers has
increased noticeably.
Since the early-July reference week for the household survey, initial claims for
unemployment insurance have come dow n significantly.  Although seasonally
adjusting the July data can be difficult because of variations in the timing and
extent of plant shutdowns, the gradual d ecline in the four-week moving average
through the week of July 26 suggests that  the deterioration in the labor market
may have slowed or stopped.
Other labor market indicators for July ha ve been mixed.  Hiring plans of small
businesses moved up further, accord ing to the National Federation of
Independent Businesses,  and layoff announcements, as reported by the
outplacement firm Challenger, Gray, and Christmas, Inc. (as seasonally adjustedby FRB staff) declined slightly in July.  In addition, the Conference Board’sindex of help wanted adve rtising edged up again in June, although it remained at
a low level.  However, households’ perceptions of current labor market
conditions deteriorated again in July, according to the Conference Board survey,and households’ expectations of futu re conditions worsened in both the
Conference Board and Michigan surveys.
Industrial Production
Recent indicators suggest that industria l production moved up for a third month
in July.  The July increase likely was boosted by a surge in electricity generationthat largely reflected a return of warm  weather after an unseasonably cool June.
2 
We currently are estimating that manufacturing output, which increased0.4 percent in June, was little changed in July.  Factory production in industries
for which weekly physical product data are available strengthened in July;
notably, motor vehicle assemblies and th e output of iron and steel were up.  In
contrast, the drop in hours of manuf acturing production workers suggests a
decline in factory output more broadly—ev en adjusting for the extent to which
the data for the survey reference week di d not reflect activity for the month as a
whole.  As indicated earlier, we believe that firms in some industries in which
output has been weak, such as textile mills and apparel, may have extended theirholiday downtime to include at least part of the next week.
II-6
II-7
3. Intel accounts for about 80 percent of worldwide MPU shipments, and about
80 percent of Intel’s revenue is derived from MPUs.In the high-tech sector, production has in creased a bit more than 1 percent per
month this year, as lackluster read ings for communications equipment have
been more than offset by increases for other high-tech items.  Semiconductor
output jumped at an annual rate of 24 percent in the second quarter, a sharp
pickup from the 4 percent rate posted in  the first quarter; recent gains have
primarily come from the production of microprocesso r units (MPUs) used in
personal computers and the flash memory used in consumer electronics such as
cell phones and digital camer as.  Intel’s seasonally adjusted revenue, which
closely tracks worldwide MPU shipments,  increased in the second quarter, and
the company’s guidance for the third quarter suggests a continued strengtheningof MPU production.
3  Despite the apparent uptur n in demand for MPUs, orders
and shipments at North American semiconductor equipmen t makers remain
tepid and are consistent with incr ements to semiconductor manufacturing
capacity that are, at best, moderate.
Since January, the industrial production index for computer and peripheral
equipment has risen about 2 percent pe r month; strong consumer sales have
compensated for the slow expansion of the output of servers and other high-end
machines for businesses.  Gartner,  a research and advisory firm,  estimates that
unit shipments of PCs increased 1.7 percen t (not an annual rate) in the second
quarter, and it projects significant increas es in the third and fourth quarters
based largely on an improve ment in business demand. 
Outside of motor vehicles and parts,  high-technology industries, and utilities,
production has been choppy so far this y ear and is expected to move down in
July.  In the early part of the year, pa rticularly in April,  broad-based production
declines were evident, but these we re followed by a period of widespread
production gains.  In June, the percent change in the three-month movingaverage of output of business equipmen t—which includes industrial equipment,
commercial and service industry machin ery, farm machinery and equipment,
office furniture, and medical equipment and supplies—moved into positiveterritory for the first time since Sept ember 2000.  The output of defense and
space equipment continued to expand in June, with a strong showing frommilitary aircraft, whose output has been el evated for the last couple of months,
reflecting recovery from a strike-induced decline in April.  In contrast, the
indexes for construction s upplies and business supplies both remain near their
six-year lows and have contracted for three consecutive quarters.  Weakspending by state and local governments,  together with a two-year decline in
nonresidential construction, has restrained the pr oduction of construction
supplies.
II-8
II-9
II-10
4. However, according to the Census Bureau , new orders for communications equipment
slipped further in June, and Cisco reported that demand for its communications products was
fragile.Indicators of future activity in the indus trial sector have improved steadily over
recent months and are consistent with  gains in manufacturing production going
forward.  Surveys of chief information officers indicate that  planned spending
on data networking equipment (such as  routers, switches, and hubs) and on
computers have moved up, on balan ce, since earlier in the year.4  In a recent
survey of members of the National Association of Business Economists,
responses to a question regarding ex pected spending on computers and
communications equipment over the ne xt twelve months also improved
noticeably; the number of respondents who said that their company planned to
increase spending rose from 43 percent in April to 57 percent in July.  Also, the
staff’s series on real adjusted durable goods orders increased in May and June,
more than reversing a sharp drop in Apr il.  The new-orders diffusion index from
the Institute of Supply Management incr eased in July for a fourth consecutive 
New Orders for Durable Goods 
(Percent change from preceding period except as noted; seasonally adjusted)
ComponentShare,
2002:
H2
(percent)2003
Q1 Q2 Apr. May June
Total orders 100.0 1.1 -1.0 -2.4 0.1 2.6
Adjusted orders175.0 0.2 -0.7 -2.6 2.0 1.3
Computers 4.0 -4.3 13.5 18.8 0.3 2.3 
Communication equipment 3.0 30.9 -9.0 -4.2 -6.2 -5.0
Other capital goods 24.0 2.1 -0.2 -5.7 1.8 2.5
Other244.0 -2.2 -1.6 -2.5 2.9 0.9
MEMO
Real adjusted orders     . . . 0.6 -0.4 -2.2 2.0 1.5
Excluding high tech    . . . -0.15 -1.14 -3.2 1.5 1.9
1. Orders excluding defense capital goods, nondefense aircraft, and motor
vehicle parts.
2. Primary metals, most fabricated metals, most stone, clay, and glass products,
household appliances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods.
. . .  Not applicable.
II-11
5. Furthermore, the new-orders diffusion indexes from each of the various regional surveys
moved up in June, and for those surveys for which we have a July reading, indexes either
increased or were little changed.  For all of the surveys, the most recent reading is above 50. 
6. The shortfall from the scheduled rate of 12.5 million units stemmed in part from a slower-
than-planned production of some new models at Ford.month and has been above 50 for the past three months.5  However, announced
manufacturing layoffs (not seasonally adjusted) increased significantly in Julyafter having slowly declined over the past several months.
Motor Vehicles
Sales of light vehicles m oved up sharply in July to an annual rate of 17.2 million
units, after sales of 16.2 million units in the second quarter and 15.8 million
units in the first quarter.  Estimates of the average incentive per vehicle jumped$430, to $2,260, in the second quarter and to $2,400 over the first four weeks of
July; the latest increase reflects, in part , new discount plans offered by Ford and
GM that are scheduled to last through the end of August.  According to the
Michigan Survey, car-buying attitudes remained high in July.  A largepercentage of respondents c ontinue to report that “good buys” are available and
that current financing rates remain attractive, consistent with the sweetenedincentives offered by automakers. 
The incoming data are sending mixed si gnals regarding business demand.  On a
positive note, sales of Class 8 (heavy) trucks have been strong of late, and netorders have stepped up fro m earlier in the year.  I ndustry contacts believe that
there is pent-up demand to replace existing heavy trucks; moreover, theybelieve that demand should be supported by the inves tment stimulus of the new
tax bill.  Further, preliminary data indicate that net new orders for mediumtrucks jumped in July.  In contrast, fleet sales of light vehicles were littlechanged in the second quarter and slippe d in July, a falloff partly reflecting
GM’s shifting of fleet sales from the third to fourth quarter.  Cutting throughthese swings, overall fleet sales so far this year are tracking a little below lastyear’s pace. 
Total motor vehicle production rose to  an annual rate of 11.9 million units in
June, and we estimate out put to have moved up a bit further to 12.1 million
units in July.
6  Given the strong sales outcome in July, we now are estimating
that days’ supply of light vehicles move d down in July to sixty-four days, a
level within the manufacturers’ target range.
The current contracts between the Un ited Auto Workers (UAW) and General
Motors, Ford, and Chrysler officially end September 14.  The UAW has already
started meeting with these automakers , although negotiati ons will probably not
begin in earnest until early September, when we expect a target company to benamed.  The Big Three have all announced their desire to negotiate a contract 
II-12
II-13
Production of Domestic Autos and Trucks
(Millions of units at an annual rate except as noted; FRB seasonal basis)
Item 2002 2003 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q31Apr. May June July1
U.S. production 12.4 12.4 11.7 12.5 11.7 11.5 11.9 12.5
Autos 4.9 4.7 4.4 4.7 4.4 4.4 4.5 4.5
Trucks 7.5 7.7 7.3 7.8 7.3 7.1 7.4 7.9
Days’ supply263 74 70 n.a. 71 71  70  64e
Inventories32.73 3.01 2.96 n.a. 3.01 2.97 2.96 2.91e 
NOTE. Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1. Production rates reflect Ward’s Communications’ latest schedules for Q3 and July.
2. Semiannual and quarterly values calculated with end-of-period stocks and average
reported sales; excludes medium and heavy trucks (classes 3-8).
3. End-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy trucks.
    n.a.  Not available
e   Staff estimate
with the UAW that will cut labor costs.  GM is particularly intent on lowering
health care costs.  Ford is focusing on shrinking its labor force; indeed, fully a
year and a half ago, it released a list of  four plants it would like to shutter. 
Although the UAW acknowledges the difficult economic position of the BigThree, its opening position is to expa nd workers’ and retirees’ health care
coverage and to propose an immediate and sizable increase in wages.  In
addition, a major priority of the UAW is  to turn around the long-term decline in
its membership.  Consequently, the UAW would like the Big Three to expandtheir use of unionized suppliers and to i nvest more within the United States.   
Consumer Spending   
Real personal consumption expenditure s picked up to an annual rate of 
3.3 percent in the second quarter, after a 2 percent increase in the first quarter. 
Spending on motor vehicles and other dur able goods rose briskly in the second
quarter, while other spending increased at a more modest pace.  Thefundamentals have become a bit more favorable:  Although real disposable
income posted only a modest gain in th e second quarter, it will get a substantial
boost in the current quarter from the re duction in tax withholding and from the
rebate checks being mailed out in July and August.  In addition, the levels of
both the stock market and consumer sentiment have recovered substantiallyfrom the declines seen earlier in the year.
Total real spending rose 0.1 percent in  June, as expenditures on motor vehicles
continued at the rapid pace seen in May, and outlays on other goods rose further. 
However, spending on services remain ed weak, in part because unseasonably
cool weather in June damped demand for energy services.  Auto sales, weekly
data on chain-store sales, and a return to more seasonable weather provide some 
II-14
II-15
II-16
7. Relative to the June Greenbook, the published saving rate has been revised down
0.2 percentage point in 2002:Q4 and 0.3 percentage point in 2003:Q1 owing to the BEA’s
incorporation of wage and salary data from state unemployment insurance tax records for the
third quarter of last year; these data showed that income was lower than the BEA had previously
assumed.
8. The Conference Board overall index is a composite of responses to five questions, one of
which asks consumers to assess current labor market conditions.  By contrast, the headline
Michigan index does not include responses to any question about labor market conditions,
though Michigan asks such a question separately.evidence that spending likely perked  up in July, although anecdotes from
retailers were mixed.
Real disposable personal income rose 0.1 percent in June, bringing the second-
quarter increase to an annual rate of 2.4 percent.  In the second quarter, gains in
consumer spending were a bit larger th an increases in income, and the personal
saving rate edged down to 3-1/4 percent.7  The ratio of net worth to disposable
personal income rose in the second quart er, and the stock ma rket has maintained
its first-half run-up through July, likely providing additional support to
household balance sheets.
The Michigan Survey Research Center’s index of consumer sentiment edged up
in July.  In contrast, the July read ing of the Conference Board’s index of
consumer confidence moved down somewh at.  The modest movement in the
Michigan index masked large, offsetting changes in the components:  A sizable
improvement in consumers’  assessments of current  economic conditions was
largely offset by a decline in the exp ected-conditions component of the index. 
The Conference Board’s i ndex reflected a fall in both components.  Both
surveys noted a less favorable employment outlook.8  Over the past few months,
the overall indexes have more  than reversed the steep declines posted earlier this
year and now are more in line w ith household sector fundamentals.
Housing Markets   
Boosted by declining mortgage rate s, housing construc tion and sales were
robust through June.  Althoug h rates have backed up since then, as yet there is
no sign of an impending slowdown: The index of purchase applications
compiled by the Mortgage Bankers Association reached a new high in the weekending August 1, and perceived homebuy ing conditions in the Michigan Survey
improved slightly as well.  
Starts of single-family houses rose in  June to an annua l rate of 1.46 million
units, one of the highest readings in twenty-five years.  New permit issuance—adjusted for activity in areas where permits are not required—increased to anannual rate of 1.47 million units  in June, and the backlog of unused permits was
only a touch below its record high; thes e indicators point to continued strength
in this sector early in the third quarter.  In the multifamily sector, starts were at 
II-17
II-18
II-19
9. The Board staff has been reporting a series for existing home sales that was seasonally
adjusted to eliminate trading-day variation, and therefore was preferable to the estimates
published by the National Association of Realtors (NAR) that lacked trading-day adjustment. 
The NAR has now revised its seasonal factors to adjust appropriately for trading days, and we
will no longer present the staff series.
10. Staff at Freddie Mac have concluded that th e first release of the repeat-sales price index,
which occurs shortly after the end of a quarter, has been understating the true price change.  This
bias stems from the lag between loan origination and closing, which implies that the first reading
of the index for a given quarter includes primarily loans originated in the first part of the quarter. 
In a period when prices are rising rapidly, this effect causes the first release of the repeat-sales
measure to underestimate the rate of price increas e.  For example, the year-over-year change in
the repeat-sales price index for the first quarter, initially reported as 6.4 percent, was revised up
to 6.9 percent with the release of the second-quarter data.  The percent change in the Census
Bureau’s index of constant-quality new home prices has also tended to be revised upward in
recent quarters.        
11. The second-quarter estimate for growth in spending on equipment and software is about
1/2 percentage point higher than the BEA’s advance estimate.  The increase is based on upward-
revised June data for shipments of capital goods, particularly in the high-tech category.an annual rate of 341,000 units in June, a bout the same as the average over the
past year and a half.  The vacancy ra te for multifamily rental housing rose to
10.6 percent in the second quarter, the hi ghest level in the thirty-five year
history of the series.
New home sales reached a high of 1.16 million units (annual rate) in June. 
Existing home sales edged down to 5.83 million units (annual rate), but this
pace was still the fifth-highest on record.9
House prices increased moderately in th e second quarter.  The four-quarter rise
in the quality-adjusted price of new hom es sold was 3.8 percent in the second
quarter, essentially the same as the preceding quarter and toward the lower endof the range seen in recent years.  The f our-quarter rise in the repeat-sales price
of existing homes was 5.2 percent in the second quarter, the smallest yearly rise
since early 1999.
10  
Equipment and Software
We now estimate that real business spending on equipment and softwareincreased at an annual rate of nearly 8 percent in the second quarter, after having
fallen nearly 5 percent in the first quarter.
11  Excluding the volatile
transportation sector, real outlays incr eased almost 11 percent in the second
quarter, a sizable jump following the lackluster performance of the precedinghalf-year.  Fundamentals are sending mixed  signals about investment prospects. 
The cost of capital is declining rapidly and this, together with the investmentincentives contained in the new tax la w, should help spur demand.  Moreover,
business output growth turned up in th e second quarter.  These positive factors
are tempered by slowing gains in corporate cash flow.  Nonetheless, the recentdata on orders and shipme nts of capital goods, as well as evidence from the
latest NABE industry survey, earnings re ports, and our own informal surveys, 
II-20
II-21
II-22
II-23
12. The BEA estimates that nonfarm inventory investment fell at an annual rate of
$17 billion in the second quarter.  This es timate incorporated June book-value data on
inventories held by manufacturers of durable goods, but it did not include information on
inventories held by retailers, wholesalers, and producers of nondurable goods.suggest a less pessimistic outlook for capita l spending than was evident earlier
in the year, particularly for high-tech goods.   
In the high-tech sector, real outlays incr eased at an annual ra te of 17 percent last
quarter after having risen 11 percent in the first quarter.  The first-half pickup
was led by a sharp acceleration in real pur chases of computers and software.  In
addition, real outlays on communications equipment posted sizable increases in
both the first and second quarters. 
In the transportation category, business spending on motor vehicles stagnated in
the second quarter despite a bounceback in  sales of medium and heavy trucks;
these sales appear to be reverting to tr end after having suffered a payback in the
preceding half-year related to the implementation last fall of new EPAregulations.  With domestic airlines mired in an air-travel downturn, real
business investment in aircraft is estimated to have decreased again in thesecond quarter to a level less than half that in the fourth quarter of 2001.
Real spending on equipment excluding hi gh-tech and transportation increased at
an annual rate of 5-1/2 pe rcent in the second quarter, more than reversing the
decline posted in the first quarter.  Nomin al orders and shipments in this broad
category increased in both May and June  after having been fairly flat, on
balance, over the preceding six months.  In June, orders st ood above the level of
shipments.
Business In ventories
Taking the latest data fo r inventory investment in  manufacturing in June, we
now estimate that real nonf arm inventories fell at an  annual rate of $17.5 billion
in the second quarter, after a $4 b illion increase in the first quarter.
12  The
change in nonfarm inventory investment is  estimated to have subtracted 3/4 of a
percentage point from the change in r eal GDP in the second quarter, about the
same drag as in the first quarter.  Excl uding motor vehicles, declines in nominal
stocks were largest for manufactur ers and wholesalers, and book-value
inventories stand at low leve ls by historical standard s relative to shipments and
sales for all categories of manufacturing and trade.
II-24
II-25
13. The Board staff’s flow-of-g oods system measures changes in inventories by tracking the
flow of goods in the economy.  The system divides the output from the sta ff’s industrial
production indexes into more than sixty different  product categories.  For each product category,
the system estimates the supply of goods flowing into the economy—that is, domestic
production plus imports.  The system then estimates how much of the supply flows out, whether
as final demand, including exports, or as inputs for other goods.  The difference between the
amount flowing in and the amount flowing out represents that change in inventories; we find
inventory accumulation if inflows exceed outflows  and inventory liquidation if outflows exceed
inflows.  The inventories are measured wherev er held and valued at factory-gate prices.
14. New Census data on the value of construction put in place (CPIP) in June, along with
revisions to historical figures dating back to 1993, were released after the advance GDP report.
The Census Bureau has changed its classification system for reporting data on nonresidential
construction.  The BEA will not convert its estimates to these new categories until the
comprehensive revision late this year.  Until then, it is bridging the data from the new categories
into the old ones using unpublished data from Census, and we are replicating the BEA’s
translation method. In June, days’ supply in the Board sta ff's flow-of-goods system edged down for
a fourth consecutive month.13  Excluding motor vehicles and parts, the
inventory-consumption ratio has, on ba lance, trended down since the end of
2001 and now stands at its lowest leve l since the series began in March 1978. 
The only industries with elevated levels  of days’ supply are motor vehicles,
paper, communications equipment, and, to  a lesser degree, electrical equipment.
Nonresidential Construction
Staff estimates that include monthly construction expenditures for June indicatethat real nonresidential structures spending  rose at about a 7 percent rate in the
second quarter, after having  fallen 25 percent from its peak at the end of 2000. 
However, other indicators sugge st that a sustained recovery  in this sector has yet
to become firmly established.
14 
We estimate that expenditures on office bu ildings declined at an annual rate of
3 percent last quarter, compared with a 13 percent decline in the first quarter. 
Also, a rise in the amount of occupied  office space of 6 million square feet in
the second quarter roughly offset the dec line of 7 million square feet in the first
quarter, and the vacancy rate for office buildings last quarter was nearlyunchanged, albeit at an elevated level.  The high level of the vacancy rate offerslittle incentive for new construction and suggests that spending may slip furtherin coming quarters.
Real outlays for industrial buildings decr eased at an annual rate of 4 percent in
the second quarter, after an 8 percen t decline during the first quarter. 
Expenditures for industrial structures ha ve fallen more than  70 percent since
early 1998.  The amount of occupied sp ace declined 12 million square feet in
the second quarter, and the vacancy ra te reached 11.6 percent—a little higher
than the peak vacancy rate in the early 1990s.
II-26
II-27
II-28
Spending for other commercial structures (which include retail space and
warehouses) edged up in the second quart er, the third consecutive quarter in
which expenditures have increased.  A 16 percent jump in outlays for
institutional buildings in the second quart er more than offset a first quarter
decline.  Expenditures for lodging and miscellaneous structures surged at an
annual rate of 33 percent.   Spending for drilling and mining structures rose
sharply at an annual rate of 55 percent.  In July, the number of natural gas
drilling rigs in operation increased, and the number of oil rigs was littlechanged, suggesting that spending in this category continued to rise.
Federal Government Sector   
The federal unified budget balance continue s to deteriorate; the deficit for the
twelve months ending in June deepened to $312 billion on surging outlays. Meanwhile, the Administration releas ed new budget projections showing
deficits well in excess of $400 billion for this fiscal year and next. 
Federal receipts in June were  6 percent above a year earlier; the rise reflected a
jump in corporate income tax collecti ons and a pickup in withheld individual
income and payroll taxes that have co me from  rising profits and wages; in
addition, withheld taxes were  boosted by an extra working day this June relative
to last year.  The size of the increases in these categories suggests that the Jobsand Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act, enacted in late May, had not yetmade a noticeable dent in these recei pts, although daily data indicate that
withheld tax payments slowed in Ju ly.  Meanwhile, nonwithheld individual
income taxes declined in June, which may indicate that certain taxpayersadjusted their payments for the new la w.   The IRS began issuing advance
refund checks to those who claimed the child tax credit on their 2002 tax returns
that sent $4.6 billion in refunds on July  25 and another $4.5 billion on August 1;
a final payout of about the same size is expected to be issued August 8.
Outlays, adjusted for financial transactions and payment-timing shifts, rose 
12 percent in June over year-earlier levels.  Double-di git increases were
widespread.  Defense spending rose 23 percent relative to a year earlier; the
second quarter NIPA data also show an enormous increase in real expenditures. 
Moreover, the recent daily data indicate that the elevated pace of defenseoutlays continued through July.  Outlays in June also included 
$3-1/2 billion of the temporary assistance for the states that was provided in theJobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act.  State governments areexpected to receive a total of $7-1/2 billion this fiscal year from temporary
assistance and increased Medicaid reimbursement rates.
The Office of Management and Budget’s  Mid-Session Review of the Budget
shows budget deficits of $455 billion in  fiscal 2003 and $475 billion in fiscal
2004.  Based on data in hand, this proj ection for fiscal 2003 appears overly
gloomy.  Indeed, OMB indicated in its report that fiscal 2003 outlays are likely 
II-29
II-30
II-31
15. Six states—California, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Nevada, Oregon, and
Pennsylvania—missed their July 1 deadlines for passing fiscal 2004 budgets.  The other two
states were Alabama and Michigan, whose fiscal years begin Oct. 1.
16. California ended fiscal 2003 with about a $10-1/2 billion shortfall in its general fund
account.to be lower than currently estimated, and in the interest of “cautious forecasting”
it held the receipts projection below what the data and tax models wouldforecast.  By contrast, the projec tion for fiscal 2004 does not make any
allowance for the supplemental funding wi dely seen as necessary to support the
anticipated scale of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Moreover, the Congress
is considering a number of proposals that would widen the deficit relative to the
Administration’s policies.  The additional proposals include new personal and
corporate income tax cuts, a new Me dicare prescription drug plan, and
nondefense discretionary spending bills that slightly exceed the
Administration’s proposals.
State and Local Government Sector
Incorporating the June data  on construction put in pl ace, we estimate that real
spending by state and local governments fell at an annual ra te of 0.5 percent in
the second quarter, as construction spendi ng fell sharply and real consumption
expenditures remained subdued.  Many  governments are not filling vacant
positions, and some are laying off workers.   In July, state and local employment
fell again, leaving the level of empl oyment almost 75,000 below its high in
February.
Although tax receipts and fees continued to fall short of current expenditures in
fiscal 2003 (which, for most jurisdictions , ended on June 30), most states appear
to have satisfied the balanced budget requirements governin g their general funds
accounts.  According to a recent survey  from the National Conference of State
Legislatures (NCSL), forty-two stat es completed action on their budgets by
July 1, and of these only South Carolina and Wisconsin reporte d that they ended
fiscal 2003 with deficits.
15   To help make ends meet during fiscal 2003, many
states restrained general fund spending; in  roughly one-third of the states, outlays
actually declined.  In addition, taxes we re raised, on net, in fiscal 2003 after
seven straight years of tax cuts, and many states once again dipped into rainy-day
and other reserve accounts.  Further, a number of states passed tax hikes
designed to raise fiscal 2004 collections , and apparently by a somewhat greater
amount, on net, than was enacted last year. 
In late July the California legislatur e passed a general fund budget designed to
close the estimated $38 billion gap for the tw o-year period spanning fiscal years
2003 and 2004.16  Most of the deficit-clos ing centered on borrowing—largely
through deficit-reduction bonds —and spending cuts.  Even so, in the absence of
further corrective actions, the state could end fiscal 2005 with a shortfall of
nearly $8 billion, according to estimate s from the California Legislative
II-32
17. The drop in tobacco prices in June will likel y be reversed because of increases in state
tobacco excise taxes effective in July.Analyst’s office.  The only significant re venue hike in the budget agreement was
a tripling of the car tax to pre –1998 levels, which wa s implemented by
administrative order and did not require a vote by legislators.
Prices
Consumer prices have been buffeted by si zable swings in energy prices so far
this year.  On net, energy prices in the consumer price index are up sharply over
the past year, compared with large declines in the preceding year.  As a result,the overall CPI was up 2.1 percent over th e twelve months ending in June,
compared with a 1.1 percent increase reco rded during the year-earlier period.  In
contrast, core rates of  inflation have slowed sharply this year.
Consumer energy prices moved up 0.8 percent in June, largely because of
increases in the prices of natural gas and motor fuel.  The rise in gasoline pricesreflects a run-up in spot crude oil prices  since early May, and survey data point
to a further increase in the gasoline CPI in July.  Natural gas inventories haverisen rapidly in recent months because of mild temperatures and distributors’
desire to rebuild depleted stocks; even so, the level of inventories is still11 percent below the seasonal norm.
A 0.4 percent rise in consumer food prices  in June reflected sharp increases in
prices for fruits, vegetables, and meat.  The June increases came despite the lackof any obvious upward pressure from spot prices for farm commodities.  Since
June, good weather has set the stage for bumper harvests, and spot prices for
most crops and livestock have fallen (e xcept cattle, for which strong demand, a
nascent rebuilding of breeding herds, a nd a ban on imports fro m Canada all have
lifted prices).  Food away from home,  about 40 percent of the overall food
category, posted a 0.2 percent increase in June.
Excluding food and energy, the CPI was unc hanged in June, after an increase of
0.3 percentage point in May.  On a tw elve-month basis, core consumer prices
increased only 1.5 percent, a pace well below the 2.3 percent increase recorded
during the comparable year-earlier peri od, but still about 1/2 percentage point
above our point estimate of the measuremen t bias in this series.  The index for
core goods continued to decline last month and now stands 1.8 percent below its
level a year ago.  Declines in goods pr ices have been widespread over the past
year and have even included tobacco, for which prices rose quite rapidly over the
previous five years.
17  Core services prices ed ged up last month after having
jumped 1/2 percent in May.  On balan ce, however, these prices have decelerated
by the same amount as goods prices ove r the preceding twelve months.  Looking
ahead, budget problems have led many st ates to announce sharp tuition increases 
II-33
II-34
II-35
at state universities for the coming school year; such increases should show up in
the CPI in August and September.
Core PCE prices rose 0.2 percent in June and increased 1.3 percent over the
twelve months ending in June, compar ed with a 1.7 percent increase over the
preceding year.  The 0.4 percentage point  deceleration in the PCE measure of
core inflation is half the size of the deceleration in the core CPI over the sameperiod, a difference that larg ely reflects the wider scope of PCE prices.  Over the
past year, there has been a noticeable acceleration in the prices of PCE items thatare not included in the CPI and for whic h no market-based prices exist.  By
contrast, the market-based component of the core PCE price index increased only
0.7 percent over the twelve months ending  in June, and has decelerated by about
the same amount as has the core CPI.  The latest twelve-month reading is only a
few tenths of a percentage point above our estimate of the measurement bias in
this index.  The core portion of the chained CPI, which, like the PCE measure,
uses a superlative aggregation form ula to take account of substitution by
consumers in response to changes in re lative prices, rose 1 percent over the
twelve months ending in June, a deceleration of 3/4 percentage point from theprevious year.  
According to the PPI, capital equipment pr ices edged down in June after a slight
increase in May.  On balance, these prices are unchanged from their level in June2002.  Although the prices of transporta tion equipment have been quite volatile
(owing to changing incentives for purch ases of light motor vehicles), they
decelerated on net over the first half of this year.  Computer prices continued tofall rapidly over the twelve months ending in June, but at a slightly slower pace
than a year ago.  However, the prices of capital equipment apart from high-techhave firmed somewhat, on balance. 
After rising briskly in the first quarter of the year, the PPI for core intermediate
materials was essentially unchanged from April through June; the measure washeld down by the indirect effects of the Ap ril and May declines in the cost of oil
inputs for plastics, fertilizers, industria l chemicals and other energy-intensive
products.  The major indexes of spot co mmodity prices have moved up since the
June Greenbook.  The Journal of Comme rce industrial price index is up
6 percent, partly because of a pickup in prices of metals a nd crude oil but mostly
because of a supply-related jump in the price of plywood.  The CommodityResearch Bureau’s spot industrial co mmodity price index, which excludes
energy and forest products, increased 0.6 percent over the past month and a half.
The past year’s rise in a number of broa d measures of inflation mainly reflects
the surge in energy prices, while core price indexes have generally decelerated. For example, the four-quarter change in the chain-type price index for GDP was1.5 percent in the second quarter, comp ared with 1.1 percent in the second
quarter of 2002.  Excluding food and energy , however, the four-quarter change in 
II-36
II-37
II-38
II-39
18. The five-to-ten-year inflation compensation built into indexed Treasury bonds has
increased about 3/4 percentage point since the June FOMC meeting and currently stands at about
3 percent. 
19.  Looking forward to 2004, health insurance premiums for California’s public employees
retirement system (Calpers) are set to increase 16 percent after having risen 24 percent in 2003.the core GDP price index was 1.3 percen t, down 0.2 percentage point from the
pace recorded a year earlier.  Price i ndexes for components of GDP apart from
consumer expenditures, pa rticularly for investment  in both residential and
nonresidential structures, have firmed, on balance, over the past year.   
Inflation expectations for the coming year turned down sharply in July,
according to the Michigan Survey.  Me dian expected one-year inflation, at
1.7 percent, was lower than any reading on record except for the ones that were
taken in the immediate aftermath of September 11th.  (This series had itsinception in 1978).  As usual, though, the survey showed little movement inmedian consumer expectations of inflati on over the next five to ten years, which
stand at 2.7 percent.  The Philadelphia Fed’s most recent quarterly survey of
professional forecasters’ long-term inflation expectations likewise remainedunchanged at 2.5 percent.
18 
Labor Costs
The Employment Cost Index (ECI) for hourly compensation in private industry
rose at an annual rate of 3.4 percent over the three mont hs ending in June after
posting a 5.5 percent increase over the pr evious three-month period.  The wage
and salary component of the index rose at an annual rate of 2.5 percent for the
three months ending in June, while be nefit costs rose at a 5.5 percent rate.
Over the twelve months ending in J une, private-industry hourly compensation
rose 3.5 percent, 0.5 percenta ge point less than in the preceding year.  The slower
rise in compensation reflected a deceleration in wages and salaries; the twelve-month change in this series fell to  2.6 percent from 3.6 percent in June 2002. 
Wage deceleration was widespread but was most marked for service-producing
industries such as trade; by contrast , wages accelerated sharply for workers in
construction and in the finance, insu rance, and real estate industries. 
In contrast to wages and salaries, hour ly benefit costs accelerated 1 percentage
point over the past year; the latest  twelve-month change now stands at
6.1 percent.  Although the cost of private- sector health insurance rose a bit less
rapidly than in the previous twelve-m onth period, the increase still was sizable—
10.3 percent.
19  At the same time, a number of  other benefit components rose
substantially faster.  In particular, over the twelve months ending in June,
workers’ compensation accelerated in re sponse to the earlier pickup in health
insurance costs; retirement and savings costs accelerated as firms replenisheddefined-benefit pens ion reserves that had been depleted by the earlier stock
II-40
market slump; and the increase in state unemployment insurance costs was
boosted by the rise in the level of claims.
Very little information on labor costs is available for the third quarter.  Average
hourly earnings of production or nonsupe rvisory workers on private nonfarm
payrolls rose 0.3 percent in July.  Over th e twelve months ending in July, average
hourly earnings increased 3.1 percent, a shade above the pace a year earlier.
II-41
II-42
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1
Selected Financial Market Quotations
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted)
    Change to Aug. 5 from
2000 2001 2003 2003 selected dates (percentage points)
Instrument 2000 2001 2003
  June 26 Sept. 10 June 24 Aug. 5 June 26 Sept. 10 June 24
Short-term
FOMC intended federal funds rate 6.50 3.50 1.25 1.00 -5.50 -2.50 -.25
Treasury bills 1
     3-month 5.66 3.19 0.81 0.94 -4.72 -2.25 .13
     6-month 5.94 3.13 0.82 1.03 -4.91 -2.10 .21
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates)
     1-month 6.56 3.42 0.91 1.03 -5.53 -2.39 .12
     3-month 6.56 3.24 0.88 1.04 -5.52 -2.20 .16
Large negotiable CDs 1
     1-month 6.64 3.46 0.96 1.07 -5.57 -2.39 .11
     3-month 6.73 3.26 0.93 1.08 -5.65 -2.18 .15     6-month 6.89 3.24 0.92 1.14 -5.75 -2.10 .22
Eurodollar deposits 2
     1-month 6.63 3.41 0.94 1.05 -5.58 -2.36 .11
     3-month 6.69 3.26 0.91 1.07 -5.62 -2.19 .16
Bank prime rate 9.50 6.50 4.25 4.00 -5.50 -2.50 -.25
Intermediate- and long-term
U.S. Treasury3
      2-year 6.54 3.59 1.14 1.91 -4.63 -1.68 .77     10-year 6.35 5.14 3.46 4.70 -1.65 -.44 1.24
     30-year 6.22 5.55 4.53 5.53 -.69 -.02 1.00
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 4.08 3.28 1.70 2.44 -1.64 -.84 .74
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 45.99 5.25 4.89 5.42 -.57 .17 .53
Private instruments
     10-year swap 7.38 5.62 3.67 4.95 -2.43 -.67 1.28
     10-year FNMA57.19 5.68 3.84 5.06 -2.13 -.62 1.22
     10-year AA 67.64 6.30 4.13 5.37 -2.27 -.93 1.24
     10-year BBB 68.40 7.11 5.16 6.27 -2.13 -.84 1.11
     High-yield 712.30 12.72 9.03 9.57 -2.73 -3.15 .54
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 8
     30-year fixed 8.14 6.89 5.21 6.14 -2.00 -.75 .93
     1-year adjustable 7.22 5.64 3.51 3.68 -3.54 -1.96 .17
   Change to Aug. 5 
Record high 2001 2003 from selected dates (percent)
Stock exchange index Record 2001 2003
   Level Date Sept. 10 June 24 Aug. 5 high Sept. 10 June 24
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 9,606 9,110 9,036 -22.92 -5.93 -.81
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 1,093 983 965 -36.79 -11.63 -1.83Nasdaq (OTC) 5,049 3-10-00 1,695 1,606 1,674 -66.85 -1.29 4.23Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 441 441 457 -24.53 3.79 3.76Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 10,104 9,388 9,306 -36.91 -7.90 -.87
       1.  Secondary market.
       2.  Bid rates for eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time.       3.  Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities.       4.  Most recent Thursday quote.       5.  Constant maturity yields estimated from Fannie Mae domestic non-callable coupon securities.       6.  Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data.       7.  Merrill Lynch Master II high-yield bond.       8.  For week ending Friday previous to date shown.       _______________________________________________________________________
       NOTES:         June 26, 2000, is the day before the FOMC meeting that ended the most recent period of policy tightening.
         September 10, 2001 is the day before the terrorist attacks.         June 21, 2003, is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting.       _______________________________________________________________________
Aug. Jan. May Oct. Mar. Aug. Jan.
2003 2004 20051.01.52.02.53.03.54.04.5
June 24, 2003August 5, 2003Expected Federal Funds Rates Estimated from
Financial FuturesPercent
    Note.  Estimates from federal funds and eurodollar futures rates with an allowance for term premia and other adjustments. 
 August 5, 2003
June 24, 2003Implied Distribution of Federal Funds Rate,
150 Days AheadProbability
    Note. Derived from options on eurodollar futures contracts, 
adjusted to estimate expectations for the federal funds rate.051015202530354045
0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75
  or more
1357 1 0012345
June 24, 2003August 5, 2003Treasury Yield Curve
Maturity in yearsPercent
     Note.  Smoothed yield curve estimated using off-the-run Treasury
coupon securities.  Yields shown are those on notional par Treasury
securities with semiannual payments.1990 1993 1996 1999 2002 4 6 810121416Percent
 Month-endImplied Volatilities
Ten-year TreasuryLong-term Treasury bond
++
+ August 5.
3456789Long-Term Interest Rates
DailyPercent
    *Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency.10-year BBB
30-year municipal*
10-year TreasuryJune 25
FOMC
Aug. 5
Jan. May Sept. Jan. May Sept. Jan. May Sept.
2001 2002 20031.01.52.02.53.03.5JulyAug. 5
Aug. 5Michigan survey**
5-year,
5-yr  ahead*
5-year*PercentInflation Expectations
*Daily TIIS-based inflation rate at which the price of the indexed securit y
equals the value of a portfolio of zero-coupon securities that replicates
its payments.  **Monthly median 5- to 10-year inflation expectations.June 25 
FOMC 
June Oct. Feb. June Oct. Feb. June
2001 2002 2003Selected Interest Rates
Domestic Financial Developments
Overview
During the intermeeting period, investors read a confluence of developments as
signaling more favorable economic prospects and a reduced chance of 
“substantial unwelcome disinf lation.”   Investors appear  to have keyed in on the
June FOMC announcement of a smaller-t han-expected quarter-point policy
easing, the Chairman’s subsequent mone tary policy testimony coupled with the
economic forecasts of FOMC members,  and the generally upbeat tone of
incoming economic data and earnings ne ws.  Against this backdrop, interest
rates rose substantially across the maturity and credit spectrum, with Treasuriesand other high-grade instruments—esp ecially swaps—recording the largest
increases.  The more sanguine econo mic outlook also resulted in further
significant declines in risk spreads for speculative-grade bonds.  Broad stock
price indexes were down slightly, but small-cap and technology shares
outperformed the broader market.
The increase in longer-term interest rates put a damper on the issuance of
investment-grade corporate bonds, and total net borrowing by nonfinancial
business has been weak.  In the household sector, the rise in mortgage rates has
pared the volume of new applications for mortgage refinancing in recent weeks,but overall, the growth of household debt appears to have slowed only
moderately from the rapid pace earlier this year.  State and local governmentshave continued to issue s ubstantial amounts of debt, and federal borrowing has
remained brisk.
Policy Expectations and Interest Rates
Market participants had priced in substa ntial odds of a 50 basis point cut in the
federal funds rate target at the June FOMC meeting, and the announcement of a
quarter-point ease prompted a backup in in terest rates.  Ne ws reports following
the announcement also cited the absen ce of any mention of “unconventional”
monetary policy as being a factor in the initial rise in yields.  Investors laternoted the statement in the Chairman’s monetary policy testimony that cited theFOMC’s intent to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policyfor as long as necessary to foster a return to satisfactory economic performance. But they seemed to be more impressed by statements that deflationary scenarios
were quite remote and by the economic forecasts of FOMC members, whichwere more optimistic than market participants had anticipated.  The expectedpath for the funds rate moved up substan tially again after the testimony and still
more over the remainder of the interm eeting period on genera lly stronger-than-
expected economic data.  On net, the ex pected path of policy shifted up about 50
basis points by the spring of next year  and more than 150 basis points by the
latter part of 2005. 
III-2
III-3
The change in policy expectations and economic outlook spurred a sharp
steepening of the Treasury yield curve, and trading conditions were, at times,volatile and choppy.  Judging from indexed debt yields, most of the increase in
nominal yields reflected a rise in real interest rates.  Changes in TIIS yieldssuggest that inflation compensation moved hi gher as well, partic ularly five to ten
years ahead, despite little change in survey measures of longer-term inflationexpectations.  Market commentary c ited hedging-relate d transactions by
investors in mortgage-backed securities as an important factor that amplified therise in longer-term yields over this period and that contributed to the recent run-up in implied volatilities of these yields.  A worsening fiscal outlook also mayhave played some role in boosting long-term rates.
Stock Prices and Corporate Interest Rates
Broad indexes of equity pr ices were down slightly, on net, over the intermeeting
period.  Technology and small-cap stocks  significantly outperformed the overall
market, as market participan ts continued to believe that  those sectors would be a
prime beneficiary of an economic upturn.  At the same time, the impliedvolatility index on the S&P 100 (VIX) has edged up a little since the last FOMC
meeting but remained near the low end of its range in recent years.
Early in the intermeeting period, equity pr ices rose on expectations that second-
quarter earnings reports would handily beat earlier forecasts, which they did. 
Despite the favorable earnings news, th e recent run-up in bond yields weighed
on the stock market, leaving the Wilshire 5000 down 0.9 percent over theintermeeting period.  With the small declin e in stock prices, the gap between the
year-ahead earnings-price ratio and the real ten-year Treasury yield—a rough
measure of the equity premium—has narrowed somewhat further recently,though it remains wide by historical standards. 
Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds rose about as much as those on
comparable Treasury securities over th e intermeeting period, leaving their
spreads unchanged or down a touch.  In contrast, spreads for speculative-grade
issues fell substantially and are at thei r lowest level since the spring of 2000.
Business Finance
Bond issuance by investment-grade nonfinan cial firms slowed abruptly in July,
depressed by the spike in long-term yiel ds.  In contrast, the issuance of high-
yield bonds continued at a robust pace, as  yields on these bonds rose much less
than Treasury rates.  Comme rcial paper outstanding turn ed up in July after four
consecutive months of decline.  On a re ported basis, C&I loans outstanding also
rose last month; however, it appears th at these loans would have declined by
III-4
III-5
1. Under FASB’s recent accounting guidance on special-purpose entities (FIN 46), domestic
commercial banks are required to consolidate th e assets and liabilities of certain special-purpose
entities onto their balance sheets, unless these entities are restructured.  The bulk of theconsolidation to date was reflected in the bank credit data for the week of July 2, 2003.roughly $6 billion if not for changes in accounting required by FIN 46.1  This
run-off occurred in the first week of July; in more recent weeks, C&I loans havebeen relatively stable.  All told, net borrowing by businesses appears to have
been quite weak in July.
This picture of sluggish borrowing is consistent with responses to the August
2003 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey , which indicated that demand for C&I
loans weakened further over the past three months.  At the same time, the netfraction of banking institutions that reported having tightened lending standardson C&I loans declined to a very lo w level in August, and domestic banks
reported easing spreads on these loans, on net, for the first time since 1998.
Gross issuance of public equity by nonfinancial firms inched up over the
intermeeting period, as the IPO market be gan to show signs of life after a long
drought.  Although the numbers are nothi ng like those in the go-go period from
mid-1998 to mid-2001, several IPOs by nonfinancial firms—totaling about $1
billion—were well received by the market in recent weeks, and $1 billion in new
offerings are on the calendar for the near future.  In contrast to the pickup in
IPOs, seasoned equity offerings continued to be sluggish in July. Venture-capital
investment rose slightly in the second qua rter, the first increase after a three-year
plunge in funding.  Merger completions remained sluggish in the second quarter
as did actual share repurchases.  With gross new equity offerings still at a lowlevel, net equity issuance remained firmly in negative territory in the secondquarter.
Focusing on the most recent trends, a nnouncements of new merger deals rose
appreciably over the intermeeting peri od.  On the other hand, announcements of
new share repurchase programs ground to  a halt, perhaps because of the
elimination of preferential tax treatment for share buybacks relative to dividends. 
Corporate Earnings and Credit Quality
With about 400 of the S&P 500 firms repor ting so far, second-quarter earnings
have exceeded analysts’ forecasts by a wide margin, leaving quarterly earningsup about 8 percent compared with a year  earlier.  Moreover, even though the
forward-looking guidance in these reports  was fairly limited, Ju ly was the third
straight month with no downward revi sions, on balance, to the year-ahead
forecasts of S&P earnings; this pattern contrasts sharply with that of recentyears.  The financial sector has rema ined the standout performer, helped by
III-6
III-7
mortgage refinancing activity, bond underwr iting fees, and reduced credit losses. 
Outside of the financial sector, profit increases were achieved mainly through
continued cost-cutting measures in the face of tepid revenue growth. 
Multinational industrial firms also ha ve reported stronger-than-expected
revenues and earnings, wh ich were boosted in part by the weak dollar. 
Measures of corporate credit quality, while still indicative of heightened stress,
have continued to impr ove recently.  The volume of bond ratings upgrades—a
backward-looking indicator —increased modestly in the second quarter, while
downgrades shrank further.  Although th e bond default rate tic ked up in July, it
has fallen substantially th is year and has unwound the run-up that began in early
2001.  The forecast of aggregate year-ah ead defaults based on the KMV model
continued its descent in June owing to higher equity prices and lower market
volatility.  
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial mortgage debt increased at  an estimated 7.5 per cent annual rate in
the second quarter of this year.  Focu sing on the CMBS market—for which we
have more timely data than for other types of commercial mortgage debt—grossissuance was strong in the second quarter.  CMBS offerings have held up so far
in the third quarter, even though yields on all grades of CMBS rose sharply over
the intermeeting period, mirroring the rise  in longer-term Treasuries.  The most
recent delinquency indicators suggest con tinued slow erosion, on net, in the
credit quality of commercial mortgages, but delinquency rates remain far below
the levels recorded in the early 1990s, and spreads of CMBS over swaps are still
at the low end of their range in the past several years.
Household Finance
Rates on thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages have risen steeply from their mid-June
lows.  ARM rates also have increased over this period, although more modestly. 
With higher rates, new applications fo r refinancings dropped back significantly
in July, but the estimated dollar volume of mortgage refinancings remained at ahigh level in July as earlier deals were  completed.  In the second quarter, home
mortgage debt grew at an annual rate of  about 10 percent, not quite as robust as
the first quarter’s 12 percent pace.
Consumer credit continued to expand at  a moderate pace, growing about 5
percent (annual rate) in the second qua rter.  In recent months, captive auto
finance companies continued to offer zero percent financing and cash-back
incentives, and consumers responded by fina ncing larger shares of their vehicle
purchases and extending loan maturity.   The average loan-to-value ratio of new
car loans financed by these companies rose from 90 percent in January 2001 to a
III-8
III-9
III-10
III-11
record 97 percent in recent months, while the average maturity rose from fifty-
four months to a record sixty-two months.
Consumer credit quality has held stead y, on balance, w ith delinquencies at
securitized pools of credit card receivables  ticking up in May and those at auto
finance companies edging down in June.  However, some poc kets of distress
remain, as bankruptcy filings are still r unning above last year’s levels.   
Responses to the August Senior Loan  Officer Survey suggest that banks’
concerns about household credit quality ha ve, if anything, diminished somewhat
of late.  According to the survey, th e net fraction of ba nks that reported
tightening standards on loans to househol ds fell from its already low levels of
the past few surveys, and small net fractions of financial institutions reported
easing spreads on consumer loans.  
The ratio of household assets to disposab le income rose in the second quarter,
reflecting the run-up in equity prices.  In  July, investors continued to put money
into equity mutual funds.  In contra st, bond funds—which suffered capital losses
as rates rose—experienced outflows last month, particul arly in the latter part of
the month.
State and Local Government Finance
The pace of municipal bond issuance re mained robust over the intermeeting
period, as persistent fiscal pressures generated record le vels of short-term
borrowing and an increased reliance on long-term bond financing of capital
projects.  Nonetheless, municipal yields  rose less than Treasuries, and muni-to-
Treasury yield ratios retreated somewhat from recent highs.
With the exception of California, news  about the credit quality of municipal
issues has been generally positive since the last FOMC meeting.  In California,budget problems and political uncertain ty surrounding the upcoming recall
election led S&P to downgrade $26.8 billi on of the state’s general-obligation
debt in late July to just a bit above  speculative grade.  Apart from bonds issued
by the State of California, the numbe r of upgrades relative to downgrades
increased substantially during the past few months, and the yield spread of BBB-rated over AAA-rated municipal bonds ha s edged off a little, though it remains
elevated by historical standards. 
Treasury and Agency Finance
The pace of federal borrowing remained  brisk over the intermeeting period, and
the Treasury boosted its estima te of federal funding n eeds over the third quarter. 
Failures to deliver securities in the Treasury market recently reached their
highest level since the turmoil after September 11, 2001.  In the market for
III-12
III-13

III-14
2. Our rough estimate is that FIN 46 has boosted banks’ assets an d liabilities by $77 billion
thus far, with the liabilities reported almost entirely in the large-time-deposit component of M3.mortgage-backed instruments, fails have trended up since late  last year.  With
interest rates at low levels, the cost of failing to deliver securities is modest,contributing to the high level of fails.  In any case, market participants report
that the elevated level of fails does not seem to have had much of an effect on
liquidity in fixed-income markets.
     
Agency market participants continue d to concentrate on management and
accounting problems at Freddie Mac and on whether such problems could also
affect Fannie Mae.  Fannie and Freddie have not faced difficulties in issuing
new securities; although liquidity in sec ondary markets for their debt is said to
have deteriorated, the worsening was due in part to the volatility in generalmarket conditions.  Late in the interm eeting period, reports that foreign central
banks were selling agency debt pushed risk spreads for Fannie and Freddie tothe highest levels of the year.  In add ition, an internal investigation of Freddie
Mac’s problems released in the latter part  of July raised concerns about the
involvement of its current ma nagement in accounting deceits. 
Money and Bank Credit
M2 continued to grow briskly in June and July.  The strong growth seemed to
arise in large part from the near-zero opportunity cost of holding money, the
reduction in personal income  tax withholdings that became effective in the
middle of June, and a bulge in escrow  accounts related to MBS prepayments. 
This growth was concentrated in liqui d deposits, as the three-year runoff of
small time deposits accelerated after the policy easing in June.  Recent demand
for currency has been weak, in part because of a large drop in demand fromabroad.
Although M3 grew moderately in June, it su rged in July owing to a jump in both
institutional money funds and large time  deposits.  Institutional money funds
swelled in response to the temporary wi dening of the spread between money
fund yields and short-term market rates after the June  monetary policy easing. 
Large time deposits were boos ted dramatically in July  by the consolidation of
special-purpose entities onto bank balan ce sheets as required by the recently
implemented FIN 46 accounting rule.
2   After removing the effects of FIN 46,
M3 rose at a 10-3/4 percent pace in July , a rate just a bit above that of M2.
On a reported basis, bank credit expanded rapidly in June and July, reflecting
accounting changes brought about by FIN 46; after correcting for these effects,
we estimate that bank credit ro se at about a 6-1/4 percen t annual rate in June and
III-15
III-16
III-17
at about a 3 percent rate in July.  Bu siness loans were especially weak both
months, possibly because of pa ydowns from heavy bond issuance. 
Appendix
August 2003 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey
The August 2003 Senior Loan  Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices
addressed changes in the supply of, and demand for, bank loans to businesses andhouseholds over the past three months.  In addition, the survey contained a
supplementary question on potential demand for commercial and industrial (C&I)loans, as well as special questions on measures taken by banks to support the returns ontheir business loans in response to declinin g net interest margins.  This appendix is
based on responses from fifty-six domestic and seventeen foreign banking institutions.
The net fraction of banking institutions repor ting that they tightened lending standards
on C&I loans over the past three months declined to very low levels in August.  Inaddition, domestic banks reported having eased spreads on those loans, on net, for thefirst time since 1998.  Banks that eased terms reported that they had done so inresponse to increased competition from nonbank lenders, which is consistent withreports of increased institutional involvemen t in the syndicated loan market.  Demand
for C&I loans weakened further over the past three months in large part because ofdecreased investment in plant and equipm ent.  However, banks reported a small
increase, on net, in inquiries regarding new financing.  More than half the respondents
reported having used higher  upfront fees to support returns on C&I loans, and some
banks indicated that they had made limited use of interest rate floors for the same
purpose. 
The net fractions of banks reporting that they tightened standards on loans to
households fell from their moderate levels of the past few surveys.  Moreover, smallnet fractions of financial institutions reporte d having eased spreads on consumer loans. 
Compared with the two previous surveys, si gnificantly larger net fractions of banks in
the August survey reported increased demand both for home mortgages and forconsumer loans.
Lending to Businesses
In the August survey, the net percentage of domestic banks that reported having
tightened standards on C&I loans to large and middle-market firms over the past threemonths fell further, to 2 percent, from 9 pe rcent in the April survey.  Similarly, a
significantly smaller net fraction of domestic  banks reported having tightened standards
to small firms.  On net, lending standards at branches and agencies of foreign banks
were unchanged in August, whereas in Apr il, 33 percent of those institutions, on net,
had reported having tightened.
In addition, markedly fewer domestic banks indicated that they had tightened terms on
C&I loans, and some terms were eased, on net.  Indeed, for the first time since themarket turmoil of 1998, small net fractions of domestic banks reported having reducedspreads of loan rates over cost of funds fo r borrowers of all sizes.  On net, banks
reported that the costs of credit lines to large and middle-market borrowers were aboutunchanged, compared with 18 percent that i ndicated tightening in the previous survey;
however, a notable net fraction of respondent s have continued to reduce the size of
those lines.  Despite the narrowing of risk spreads in secondary markets, a significant
III-A-2
net fraction of domestic banks continued to report having increased premiums charged
on riskier loans to borrowers of all sizes.  Similarly, the net fraction of foreign banks
reporting that they tightened lending terms was smaller in the August survey than in the
April survey, although the fraction that redu ced the size of credit lines and charged
higher premiums on riskier loans remained elevated.    
Sixty-four percent of the domestic banks th at tightened lending standards and terms
indicated concern about the economic outlook as an important reason for doing so,
down from more than 90 percent in April.  In addition, somewhat fewer banks than in
April indicated that industr y-specific problems were a reason for tightening.  Despite
reduced fractions of banks expressing concern about the economic outlook and
industry-specific problems, and in contrast to an apparent decline in risk aversion by
other classes of investors, banks continued to reduce their tolerance for risk.  Indeed,
about 75 percent of domestic banks that tightened standards and terms on C&I loanscited a lower tolerance for risk, making it the most commonly reported reason.  Bycontrast, almost all of the foreign institu tions that tightened standards and terms
remained concerned about the economic ou tlook and industry-specific problems while
also reporting a reduced tolerance for risk. 
Domestic banks, on net, continued to report that demand from large and middle-market
firms had weakened over the past three m onths, but that fraction declined noticeably
from almost 40 percent in April to about 20 pe rcent in the current survey.  Similarly, a
somewhat smaller net fraction of banks reported weaker demand from small firms.  Forbanks that reported weaker demand, the most important reason continued to be
decreased investment in plant and equi pment by their customers.  Banks that
experienced increased demand cited numerous r easons for the rise.  In contrast to the
experience of domestic banks, the same number of foreign institutions reported thatdemand had weakened as reported that it had increased.  In response to a specialquestion about the prospective demand for C&I loans, both domestic respondents and
branches and agencies of foreign banks i ndicated that, on net, the number of inquiries
from potential borrowers had risen somewh at over the past three months.  
With interest rates having recently reached historically low levels, banks have been
reporting downward pressure on their net interest margins.  More than 60 percent of
foreign and domestic banks said that increased fees charged on credit lines have beenimportant in supporting the return on busin ess lending.  About 40 percent of domestic
banks and a few foreign banks reported that they had increased their use of interest ratefloors; however, most banks reported that fe wer than 5 percent of their C&I loans had
interest rate floors.  Moreover, of the sixt een domestic banks that stated that a material
fraction of their C&I loans were subject to an  interest rate floor, half of those banks
indicated that the floors were  binding on less than 40 percent of those loans.  The vast
majority of respondents reported that they ha d not increased the average maturity or the
risk profile of their C&I loan portfolio to support their net interest margins.  
Commercial real estate lending.  The net fraction of domestic banks that reported
tightening standards on commercial real estate loans fell to 12 percent, a level near the
bottom of its recent range.  Only one foreign institution reported having tightenedstandards in August.  Demand for commercial real estate loans continued to erode; in
III-A-3
the August survey, 9 percent of domestic banks, on net, reported a decline in demand,
down from 29 percent in April.  At fo reign banks, demand was also weaker.
 
Lending to Households
The net share of banks that reported strong er demand for residential mortgage loans
increased for the second consecutive survey, to about 45 percent, compared with 17
percent in April and 8 percent in January.  Three banks said that demand wassubstantially stronger during the past thr ee months.  Concurrently, the net fraction of
banks that reported having tightened standards on residential mortgages fell from 12percent in January to 6 percent in Apr il to 2 percent in the current survey.
A significantly larger net fraction of bank s indicated that they were more willing to
make consumer loans in the current survey than had been the case since 1999. Consistent with this report, no banks tig htened standards on credit card loans, while
small fractions of banks again reported having eased spreads and reduced the requiredminimum monthly payments on these loans.  Six percent of banks, on net, tightened
standards for consumer loans other than cr edit cards, down from 12 percent in April. 
In addition, a few banks, on net, reported that they had narrowed spreads and had
extended maturities on these loans.  Reported demand for consumer loans jumped inthe current survey; about 30 percent of re spondents, on net, indicated an increase in
demand, compared with a small reported net decrease in demand during the previous
survey period.  
III-A-4
III-A-5
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S. International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The U.S. international trade deficit in May was $41.8 billion, $0.2 billion larger
than in April (revised), as imports of goods and services increased slightly morethan exports.  For April-May, on average, the deficit was $501 billion at anannual rate, $15 billion larger than in the first quarter.
Following a decline in April, exports of goods and services rose 0.9 percent in
May, with both the value of exported goods and the value of services receiptsrising.  The largest movements in goods were increases in capital goods(machinery) and automotive products.  These increases were partly offset bydeclines in the value of exported agricultural products, industrial supplies, andaircraft.  For April-May combined, the level of goods exports was 2½ percent(a.r.) lower than in the first quarter.  Large decreases in capital goods accountedfor most of the decline.  Services receipts for April-May combined were down 9percent relative to the first quarter, reflecting a falloff in travel-related services.
Imports of goods and services rose 0.7 percent in May, with both the value of
imported goods and the value of services payments rising.  The largest increasesin goods were in capital goods (machinery), automotive products, and industrialsupplies.  These increases were partially offset by decreases in importedpetroleum.  For April-May combined, the level of nominal goods imports wasnearly 3½ percent (a.r.) higher than in the first quarter, boosted by increases incapital goods (mainly machinery), consumer goods, and, to a lesser extent,automotive products.  Imports of petroleum declined, entirely reflecting lower oilprices.  Services payments in April-May on average dropped 11½ percent (a.r.)relative to the first quarter, largely from reduced travel.
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
Prices of Internationally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In June, the price of imported non-oil goods rose 0.5 percent. 
Prices of imported computers continued to move lower, whereas prices ofsemiconductors were unchanged.  The price of imported non-oil core goods rose0.6 percent, led by increases in the prices of industrial supplies (primarily naturalgas and unfinished metals).  Import prices in other major trade categoriesincreased modestly.  In the second quarter, the NIPA price index for core goodsdeclined 
a percent (a.r), after rising more than 5 percent in the first quarter.  The
swing in core import price inflation from the first to second quarter primarilyreflects the spike in natural gas prices that occurred in the first quarter.  Prices formachinery (excluding computers and semiconductors) offset some of the secondquarter decline as they rose 1½ percent (a.r.).  For the first half of the year, pricesof imported non-oil core goods rose 2½ percent (a.r.), up from about 1½ percent(a.r.) in the second half of 2002. 
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose 4.7 percent in June following a revised
5.4 percent fall in May, ending three consecutive months of declining oil prices. The spot price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil also rose in June,averaging $30.72 per barrel, about $2.50 per barrel more than in May.  In July,the average spot price was $30.76 per barrel, and spot WTI closed at $32.23 perbarrel on August 5.  Prices have remained relatively elevated owing to a slowerreturn of Iraqi exports than the market anticipated at the conclusion of the war,strong Japanese oil demand resulting from the temporary shutdown of nuclearreactors, and low oil inventories in the OECD, particularly in the United States.
Exports.   In June, the price of exported goods fell slightly as declines in prices
of computers and semiconductors more than offset a small rise in exported coregoods.  Within core goods, a fall in the price of exported agricultural productswas outweighed by modest increases in all other major trade categories.  For thesecond quarter, the NIPA price index of exported core goods rose about2 percent (a.r.), driven largely by higher prices for agricultural products andindustrial supplies.  Prices for machinery (excluding computers andsemiconductors) offset some of the second quarter increase as they declined
½ percent (a.r.).  
U.S. International Financial Transactions
Portfolio inflows into the United States were huge in May, with record foreign
official inflows of $50 billion (line 1 of the Summary of U.S. InternationalTransactions table) and record private foreign inflows into U.S. securitiestotaling $73 billion (line 4).  Through May, y ear-to-date foreign official inflows
IV-6
1.  It should be noted that $21 billion of this year’s private purchases of U.S. securities are
attributed to China; given China’s severe rest rictions on outward portfolio investment, recorded
inflows from China’s private sector are likely ma de by public entities not included in the official
sector.($86 billion) and private inflows into U.S. securities ($181 billion) were both on
record paces.1  
The private inflows into U.S. securities in May were comparable in magnitude
to recent quarterly  amounts.  Private demand for corporate bonds continued at
the exceptionally strong pace of recent months and net purchases of Treasurysecurities and agency bonds surged.  Net purchases of U.S. equities weremodest, but the largest amount since last July.  U.S. net purchases of foreignsecurities (line 5) were near zero in May, as substantial sales of foreign bondsby U.S. investors were offset by purchases of foreign equities.  
About half of the foreign official infl ows in May was associated with Japanese
exchange market intervention.  Official inflows from China, Russia, andNorway were also quite large.  Data from custody accounts at the FederalReserve Bank of New York show a large increase in official holdings in Junethat was undone in July;           .
Net capital flows through the banking sector (line 3) amounted to an outflow of
$15 billion in May, bringing net banking inflows to $2 billion for the year.     TIC data for June will be reported in the Greenbook Supplement.
IV-7
IV-8
Foreign Exchange Markets
The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major currencies index,
rose 2 percent over the intermeeting period, interrupting a weakening trend thathas been in place for more than a year.  The dollar appreciated against all sevencurrencies in the major currencies index, as long-term interest rate differentialsmoved sharply in favor of dollar-denominated assets. 
The sharpest gains occurred against the British pound and the Canadian dollar
amid unexpected policy easing in these two countries.  The Bank of Englandlowered rates 25 basis points on July 10, a move which it justified by signs ofslowing domestic and external demand.  The sterling interest rate futures curveis currently positively sloped over the whole term structure, suggesting thatmarket participants no longer expect further rate cuts from the Bank of England. The Bank of Canada cut its target for the overnight rate 25 basis points onJuly 15, citing a decline in inflation, weaker economic activity, and dampingeffects of the recent strength of the Canadian dollar.  Economic data showing adeceleration in prices reinforced expectations for additional rate cuts, andanother 25 basis points of easing by year-end is currently priced in. 
The dollar strengthened 2 percent against the yen over the intermeeting period
amid several days of yen sales for dollars by Japan's Ministry of Finance. 
Comments by Treasury Secretary Snow early in the period, which were
IV-9
interpreted as indicating that the U.S. administration would not object to
Japanese intervention, reportedly also weighed on the yen’s exchange value. Market participants’ estimates of relatively heavy intervention were confirmed by Ministry of Finance data, showing it purchased $17.2 billion in July.  Salesof yen so far this year exceed $75 billion (equivalent), eclipsing the previousyearly record, set in 1999.
Comments by Treasury Secretary Snow, urging a widening of the renminbi’s
trading band against the dollar, gave further impetus to market discussion of thesustainability of U.S. external financing needs.  Japan’s and China’s foreigncurrency reserves reached $550 and $340 billion, respectively, by the end ofJune, with this year’s accumulation being especially rapid.  Separately, theECB’s recommendation in mid-July that the national central banks of the euroarea reduce their holdings of U.S. agency debt – to which some marketobservers attributed a widening in agency spreads over Treasuries – highlightedpotential implications of asset allocation decisions by foreign central banks forU.S. interest rates.  Market participants noted that Federal Reserve data showeda slowing pace of foreign central bank purchases of Treasury and agencysecurities in July.  However, this development may merely be a result of thehigher exchange value of the dollar.
Longer-dated government debt yields of the major foreign economies rose less
sharply over the intermeeting period than comparable U.S. Treasury yields;while the yield on the benchmark ten-year Treasury soared more than 100 basispoints, yields rose 45 to 70 basis points in Europe and Britain and 30 basispoints in Japan.  The FOMC’s 25 basis point ease in June was less than somehad expected and suggested a reduced likelihood of unconventional monetaryeasing measures.  In mid-July, Chairman Greenspan’s monetary policytestimony was widely viewed as optimistic toward the U.S. growth outlook. While government bond yields in other industrial countries followed Treasuryyields higher over the intermeeting period, hedging-induced selling ofTreasuries by mortgage-industry firms appeared to exacerbate the rise in U.S.yields relative to European yields.  Nevertheless, European yields wererelatively volatile over the intermeeting period.  The 10-year Germangovernment debt yield rose from a low of 3.47 percent in mid-June to a high of4.28 percent on August 1.  Yields implied by euro and sterling interest ratefutures also rose sharply on balance, to levels above those that prevailed at thetime of the May FOMC meeting.  By the end of the period there was no furthermonetary easing priced in for the European Central Bank or the Bank ofEngland.  Movements in Japanese government bond yields over theintermeeting period were also quite volatile, with the 10-year JGB yield brieflyreaching an intra day high of 140 basis points on July 4, after having fallen aslow as 42 basis points in mid-June. 
IV-10
Global equity indices rose, boosted by second quarter U.S. corporate earnings
and profit reports which came in above expectations on balance.  ManyEuropean companies still report earnings at a lower frequency and slower pacethan U.S. companies, and foreign equity market developments therefore havebeen partly driven by news from industry leaders domiciled in the United States. In Europe, industry groups that suffered the greatest losses earlier in the year,such as insurance and technology, have benefitted the most from the recentrally.  Major Japanese indices rose sharply in late June and early July, asJapanese government bond prices fell, but have since retraced much of thesemoves.  Nevertheless, the Nikkei index rose the most of industrial countries, at4.5 percent.  Japanese Ministry of Fina nce data showed that foreign investors
accounted for the largest share of net Japanese equity purchases over the period.
The performance of emerging market equity indices was mixed.  Most emerging
Asian indices rose sharply while Latin American indices were little changed tomodestly lower.  Share prices of large exporter companies outperformed,
IV-11
reportedly boosted by expectations for a rebound in global demand.  Broad
market indices in Korea, Taiwan, and Thailand gained between 6 and 9 percent.
The dollar strengthened 1 percent against the currencies of our other important
trading partners.  Toward the end of the period, investor losses associated withthe volatility of interest rate markets in industrial countries reportedly promptedsome market participants to reduce their risk taking and scale back theiremerging market positions.  Most Latin American sovereign bond spreads overTreasuries were little changed on net over the period.  However, Brazilian andArgentine assets generally underperformed.  The Brazilian real weakened
5¾ percent against the dollar over the period in part in response to policy easing
by Brazil’s central bank.  An escalation of terrorist activities in Indonesiaweighed on the rupiah, which depreciated 4½ percent against the dollar. 
IV-12
In other monetary policy actions, the Norwegian central bank lowered its policy
interest rate 100 basis points and Sweden’s Riksbank reduced its target rate25 basis points.  The central bank of Taiwan and the Hong Kong MonetaryAuthority also cut policy rates by 25 basis points.  In contrast, the Reserve Bankof Australia surprised markets by leaving policy unchanged, while consensusmarket expectations had been for policy easing. 
  
   .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for theaccounts of the System or Treasury.
IV-13
Developments in Foreign Industrial Countries
Recent data generally show that second-quarter growth was weak, and
indications for improvement in the current quarter are mixed.  Canadian growthin the second quarter was hit by the SARS outbreak and the discovery of madcow disease, but a rebound in employment in June suggests that the slowdownmay have been temporary.  The economies of Japan and the euro area appear tohave remained stagnant in the second quarter, with external trade exerting a dragon growth.  Whereas a weakening of consumer spending was the biggestconcern in Japan, the dormant manufacturing sector was the most negativefactor in the euro area.  The United Kingdom was a relatively bright spot, with amoderate rebound in GDP growth in the second quarter and indications ofcontinued recovery.
Twelve-month rates of consumer price inflation have continued to edge lower,
reflecting both declines in oil prices and local currency appreciations.  Canadianheadline inflation fell to near 2½ percent in June, and euro-area inflation dippedback below 2 percent in July.  U.K. inflation edged lower but remained justabove the 2½ percent target.  In Japan, deflation continued.
In Japan , indicators for the second quarter suggest that economic activity
remained sluggish.  Industrial production fell in June, and the average for thesecond quarter was 0.6 percent below the first-quarter average.  The broader all-industry index fell about 0.2 percent in April and May on average relative to thefirst-quarter average.  Consumption indicators were weak in the second quarter. Household expenditures rose slightly.  New car registrations dropped about 7percent during the second quarter but rose marginally in July.  In contrast,indicators of investment have been more positive.  Core machinery orders, aleading indicator of business fixed investment, rose 1.5 percent in April andMay on average from the first-quarter average.  Non-residential building startsrose 7 percent in June, for a gain of 1.4 percent in the second quarter.  Externaltrade has continued to be a drag on the Japanese economy: real exports declined1.3 percent in the second quarter from the first, while imports rose about2 percent.
The Bank of Japan's Tankan index of business conditions held steady in June,
with the level of the aggregate diffusion index for business sentiment amongfirms of all sizes and across all industries remaining at its March level of -26. Survey respondents project a slight improvement in the index for September. Sentiment among large manufacturers improved from -10 in March to -5 inJune, which some interpreted as a positive sign for business prospects.  Othersurvey indicators are generally consistent with economic sluggishness.  Therewas only a modest decline in the number of manufacturing firms that see
IV-14
"excess supply" for their products versus those that see "excess demand." 
Indicators of excessive inventory levels for small and large manufacturers roseslightly, as did the indicator of excessive employment levels for firms of allsizes and across all industries.
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Apr. May Jun. July
Industrial production1.4 .4 -.6 -1.5 2.6 -1.2 n.a.
All-industries index -.3 .7 n.a. -.6 .2 n.a. n.a.Housing starts 1.7 .7 4.3 5.6    .6 8.7 n.a.Machinery orders
2-.1 5.8 n.a. -1.8 6.5 n.a. n.a.
Machinery shipments32.3 .2 1.4 1.2 3.6 -1 n.a.
New car registrations -.6 1.5 -6.6 -11.2 11.2 -6 .8Unemployment rate
45.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.3 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.57 .60 .61 .60 .61 .61 n.a.
Business sentiment6-28 -26 -26 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-.7 -.7 -.4 -.4 -.4 -.4 -.4
Wholesale prices7-1.3 -.9 -1 -.8 -1 -1 n.a.
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, excluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
Japanese labor market conditions remain unfavorable amid continued deflation.  
The unemployment rate fell slightly to 5.3 percent in June, only a bit below therecord-high 5.5 percent rate in January.  The job-offers-to-applicants ratio, aleading indicator of employment, held steady in June.  Core consumer goodsprices in the Tokyo area (which exclude fresh food but include energy) roseslightly in July from the previous month, but were down 0.4 percent from a yearearlier.  Wholesale prices for domestic goods fell 1 percent in June from a yearearlier.  
IV-15
On July 28, the Bank of Japan launched its program to purchase securities
backed by the assets of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Consideration of such an initiative was originally announced on April 8; theprogram’s aim is to improve financing opportunities for SMEs and to helpJapan’s nascent asset-backed securities market.
In the euro area, recent data suggest that the economy barely grew in the second
quarter, as in the previous quarter.  Euro-area industrial production in April andMay on average was 0.5 percent below the first quarter average, and Germanindustrial orders fell nearly 2 percent in the second quarter despite a rebound inJune.  German firms reported a particularly large drop in foreign orders,consistent with continued weakness in exports owing in part to past appreciationof the euro.
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Apr. May Jun. July
Industrial production1.0 .0 n.a. .4 -.9 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume2-.4 .7 n.a. 1.5 -.6 n.a. n.a.
Unemployment rate38.6 8.7 8.9 8.8 8.9 8.9 n.a.
Consumer confidence4-14 -19.3 -19.3 -19 -20 -19 -18
Industrial confidence4-10 -11.3 -12.7 -12 -13 -13 -15
Mfg. orders, Germany .3 .0 -1.9 1.5 -2.6 2.3 n.a.CPI
52.3 2.3 2 2.1 1.9 2 1.9
Producer prices51.3 2.4 1.5 1.7 1.4 1.4 n.a.
M356.9 8 8.3 8.7 8.5 8.3 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Excludes motor vehicles.3. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO de finition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.     n.a.  Not available.
Survey measures of economic sentiment have been mixed.  Consumer sentiment
has improved somewhat following its sharp decline late last year and early this
IV-16
year, and sentiment in the services sector (particularly in retail trade) also has
improved.   In contrast, sentiment in the manufacturing sector has been mixed. The euro-area purchasing managers’ index for manufacturing rose in July for thefirst time since February, but the European Commission’s measure of industrialconfidence declined to its lowest level in a year and a half.  The bellwetherGerman IFO survey measure of business sentiment rose for the third straightmonth in July.  However, all of the IFO’s rise owed to an improvement inexpectations of conditions over the next six months; firms’ assessment of currentconditions was about the same in July as it had been in April. 
Euro-area twelve-month consumer price inflation ticked back below the ECB’s
2 percent target ceiling in July, according to the flash estimate.  Excludingenergy and unprocessed food, inflation was 2.0 percent in June.  Labor marketconditions remained a moderately negative factor for the euro-area economy,with the unemployment rate holding steady at a 3½ year high of 8.9 percent inJuly and survey data showing that consumers remain very concerned aboutemployment prospects.
The German government announced that it will bring forward into 2004 tax cuts
that had been scheduled for 2005, in an attempt to jump-start the stagnantGerman economy.  Partially-offsetting increases in indirect taxes and reductionsin spending are expected to reduce the stimulus of the tax cuts to about0.5 percent of GDP in 2004 .  Although German authorities still assert a strongcommitment to meeting the 3 percent deficit criteria required by the Stability andGrowth Pact, the move represents a departure from previous German attempts totoe the line on fiscal deficits and significantly reduces the probability of meetingthe limit in 2004.
In the United Kingdom , preliminary second-quarter real GDP growth rose
modestly, recovering from a weak fi rst quarter. Manufacturing output was
unchanged, while overall production in the second quarter ticked up in partbecause of a sizable increase in electricity generation in June.  Growth remainedat 1.5 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the service sector with strong gains in the distribution,hotels and catering sectors.
Limited indicators for the third quarter suggest continued recovery.  The long-
downtrodden manufacturing sector is showing signs of firming.  July’spurchasing managers index (PMI) for manufacturing indicates expansion for thefirst time since November 2002, and business confidence edged up in July. Consumers look to be heading back to the stores.  Although consumerconfidence has remained flat since rising in April, the services PMI has trendedup and the leading survey of retail sales suggests further improvement fromalready buoyant June sales.
IV-17
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Apr. May Jun. July
Real GDP* 2 .4 1.2 ... ... ... ...
Industrial production -.9 -.4 .1 .3 -.1 .7 n.a.
Retail sales volume11.6 .0 1.4 .4 -.1 2 n.a.
Unemployment rate2
      Claims-based 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 n.a.
      Labor force survey35.1 5.1 n.a.  5 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence43 -1.3 -6.3 -10 -3 -6 -4
Consumer confidence5- 3 - 1 0 - 6 . 7- 8- 6- 6- 6
Retail prices62.6 2.9 2.9 3 2.9 2.8 n.a.
Producer input prices71.4 4.9 1.4 .8 1.4 1.9 n.a.
Average earnings73.7 3.4 n.a. 2.6 3.1 n.a. n.a.
* Preliminary.  s.a.a.r.
1. Excludes motor vehicles. 2. Percent3. Three-month average centered on month shown.4. Percentage of firms expecting output to incr ease in the next four months less percentage 
expecting output to decrease.
5. Average of the percentage balance from c onsumers’ expectations of their financial 
situation, general economic situation, unemployment, and savings over the next 12                     months.
6. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.7. Percent change from year earlier....  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
The trend in housing price growth is slowing.  Housing prices rose 17.9 percent
in the twelve months ending in July, down from 19.3 percent in June, and theslowest twelve-month increase since May 2002.  In the second quarter, housingprices fell in London, but held up or even accelerated in most other regions of thecountry.  Net mortgage lending and consumer credit ramped up in June, to theirhighest levels since the series began in April 1993.  Mortgage equity withdrawalsrose to 7.3 percent of net income in the first quarter.
The labor market continues to be tight as both the official claims-based and the
labor force survey measures of the unemployment rate remain near record lows.The twelve-month rate of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage interestpayments) ticked down in June but remained above the Bank of England’s
IV-18
2½ percent target.  The harmonized index of consumer prices (HICP) rose
1.1 percent in the twelve months ending in June.
On July 10, the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) cut the
official repo rate 25 basis points to 3.5 percent.  This cut was  the first change in
the rate since February 6 of this year and brought the repo rate to its lowest levelin 48 years.  In its statement, the MPC noted that it was concerned about sluggishconditions in the world economy and that "slower consumer demand andsubdued private investment have so far offset the impact of higher publicspending."  Furthermore, the MPC noted that inflation would likely be dampenedsomewhat by the recent rebound of the sterling exchange rate.
In Canada , real GDP by industry rose 1.8 percent (s.a.a.r.) in May, rebounding
from a 3.2 percent decline in April.  Growth was supported by a large increase inretailing and wholesaling activity, particularly in regard to motor vehicles. Manufacturing remained weak, as the strong Canadian dollar hamperedproduction in the wood and pulp industries and the discovery of mad cow diseasein late May precipitated a large decline in meat-processing activity.  Activity intravel-related industries continued to be restrained by the April outbreak ofSARS in Toronto.
Recent indicators suggest that growth was weak in the second quarter but that the
quarter ended on an upswing.  Employment grew slightly over the quarter, asrobust growth in June more than offset earlier SARS-related declines in Apriland May.  Housing starts decreased in the second quarter, but remained high byhistorical standards.  Commercial and industrial construction increased in thesecond quarter, breaking a string of declines that stretched back to mid-2001.  Arecent survey of investment intentions reported that businesses and governmentexpect to increase capital spending on plant and equipment by 3.9 percent in2003.  Exports, however, were weak in April and May, hurt by both the strongCanadian dollar and a wide-scale ban on the importation of Canadian beeffollowing the discovery of mad cow disease in May.
In June, the twelve-month rate of headline CPI inflation declined to 2.6 percent
from 2.9 percent in May.  The twelve-month rate had reached 4.6 percent inFebruary, far above the Bank of Canada’s 1 to 3 percent target band, but hasdeclined rapidly on lower energy prices and the leveling off of a recent dramaticrise in auto insurance premiums.  Twelve-month core inflation, excluding food,energy prices, and indirect taxes, also moved down in June.  Citing the recentrapid decrease in inflation and weaker-than-expected economic activity, theBank of Canada cut the overnight rate, its key policy rate, 25 basis points on July15 to 3 percent.
IV-19
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Mar. Apr. May Jun.
GDP by industry .4 .6 n.a. .0 -.3 .1 n.a.
Industrial production -.3 .1 n.a. -.2 -.8 -.3 n.a.New mfg. orders -2.5 1.8 n.a. 1.5 -4.9 -2.5 n.a.Retail sales .8 1.8 n.a. -.7 -.8 .3 n.a.Employment .8 .5 .1 .1 -.1 -.1 .3Unemployment rate
17.5 7.4 7.7 7.3 7.5 7.8 7.7
Consumer prices23.8 4.5 2.8 4.3 3 2.9 2.6
Core Consumer Prices2,33 3.2 2.4 3.1 2.7 2.5 2
Consumer attitudes4121.8 114.3 n.a ... ... ... ...
Business confidence4136 131.4 n.a ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes.4. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-20
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 April May June
Japan
Trade 84.9 73.3 77.2 80.2 77.5 73.9
Current account 102.2 117.3 n.a. 120.9 159.6 n.a.
Euro area
Trade1103.8 29.6 n.a. 45.3 51.1 n.a.
Current account189.9 12.0 n.a. -112 -5.5 n.a.
Germany
Trade 127.9 125.8 n.a. 125.4 148.2 n.a.Current account
187.0 41.9 n.a. 40.9 42.8 n.a.
France
Trade 1.1 .6 n.a. 1.0 .7 n.a.Current account 4.6 3.9 n.a. -3.9 5.4 n.a.
Italy
Trade 5.2 1.3 n.a. -1.0 -4.0 n.a.Current account
1-15.8 -30.2 n.a. -33.5 -29.2 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -83.9 -70.9 n.a. -63.6 -80.0 n.a.Current Account -11.0 15.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 34.7 39.3 n.a. 37.9 34.6 n.a.Current Account 12.4 21.3 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-21
IV-22
IV-23
Economic Situation in Other Countries
In developing Asia, although the negative effects of SARS appear to be waning,
we have yet to see evidence of solid recoveries in these economies.  However,Chinese growth seems to be resuming, and Malaysian production has remainedfairly strong.  Economic activity continues to be soft in Mexico and hasweakened in Brazil and Argentina.  Sluggish demand has contributed to lowerinflation in much of the developing world, with deflation in a few Asianeconomies in recent months.
Real GDP in China contracted about 3 percent in the second quarter, reflecting
the negative economic effects of SARS and payback from a very strong firstquarter.  All indications are that the impact of SARS has now dissipated.  Retailsales and travel rebounded strongly in June, and industrial production, whichwas less affected by SARS, also picked up sharply.  Imports fell in the secondquarter after rising at an extraordinary pace in the first quarter, while exportscontinued to grow, though not as quickly as in the first few months of this year. The net result was a trade surplus in the second quarter that more than offset thefirst-quarter trade deficit.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 Apr. May June
Real GDP17.5 8.0 16.3 -2.9 ... ... ...
Industrial production28.9 11.8 17.0 15.1 14.9 13.7 16.9
Consumer prices2-.3 -.4 .5 .7 1.0 .7 .3
Trade balance323.1 30.3 -13.1 21.3 23.8 13.1 27.0
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by st aff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.
3. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
...  Not applicable.
The trade surplus and continued strength in foreign direct investment has
brought in a steady stream of foreign currency.  The Chinese authorities havesterilized the inflows of foreign exchange through issuance of central bank debt,expressing concerns that such inflows could lead to inflationary pressures. Although consumer prices have risen just 0.3 percent over the twelve monthsending in June, less than earlier this year, anecdotal evidence suggests thatproperty prices in some areas of China may be experiencing a bubble.  Many
IV-24
analysts believe that the possibility of such a bubble may be the real concern of
the Chinese monetary authorities.
In Hong Kong , the negative economic effects of SARS appear to be waning. 
Information on tourism, business travel, and retail sales indicate significantrebounds in June.  However, the impact of SARS on the labor market haspersisted, with the unemployment rate hitting a new record high in June. Consumer prices fell further in recent months, with a twelve-month decline ofmore than 3 percent in June, as retailers slashed prices in an attempt to retaincustomers.  The trade deficit was roughly unchanged in the second quarter fromthe previous quarter, but the total volume of trade was down considerably.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 Apr. May June
Real GDP1-1.3 5.2 -1.2 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.9 7.3 7.5 8.6 7.8 8.3 8.6
Consumer prices3-3.7 -1.6 -.9 -2.5 -1.9 -2.4 -3.1
Trade balance4-11.4 -7.7 -6.9 -6.1 -5.0 -4.3 -9.1
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages  of the current and previous two months.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Taiwan, although the economy was hurt in the second quarter by the SARS
outbreak, economic conditions do not appear to have weakened as much as inother countries.  Recent indicators have been mixed.  Industrial production fellin the second quarter on average but was up strongly in June.  In particular,output and export orders in the high-tech goods sector increased in June.  Inaddition, unemployment has held steady.  Consumer prices fell only a touch inthe second quarter, but declined more in July.  After decreasing in the secondquarter, both exports and imports were up in June.
IV-25
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Real GDP1-1.8 4.1 -.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.6 5.2 5.2 5.2 5.2 5.2 n.a.
Industrial production -7.3 6.4 .0 -1.6 -2.1 3.7 n.a.Consumer prices
3-1.7 .8 -.2 -.1 .3 -.4 -1.0
Trade balance415.6 18.1 13.5 16.9 19.2 12.9 n.a.
Current account517.9 25.7 29.0 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Incoming data for Korea  since the last Greenbook have been mixed.  Industrial
production was down for the second quarter on average, but jumped nearly5 percent in June, largely driven by increases in the production of vehicles,semiconductors, and machinery equipment.  However, consumer and businessconfidence indicators were weak in June, and the unemployment rate edged upto 3.6 percent.  Moreover, recent data on retail sales signal that the retrenchmentin consumer spending persisted through the first half of the year, although thetwelve-month rate of consumer price inflation has held steady at a little over3 percent.  Concerned by the weakness of domestic demand, the Bank of Korealowered its overnight call rate target in July by 25 basis points to a record low of3.75 percent.  The finance ministry has also announced a string of tax breaksintended to boost the economy in the second half of the year.  The trade surplusincreased sharply in June, reflecting both rising exports and slowing imports. 
The strong export performance partly reflected payback from a weak May level,which was held down by one-off special factors (labor unrest and two extraholidays during that month).  In addition, exports benefitted from the fading ofthe regional SARS epidemic.
IV-26
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Real GDP14.2 7.0 -1.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.0 7.4 .5 -1.0 -1.7 4.7 n.a.Unemployment rate
23.8 3.1 3.1 3.4 3.4 3.6 n.a.
Consumer prices33.2 3.8 4.1 3.3 3.2 2.9 3.2
Trade balance413.5 14.2 9.4 19.5 12.9 27.1 n.a.
Current account58.2 6.1 -6.9 10.3 14.2 21.1 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Since the last Greenbook, economic indicators in the ASEAN  region have
generally not improved.  With the exception of Malaysia, where high-techproduction has been driving manufacturing growth for the past several months,industrial production contracted in the region in May.  In June, industrialproduction continued to decline in Thailand, but rose in Singapore, although notenough to offset the April and May declines.  Trade balances across the regiondid generally increase in June, but this largely reflected a drop in imports.  InSingapore, there have been some encouraging signs of a revival of exports(particularly of electronics); however, the economy’s trade surplus narrowed inJune due to a rise in imports.  Inflation has remained low in the ASEAN region,with Singapore slipping back into mild deflation for the first time this year.
IV-27
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 Apr. May June
Real GDP1
Indonesia 1.8 3.8 5.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Malaysia -.9 5.3 .9 n.a. ... ... ...Philippines 3.6 5.7 -2.0 n.a. ... ... ...Singapore -6.0 3.0 1.1 n.a. ... ... ...Thailand 2.2 6.4 6.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia3.7 -1.1 1.0 n.a. -.6 -2.1 n.a.
Malaysia -4.1 4.2 2.4 n.a. 7.5 4.6 n.a.Philippines -5.7 -6.1 -1.2 n.a. 5.5 -4.1 n.a.Singapore -11.6 8.5 2.8 -3.4 -2.1 -5.5 2.6Thailand 1.3 8.5 4.8 2.8 3.4 -2.5 -3.4
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 Apr. May June
Indonesia 25.4 25.9 29.3 27.9 27.6 25.0 31.2
Malaysia 14.2 13.4 19.6 21.9 21.8 20.7 23.3Philippines -.9 -.2 -2.1 n.a. -1.1 -5.0 n.a.Singapore 5.8 8.7 16.7 13.2 11.9 15.0 12.8Thailand 2.5 3.4 5.5 6.8 5.4 4.9 10.0
n.a.  Not available.
IV-28
2. Although at 3.4 percent the unemployment rate is not high by international
standards, it should be noted that anyone working more than one hour a week iscounted as employed in Mexico.ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20011200212003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Indonesia 12.5 10.0 7.7 7.0 6.9 6.6 5.8
Malaysia 1.2 1.7 1.3 .9 1.0 .8 n.a.Philippines 4.1 2.6 2.9 3.0 2.7 3.4 3.3Singapore -.6 .4 .7 .2 .0 -.3 n.a.Thailand .8 1.6 2.0 1.8 1.9 1.7 1.8
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available
In Mexico , data releases since the last Greenbook continue to point to general
weakness in the economy.  Both industrial production and overall economicactivity (a monthly proxy for real GDP) fell in May, and exports declinedsubstantially in the second quarter.  Retail sales were also disappointing in May,suggesting that consumer spending--a source of relative strength in the firstquarter--lost momentum in the second quarter.  Moreover, labor marketconditions deteriorated, with a sharp increase in the unemployment rate in June.
2 
However, there is some faint evidence that hints at recovery; after falling inMay, business confidence rose in June and exports in that month also turned up. Inflationary concerns appear to be receding, which should allow for moreaccommodative monetary policy; the 12-month inflation rate in June was4.3 percent, and survey expectations of inflation for end-2003 fell to the top ofthe central bank’s 2-4 percent target range in June for the first time in manymonths.
In early July, Mexicans elected a new lower house in Congress, which will take
office in September for the next three years.  President Fox’s National ActionParty (PAN) lost ground to both the former ruling Institutional RevolutionaryParty (PRI) as well as other parties (including the left-wing Party of theDemocratic Revolution), a result which was largely expected.  As in theprevious Congress, no single party holds an absolute majority.  It is not clearthat the reduced number of PAN seats will significantly increase the difficultiesalready facing President Fox’s reform agenda. 
IV-29
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 Apr. May June
Real GDP1-1.5 2.0 -2.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Overall economic activity -.1 .8 .2 n.a. .5 -.5 n.a.Industrial production -3.3 -.2 .2 n.a. .4 -.5 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.5 2.7 2.7 3.0 2.9 2.8 3.4
Consumer prices3 4.4 5.7 5.4 4.7 5.2 4.7 4.3
Trade balance4-10.0 -7.9 -3.9 -7.9 -9.9 -6.7 -7.1
Imports4168.4 168.7 169.0 168.3 169.9 166.1 168.9
Exports4158.4 160.8 165.1 160.4 160.0 159.4 161.8
Current account5-18.0 -13.9 -8.6 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Brazil , data releases since the last Greenbook indicate that the economy
weakened during the second quarter.  Industrial output fell more than2½ percent in that quarter, and the unemployment rate rose to 12½ percent inJune.  Brazil has continued to post sizable trade surpluses, reflecting bothlackluster domestic demand, as well as the effects of the last year’s significantnet depreciation of the currency.  The headline CPI posted a slight monthlydecline in June, reflecting a fall in domestic prices of fuel and food; excludingfuel and food, monthly core inflation has been about 0.5 percent in recentmonths.  However, twelve-month inflation remains well above the target of 8.5percent for December 2003, probably reflecting the effect of last year’s declinein the Brazilian real on prices earlier this year.  In late June, the government
raised the upper bound of its inflation target for 2004 from 6.25 percent to 8percent, probably prompted by reluctance to push for too fast a reduction ininflation in the face of the weak economy.  However, an upper bound of 6percent was established for 2005.
In late July, the central bank reduced its benchmark interest rate, the Selic,
150 basis points, to 24.5 percent, consistent with market expectations; futurescontracts are pricing in further cuts through the end of 2003.  The governmenthas continued to comply with its IMF program, recording fiscal surpluses, but
IV-30
has experienced some difficulties amassing support for social security reform,
which is considered critical to long-term fiscal stability.  Congress is expected tovote on the reform by the end of this year. 
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Real GDP1-.7 3.4 -.2 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.6 2.4 -1.0 -2.6 .1 -2.6 n.a.Unemployment rate
2n.a. 11.7 11.1 12.1 12.1 12.6 n.a.
Consumer prices37.7 12.5 15.6 16.9 17.2 16.6 n.a.
Trade balance42.7 13.1 17.0 23.6 25.5 24.8 22.8
Current account5-23.2 -7.7 .3 1.6 10.6 5.7 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Break in October 2001 as a result of change in methodology.  Thus, 2001 is
average for Q4 only.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, ex cept annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , real GDP jumped 10 percent at an annual rate in the first quarter
and was up 5.1 percent from a year earlier.  This rebound was mainly driven byindustrial production and construction activity.  However, industrial productionfell 0.5 percent in the second quarter, suggesting that the recovery might belosing steam.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in July from the previousmonth, and twelve-month inflation declined to just over 7 percent.  The pesoappreciated about 19 percent against the U.S. dollar in the first half of the year,raising concerns about export competitiveness; however, it appears to havestabilized in recent weeks.  Although fiscal and monetary targets in the IMFprogram have been met, the government continues to lag in the implementationof key structural reforms.  In particular, there has been little progress on debtrestructuring discussions with external creditors and the bank restructuringagenda also continues to be plagued by delays.  Argentina's interim agreementwith the IMF expires at the end of August.  Talks between Argentina and theFund on a medium-term new financial assistance package are underway.
IV-31
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Real GDP1 -10.3 -3.3 10.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -7.6 -10.7 7.6 -.5 -1.2 -.3 n.a.Unemployment rate
218.1 20.4 16.4 16.4 ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -1.4 41.0 35.8 14.5 14.3 10.2 7.3
Trade balance47.5 16.7 15.7 19.1 16.7 18.6 n.a.
Current account5-4.5 9.6 7.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data for Greater Bu enos Aires.  Data released semi-annually.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Venezuela , oil output rebounded in the second quarter following disruptions
during the general strike from December to February.  Although oil productionappears to have reached capacity, estimated capacity is 15 percent belowpre-strike levels because of damage to wells and reservoirs during the strike. Non-oil activity remains very depressed and has shown no signs of recovery. Since stringent capital controls were imposed last January (when the bolivar waspegged to the dollar), an illegal parallel currency market has emerged.  In lateJuly, the parallel market exchange rate was 40 percent more depreciated than theofficial exchange rate.  Motivated by the weak economy, the central bank hasreduced its overnight interest rate 350 basis points to 28.5 percent in two movessince mid-July.  In late July, the Venezuelan government bought back$1.5 billion in external bonds and issued $1.5 billion in a newdollar-denominated bond.  Although the debt exchange reduces debt servicingrequirements over the next several years, the debt service reduction wasfinanced in part by a reduction in the central bank’s reserves.
IV-32
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Real GDP1 .9 -16.7 -52.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 16.0 19.4 18.4 19.3 17.8 n.a.
Consumer prices312.3 31.2 35.5 34.2 35.0 34.2 31.8
Non-oil trade balance4-12.2 -7.4 -2.5 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance49.3 13.9 12.8 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account53.9 7.7 7.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.