Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 5/20/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                    March 13, 2003
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                       March 13, 2003
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developm ents
Overview 
The economy  appears to be ex panding  at a subpar pace ag ain this quarter. The 
labor market has worsened markedly  in recent months, and spending  looks set to 
post only  a moderate g ain in the curre nt quarter. Consumer outlay s on g oods 
and servi ces appear t o have sl owed in recent  months, in part  because of 
snowstorms in mid-F ebruary . Moreove r, althoug h orders and shipments of 
capital g oods moved up in J anuary , bus iness investment spending  overall 
remains quite slug gish. In contrast , housing  markets have continued to be 
robust, and federal g overn ment outlay s are likely  to ratchet up ag ain in the 
current quarter. Althoug h core consumer  price inflation has chang ed little over 
the past  year, overal l price inflation has been pushed up recent ly by steep 
increases i n energ y prices. 
Labor Mark et Devel opments 
On balance, the employ ment data indi cate that the labor m arket has soft ened 
considerably  over the past se veral months. Payroll dec lines have averag ed cl ose 
to 100,000 per month since November, a nd initial claims for unemploy ment 
insurance and other available indicators point to ong oing job losses in March. 
Private nonfarm pay rolls dropped 321,000 in  February  following  an upward-
revised g ain of 174,000 in J anuary . We suspect that the mag nitude of last 
month’s drop may  have been amplified by  bad weathe r, reserve call-ups, and 
seasonal adjustme nt dif ficulties. Still, the  wide spread nature of the declines 
suggests that the underly ing demand for labor is weak. 
Employ ment in the  retail trade sector—whic h inc ludes the vola tile eating and 
drinking  establishments categ ory—fell 92,000 last month. More surprising ly, 
the service sector slashed 86,000 jobs af ter having  added an averag e of 48,000 
jobs per month over the past y ear. Within this categ ory, many  industries lost 
jobs, and employ ment in sectors th at had been g rowing  over the past 
year—including  health, social, leg al, and educational services—was flat. 
Althoug h the construction sector shed 48,000 jobs in F ebruary , the B LS 
indic ated tha t some  of the slide  may have been attributab le to bad weather 
during  the survey  week. Manufacturer s trimmed 53,000 jobs from their rosters, 
on par wi th the averag e pace of j ob cut s over t he past  year. The t ransport ation 
industry  posted a loss of 29,000 jobs in F ebruary , led by  declines in the trucking 
and air transportation industries, both of  which have likely  been affected by 
rising  fuel costs. 
The averag e workweek of production or nonsupervisory  workers dropped 
0.2 hour, to 34.1 hours, in F ebruary ; a larg e—and likely  weather-induced— 
decline in the construction workweek accounted for about half of the drop. 
Aggregate hours fell 1 percent in F ebruary  following  an upward-revised g ain of 
II-2
II-3
0.5 percent in J anuary . On net, the level of hours in J anuary  and F ebruary 
averag ed about 1/2 percent (at an annua l rate) below the averag e in the fourth 
quarter. 
In the household survey , the unemploy ment rate edg ed up 0.1 percentag e point, 
to 5.8 percent, in F ebruary , only  slightly above the level a y ear ag o. Given the 
weakness in employ ment, the small rise in  the jobless rate over the past y ear is 
somewhat puz zling. We suspect that  one contributing  factor may  be the 
decision by  some individuals to withdraw  from the  labor force altogether rather 
than remain une mploy ed in a  difficult job ma rket. Howe ver, an alternative 
measure of the unemploy ment rate, the potential worker rate—which includes 
unemploy ed workers as well as individua ls who are not in the labor force but 
still want a job—also has not moved up significantly  in the past y ear. 
Still, other labor market indicators from the household survey  suggest that job 
prospects have not been g ood: Over th e past twelve months, the labor force 
participation rate ha s declined 0.4 percentag e point to its lowest level in nearly 
ten y ears. In addition, the proporti on of the workforce working  part time 
because of economic conditions moved up appreciably  in January  and F ebruary . 
The num ber of recent  job losers as a share of em ployment, whi ch provi des an 
estimate of the lay off rate , remained near its averag e level over 2002, and the 
number of long -term unemploy ed moved back up last month, sug gesting  that 
finding  a job remains difficult. 
The most recent reading s on initial claims for unemploy ment insurance sug gest 
that labor market conditions have re mained soft in March. The four-week 
moving  averag e of initial claims stood at 420,000 for the week ended March 8, a 
level consi stent with cont inued j ob losses. Some of the recent  rise in claims 
probably  reflects weathe r-related lay offs, as f ilings of claims were 
disproportionately  high in states hit ha rd by  storms. Insured unemploy ment has 
also moved up of late, in line with rising  claims. The four-week moving 
averag e for the week ended March 1 stood at 3.4 million, up about 100,000 from 
the m ost recent  low poi nt reached i n earl y February . 
Other indicators of labor market activity  are consistent with the picture of 
weakening  demand for labor and sa gging confidence among  workers. 
According  to a survey  by Manpower, a te mporary  help ag ency, fewer firms, on 
net, are planning  to ex pand their pay rolls in the second quarter than in the first 
quarter.1 In addition, the National F ederation of I ndepe ndent B usinesses 
recently  reported that the hiring  plans of small businesses dropped in February 
1. Historical patterns sugge st that Manpower’s second-quarter plans are most useful for 
predicting employment growth from February through A pril. 
II-4
II-5
II-6
and are now at the low end of the rang e seen since the fall of 2001. Meanwhile, 
layoff announcements, compiled by  the outplacement firm Challeng er, Gray , 
and Christmas, and seasonally  adjusted by Board staff, increased in F ebruary 
and are now above their averag e level in  2002. In the Conference B oard survey , 
workers’ perceptions of current employ ment conditions worsened in F ebruary , 
and in both the Conference B oard and Mi chigan survey s, respondents’ views of 
expected labor market conditions we re more pessimistic  than the y were, on 
averag e, late last year. 
Output per Hour
(Percent ch ange from preceding  perio d at co mpound annua l rate;
based on season ally adjusted data)
Sector 20011 20021 2002 
Q2 Q3 Q4 
Nonfarm businesses 
All person s2 1.9 4.1 1.7 5.5  0.8 
All emp loyees3 2.0 4.3 1.7 6.6 1.9 
3.4 n.a. 5.9 5.5  n.a. Nonfinancial corp oration s4 
1. Change is from fourth quarter of  the precedin g year to f ourth quarter of  the year shown. 
2. Includes non-employees (p ublished definition). 
3. Assumes that the growth rate o f hours of all p ersons equals the growth rate o f hours of all 
employees. 
4. The nonfinancial corporate s ector con sists of all co rporations doing business in the Un ited 
States  with the exception  of banks, stock and com modity  brok ers, and finance an d insurance 
companies. The sector accou nts for abou t two-thirds of business employment. 
The B LS estimates that output per hour for all persons in the nonfarm business 
sector increased at an annual rate of 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter. However, 
this fig ure was held down by  a sharp increase in the reported hours of self-
employed wor kers, a series that is quite  vola tile from qua rter to qua rter.2 
Excluding  the hours of self-employ ed workers, which account for about 
10 percent of total hours, productivity  in the fourth quarter posted a g ain of 
1.9 percent. Over the four quarters of 2002, productivity  for all persons moved 
2. Self-employed hours may also complicate o ur interpretatio n of the productivity data in the 
first quarter: The incorporat ion of new popu lation estimates and the con version of the Current 
Population Survey to the No rth American  Industry Classif icatio n System (NA ICS) in troduced a 
one-time break  in the em ployment and hours of self-employed workers in the priv ate n onfarm 
business sector betw een Decem ber 2002 an d Jan uary 2003. The BL S has not yet decided h ow to 
adjust measures of self-employed hours to accou nt for this break ; the method of  adjustment 
could have a larg e effect on  the estimated ch ange in self-employed hours—an d thus nonfarm 
business productivity—in the first quarter. 
II-7
up 4.1 percent, the larg est increase ove r any  four-quarter period since 1992; 
productivity  excluding  the hours of se lf-employ ed workers rose a similar 
4.3 percent over the past y ear. 
Indust rial P roduc tion 
The available data indicate that tota l industrial production (I P) edg ed up in 
February .3 The output of motor vehicles fell, reversing  about half of the g ain in 
January . However, indicators of hig h-tech production sug gest that output in 
these industries continued to firm in F ebruary after having  declined in the final 
month of 2002. Apart from motor vehicles and hig h-tech, the available data are 
consiste nt with little  change in ma nufacturing output. 
Weekly  data show that the return of  temperatures to seasonal norms boosted 
electricity  generation for a second month in F ebruary . Excluding  motor vehicle 
assemblies and electricity generation, the components of  IP for which we have 
weekly  physical product data are on track to make a slig ht neg ative contribution 
to the chang e in total I P. Althoug h drilling  activity , crude o il extraction, and the 
output of refineries jumped in response to the sharp increases in petroleum and 
petroleum product prices, coal production declined sig nificantly , and iron and 
steel production fell further last month. 
The slower pace of motor vehicle pr oduction and the accompany ing decline in 
the output of motor vehicle parts app ear to have held down I P by nearly 
0.2 percentag e point last month. Elsewhere in transportation, the output of 
comme rcial aircraft continue d to de cline in January  and F ebruary . However, the 
contraction in this sector appears to ha ve slowed; in the fourth quarter of 2002, 
production dropped, on averag e, nearly  3 percent per month.4 
In the hig h-tech sector, the latest data from the Semiconductor I ndustry 
Association sug gest that the output of semiconductors advanced at a brisk pace 
early  this y ear after having  declined  in December. A pickup in demand for 
chips used in cellular handsets appears to be responsible for much of the 
turnaround. In addition, I ntel’s revised re venue ex pectations for the first quarter 
of 2003 are consistent with a moderate g ain in real  microprocessor unit (MPU) 
output, the larg est categ ory of domestic semiconductor production. 
3. Snowstorm s in the Eas t and ice storm s in Texas apparen tly exerted only a minimal drag 
on produ ction in February. 
4. Boei ng plans to deliver abou t 280 ai rplanes in 2003, a l evel well below the 381 ai rcraf t 
delivered i n 2002. Given the con siderabl e lead t imes for these del iveries, however, the step 
down to a lower production rate h as been essen tially  completed ; going forward, therefore, the 
output of commercial aircraf t will lik ely flatten  out. 
II-8
II-9
II-10
Downstream, the output of computers a nd peripheral equipm ent has continued 
to ex pand at a moderate pace. The production of personal computers for 
consumer use jumped substantially  during the fourth quarter, apparently  in 
response to sales that were boosted by  aggressive rebate  prog rams. In the first 
quarter, industry  analy st Ga rtner/Dataquest ex pects un it shipments of PCs to be 
about flat, a development consistent w ith siz able g ains in real output. In 
contrast, the data on production-work er hours sug gest that the output of 
communications equipment fell in F ebruary  after having  risen in J anuary . On 
balance, the declines in this categ ory appear to have slowed since mid-2002. 
Most forward-looking  indicators of activ ity point to small but positive g ains in 
output ex cluding  high-tech and trans portation. The diffusion index  of new 
orders from the I nstitute of Supply  Mana gement (I SM)—an indicator that has 
predicted ma nufacturing IP well in the past y ear—fell sharply  in February , 
althoug h its level remained consistent with a slow rate of increase in production. 
The reg ional diffusion index es of new orders also g enerally  edged down in 
February but we re more optimistic  than the  ISM sur vey. Real adjuste d dur able 
goods orders moved up 3 percent in J anuary; even with the most recent increase, 
however, this series has only  recovere d to about its le vel last October. 
Motor Veh icles 
Sales of lig ht motor vehicles tumbled to an annual rate of 15.3 million units in 
February , nearly  800,000 units below th e sales pace in J anuary . Several 
industry  sources reported that sales we re held down by  the snowstorms that 
pummeled the East and parts of the South over the Presidents’ Day  weekend. 
Althoug h estimates of its impact varied c onsiderably , some firms assig ned the 
snowstorms responsibility  for as many  as 500,000 units in lost sales. But some 
of the decline also ma y have owe d to inc reased consume r pessimism. Indeed, 
the Michig an survey  index  of car-buy ing attitudes dropped sharply  in February ; 
many  respondents cited neg ative assessments of current g asoline prices and 
geopolitical uncertainty . In addition, the au tomakers have repor ted that they  are 
concerned t hat price incent ives are becom ing less effect ive: In February , the 
averag e incentive per vehicle was about $1,850, little chang ed from J anuary ’s 
level and up a bi t from  the averag e in Decem ber, when l ight vehi cle sales 
totaled more than 18 million units. Looking ahead to March, the noticeable step 
down i n incent ives throug h the first week of t he m onth is consi stent with recent 
reports from the  automa kers, whic h indi cated a furt her sl ackeni ng in dem and. 
II-11
II-12
II-13
Total motor vehicle production dropped to  an annual rate of 12.3 million units in 
February , 600,000 units below the ex cepti onally  strong  rate in J anuary .5 Even 
with the decline in assemblies, invent ories of lig ht vehicles surg ed 100,000 units 
(not at an annual rate), a nd day s’ supply  increased to almost 74 day s last month, 
well above manufacturers’ ta rgeted rang e. Althoug h production schedules for 
March cal l for assem blies to rem ain near t heir current  pace, t he aut omakers have 
announced plans to slash production to 11.7 million units in the second quarter 
in an effort  to reduce t heir bloated inventories. 
Produc tion of D omestic Autos and Tr ucks 
(Millio ns of units  at an annua l rate except as noted; FRB s easonal basis) 
Item 2002 2003 2002 2003 
H1 Q4 Q11 Q21 Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. 1 
U.S. pr oduction 12.3 12.4 12.4 11.7 11.9 12.9 12.3 12.2 
Autos  5.2  4.9  4.7  4.6  4.6  5.2  4.5  4.5 
Trucks  7.1  7.5  7.7  7.2  7.4 7.7  7.8  7.7 
Total days’ supply2 61.3 63.1  n.a.  n.a. 56.5 67.6 73.9  n.a. 
Inventories3 2.61 2.73  n.a.  n.a. 2.73 2.81 2.91  n.a. 
Note. C omponents may not sum to totals  becau se of rounding. 
1. Production rates ref lect W ard’s Communicatio ns’ latest sch edules for March  and Q2. 
2. Semiannua l and quarterly figures calculated using end-of-period stocks and average reported 
sales. 
3. En d-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy trucks (classes 3-8). 
n.a. Not av ailable. 
Consum er Spending 
After a si zable jump in Decem ber, consum er spendi ng moved down i n bot h 
January  and F ebruary , larg ely reflecting  the fall in motor  vehicle sales. Apart 
from  motor vehi cles, spendi ng advanced at  a bri sk pace i n January  but edged 
lower in F ebruary . At least part of the weakness last month was due to the 
snowstorms that kept many  consumers at home. Nevertheless, economic 
fundamentals may  also have been at work: Althoug h increases in nominal 
incom e have been wel l maintained i n recent  months, ri sing energ y prices have 
eaten into some  of these gains, a nd both c onsume r sentime nt and ne t wor th have 
deteriorated not iceabl y. 
5. Weather in February is estim ated to have had little ef fect o n motor vehicle p roduction. 
Available data sugge st that the snowstorms shaved less than 100,000 u nits at an annua l rate from 
the month’s o utput. 
II-14
II-15
II-16
Nomina l retail sales in the  control category of stores, whic h excludes auto 
dealers and building  material and suppl y stores, fell 0.2 percent in F ebruary . 
Strong  sales at g asoline stations, buoy ed by a spike in g as prices, were more 
than offset by declining  sales in most other categ ories, par ticularly  at clothing 
outle ts and furnitur e stores. Indeed, we  estima te that real PCE f or items in the 
control categ ory dropped 0.7 percent in F ebruary  after having  surg ed at an 
averag e monthly  rate of 0.7 percen t in the previous four months. 
Real outlay s on services advanced 0.2 per cent in J anuary  (the latest available 
data) after havi ng decl ined a t ouch i n Decem ber. A drop i n temperat ures from 
the unusually  warm December led to a rebound in spending  on energ y services 
in January , whi le expendi tures on ot her servi ces advanced at  a moderat e pace. 
In February , energ y services likely  posted another weather-induced increase. 
The determinants of consumption have been  lackluster of late. Real disposable 
personal income increased 0.2 percent in January , a bit shy  of the g ains posted 
over the last three months of 2002. Pay raises for federa l civilian and military 
personnel provided a boost to incomes in January , but private wag e and salary 
disbursements decreased a shade. The substantial drop in hours in F ebruary 
suggests that wag es and salaries also dec lined last month. Furthermore, g ains in 
real income in the first two months of the y ear were held down by  the run-up in 
energ y prices. With income rising and ex penditures moving  down in J anuary , 
the personal saving  rate jumped 0.4 pe rcentag e point, to 4.3 percent. The 
increase in the saving  rate over the past y ear is consistent with the erosion in 
household net worth over the past three y ears. 
Both the Mi chigan Survey  Research  Center’s overall index  of consumer 
sentime nt and the  Conf erence Board’s inde x of consume r expectations f ell 
sharply  in February . Consumers’ a ssessments of both current and ex pected 
condi tions m oved down i n bot h index es, and each i ndex  now st ands at  its lowest 
level since 1993. The current values of  the index es are below what mig ht be 
expected g iven economic fundamentals,  which sug gests that a potential war 
with I raq or other non-economic fact ors are likely  weig hing on household 
sentime nt. 
Housing Mark ets 
With low mortg age rates continuing  to support demand, constr uction of sing le-
family home s remained strong at the beginning  of the year. Single-family starts 
rose in J anuary  to an annual rate of  1.51 million units, the hig hest level since 
1978. In view of the ex ceptionally  dry weather in J anuary  and the lower level of 
permit issuance, this starts fig ure likely  overstated the underly ing pace of 
activity ; nevertheless, even some drop-back in F ebruary  would leave starts well 
above their levels in 2002. 
II-17
II-18
II-19
New home sales fell to an annual rate of 914,000 units in January , althoug h they 
remained wel l within the el evated rang e observed over t he past  several  years.6 
Sales of ex isting  homes (using  FRB seasonal factors, which include an 
adjustment for trading -day variation across months) edg ed down 3.8 percent in 
January  but also remained at a hig h level.7 
More timely  indicators of housing  dema nd have also been robust. The 
Michigan Sur vey’s measure of home buying attitude s stayed at one of the 
highest levels in four y ears in F ebruary, with a siz able proportion of respondents 
mentioning  low mor tgage rates as a contributing  factor. Furthermore, even 
thoug h the number of applications fo r mortg ages associated with home 
purchases has fallen, on net, this y ear, it has remained quite hig h by historical 
standards. 
Reflecting  the streng th in demand, house prices (adjusted for shifts in the 
characteristics of the units sold) moved up further in the fourth quarter of 2002. 
The increase in the constant-quality  index  of new home prices—4.6 percent over 
the four quarters of 2002—was close to the averag e rate of increase over the 
previ ous four y ears. However, t he year-over-y ear chang e in the repeat -sales 
index  of ex isting  home prices edg ed down to  6.6 percent, the lowest rate in three 
years. 
In the multifamily  sector, housing  starts decreased 7.6 percent in J anuary  to an 
annual rate of 340,000 units, a bout the same as the averag e pace recorded over 
the past three y ears. The vacancy  rate for multifamily  rental units reached one 
of the hig hest levels on record in the fourth quarter (lates t data), and rents 
declined further, continuing  the downward trend that beg an at the end of 2001. 
Equipm ent and Soft ware 
Real spending  on equipment and softwa re increased at an annual rate of 
6-1/2 percent in the fourth quarter, buoy ed by a jump in outlay s for aircraft and 
small gains in pur chases in othe r major categories. A rise in shipme nts of 
nontransportation equipment in J anuary  suggests that prospects in this area may 
be improving , a view that is consistent with the continued g ains in business 
output and the declining  cost of capita l. However, anecdotal indicators, 
including  reports from the B eige Book and our business contacts, as well as 
survey s of securities analy sts, imply  that firms remain cautious about 
undertaking  new investment projects. 
6. The data on new home sales are q uite volatile o n a monthly basis, o wing in particular to 
the difficulty of imputing the number of units so ld prior to the issu ance of building permits. 
7. The Nation al Association  of Realtors  (NA R) recen tly revised its estimates of existing 
home sales over the pas t three y ears to adj ust for trading-day variation; however, analysis by 
FRB  staff sugge sts that the NAR adjustment is incomplete. 
II-20
II-21
II-22
II-23
In the hig h-tech sector, nominal shipment s of computing  equipment surg ed at a 
monthly  rate of more than 20 percent in January, the largest increase in the 
eleven-y ear peri od for whi ch com parable data exist. Communic ations 
shipments also jumped, althoug h some of  the outsiz ed gains in both of these 
categories will like ly prove to be  transitor y. Still, with pr ices for these types of 
goods falling , real hig h-tech spending  appears to be on a steep upward trajectory 
in the current quarter. Outside of the high-tech sector, shipments edg ed down in 
January , with a pronounced drop in the measuring  and controlling  devices 
subcat egory more than account ing for t he decl ine. 
The orders data for J anuary  depicted more broad-based st rength tha n the 
shipments data. Booking s for computer s and peripherals moved up, in line with 
the upward trend that beg an in th e middle of last y ear. Althoug h 
communic ations or ders jumpe d, this se ries has been particularly vola tile 
recent ly, at least partially reflecting unst able seasonal  patterns. Smoothing 
throug h the month-to-month variation, th ese orders have ri sen moderately  in 
recent months. Excluding  high-tech and aircraft, nondefense capital g oods 
orders rose 1.8 percent in J anuary . Nevertheless, the patte rn of orders and 
shipments over the past few months point s to listle ss spe nding  in this c ategory 
in the current quarter. 
In the transportation sector, fleet sales of autos and lig ht trucks fell in J anuary 
and F ebruary , while medium and heavy truck sales moved down for the fourth 
straig ht month in J anuary . Althoug h demand for trucks has generally  trended 
lower since the peak in 1999, a noticeable increase in net new orders for larg e 
commercial trucks sug gests that the slid e may  be coming  to an end. Business 
spending  on aircraft rose dr amatically in the  fourth quarter, with part of the 
increase reflecting a surprising jump in impor ted regional jets. On ba lance, 
however, the g ain in the fourth quarter  reversed only  a small fraction of the 
consi derabl e decl ines in aircraft  investment that have occurred since the 
beginning  of last y ear. In January , dom estic shipme nts and imports of aircraft 
moved back down. 
Nonresidential Con struction 
The downtrend in investment in nonresiden tial structures continued in the fourth 
quarter of last y ear, with most categ ories recording  sizable declines in spending . 
Real spending  for the building s component of nonresidential structures 
decreased at an annual rate of 10 per cent in J anuary  and was down 17 percent 
from the  year-ago level. Only  institutiona l constr uction showe d a net increase 
in ex penditures over the twelve months ended in J anuary . 
Most  indicators of m arket condi tions i n this sector have det eriorated. Vacancy 
rates for office building s in both suburba n and downtown locations rose in the 
II-24
II-25
II-26
fourth quarter, thoug h they  were still be low their peaks in the late 1980s and 
early  1990s. Vacancy  rates for industrial building s moved up to a record hig h. 
Office and warehouse rents continued to shrink; however, an upturn in property 
values for t hese st ructures sug gests that some investors may believe that rents 
will turn up later this y ear. For retail space,  rents were flat in the fourth quarter, 
while  property values increased slig htly. 
Expenditures for drilling  and mining  dropped at an annual rate  of 38 percent in 
the fourth quarter after a decline of 4-1/ 2 percent in the third quarter. In the 
current  quart er, increases i n the pri ces of  natural g as and crude  oil have led to a 
jump in the  numbe r of drilling  rigs in use , a developme nt tha t suggests tha t 
spending  in this categ ory may be starting to recover. 
Business In ventories 
Real nonfarm inventories ex cluding  motor vehicles accumulated at a modest 
pace in the fourth quarter after a simila r increase in the third quarter. The 
fourth-quarter buildup was concentrated in December, when the book value of 
manufacturing  and trade inventories ex cluding  motor vehicles jumped roug hly 
$90 billion (annual rate). Partial data for J anuary suggest some run-off in 
inventories, and inventory  stocks appear to  be fairly  lean. 
In January , manufacturing  inventories d eclined, as stocks of durable g oods 
resumed their long -running  downward trend and stocks of nondurable g oods 
edged up. Book-value wholesale inventorie s excluding  motor vehicles also fell 
in January , owing  in part to a siz able liquidation at mach inery  distributors. 
With oil prices having  moved up subs tantially  in January , real wholesale 
inventories likely  posted an even larg er decline, as distributors of petroleum and 
gas products drew from the larg e stocks accumulated in December. 
With siz able g ains in shipments and sales in J anuary , book-value inventory -
sales ratios m oved down aft er havi ng ticked up i n Decem ber. Firms have been 
successful at lowering  these ratios from the hig h levels recorded in mid-2001. 
According  to data from the staff’s flow-of-g oods invent ory measurement 
system, which tracks inventories by  type of product wherever they  are held in 
the production and distribution channel, day s’ supply  excluding  motor vehicles 
edged down for a third consecutive mont h in J anuary  and is well below its 
elevated 2001 reading s. Few imbalan ces are evident across industries. 
Federal Govern ment 
The outlook for the F ederal budg et continue s to deteriorate. Since J anuary , the 
Cong ressiona l Budget Office (CBO) has revised up its e stimate of the unified 
deficit $50 billion for the current fiscal  year. This update reflected weaker 
incom ing recei pts data, higher defense spendi ng, and t he om nibus 
II-27
II-28
II-29
appropriations bill. The CB O also not ed that additional funding  for military 
action in the Middle East would boost the deficit further. Separately , the 
Administration unveiled its fiscal 2004 budg et. This proposal included 
projected deficits of $300 billion in fiscal y ears 2003 and 2004. 
January  receipts, adjusted for chang es in filing  deadlines, were 1 percent below 
their year-ago level. Consiste nt with th e rise in wag es and salaries seen over the 
past y ear, withheld income tax  and social insurance collections posted a 
4-1/2 percent g ain. In contrast, nonwit hheld income tax  and social insurance 
taxes registered an 8 pe rcent de cline, whic h like ly owe d to lowe r capital income 
and capi tal gains real izations. More recen t daily Treasury  data indicated furt her 
weakness in receipts, with individual income tax  refunds throug h March 7 
running  6 percent above last y ear. An increase in the number of returns 
processed earlier in the tax  season because  of electronic filing  can ex plain only 
part of the recent refunds data. Indeed, overall incoming  receipts data appear 
weaker than income g rowth would imply . According ly, the CB O knocked 
down its estimate of receipts by  $30 billion. 
Outla ys in January (adjuste d for regular payment timing  shifts) were up 
4 percent from the  year-earlier level, led by a 12 percent increase in defense 
spendi ng. The Adm inistration recent ly stated that the Depart ment of Defense i s 
spending  $1-1/2 billion pe r month on pr eparations f or a pote ntial conflict in the 
Middle East and antiterrorism activities that  were not included in the fiscal 2003 
defense budg et. As a consequence, de fense spending  during  the first four 
months of the fiscal y ear was well a bove the budg eted pace, and a sig nificant 
supplemental appropriations bill is now widely  anticipated. 
In mid- February, the Cong ress pa ssed an omnibus a ppropriations bill tha t 
provided budg et authority  for the prog rams normally  funded by  the eleven 
outstanding  regular nondefense appropriations acts as well as additional monies 
for defense and some  mandatory programs. CBO estimates that the bill will 
boost fiscal 2003 outlay s $13 billion above th e targ et that the Cong ress and the 
President ag reed upon in early  January , including  an additional $6 billion for 
defense, a boost in Medicare reimburseme nt rates for doctors that amounts to 
$4 billion on a  full year basis, a nd $3 billion in disa ster assista nce for farmers 
and ranchers. 
The Administration also released its fi scal 2004 budg et in F ebruary . The budg et 
proposal calls for numerous tax  cuts, an expansion of Medicare to include some 
prescription drug  coverag e, and an incr ease of 4 percent in both defense and 
nondefense discretionary  spending  in fi scal 2004. The Administration estimates 
that its tax  polices and spending  proposal s would lead to unified budg et deficits 
of roug hly $300 billion in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004. By fiscal 2008, the 
II-30
II-31
estimated deficit would decline to $190 billion, compared with a surplus of 
$51 billion projected under current services. 
State an d Local Govern ments 
Employ ment at state and local g overnments rose in J anuary  and F ebruary . 
Nevert heless, the pace of hi ring has eased over t he past  year, as effort s to 
balance budg ets have included hiring  freezes and some lay offs. Spending  on 
infrastructure moved up 1.1 percent in J anuary , a somewhat larg er increase than 
the modest g ains posted throug h most of la st year; however, part of the rise was 
likely  the result of favorable weather that month, which boosted construction of 
both hig hways and educationa l facilities. 
In a recent  survey  by the Nat ional Conference of S tate Legislatures, t hirty-six 
states reported budg etary  gaps throug h the middle of fiscal 2003, which ends 
June 30. To close these g aps, many  states are ag ain cutting  expenditures on a 
variety  of prog rams, including  educati on, Medicaid, corrections, and aid to local 
governments. In addition, some states are raising  fees and tapping  rainy -day, 
tobacco, and other state funds . States have also beg un planning  their fiscal 2004 
budg ets, and once ag ain, many  expect re venues to fall short of spending . It 
appears that more states will be looking  to raise receipts nex t year throug h 
higher tax es, mainly  on cig arettes a nd alcohol, and throug h a broad rang e of 
other revenue-enhanc ing strategies. 
At the local level, survey  data recent ly released by  the Nat ional Associ ation of 
Counties indicate that 72 percent of re sponding  counties are facing  budg etary 
shortfalls, with most re spondents citing  a reduction in state aid as the primary 
cause. Many  counties repor ted that they  plan to ex haust previous y ears’ 
reserves and scal e back servi ces; 45 per cent indicated that they are consi dering 
tax hikes. 
Prices and Labor  Costs 
Most  measures of l abor cost s and core consum er pri ces have been decel erating 
over t he past  year. However, t he recent jump in crude oi l prices has pushed up 
overall consumer price infla tion early  this y ear, and as a result, J anuary ’s year-
over-y ear chang es in the CPI and P CE pri ce index es were 1 to 1-1/2 percentag e 
points greater than a y ear earl ier. Rising energ y prices have also contributed to 
recent  increases i n intermediate and spot  com modity price index es. 
The C PI for energ y rose 4 percent  in January , mainly reflecting the effect s of 
the sharp run-up in crude oil prices on gasoline and heating  oil prices. In 
addition, unusually  cold weather in the Midwest and on the Atlantic seaboard 
led to an acute shortag e of heating  oil inventories last month. With wholesale 
heating oil ma rgins even hig her than those  for gasoline , refiners tilted the ir 
production processes toward heating  oil in the second half of F ebruary . Cold 
weat her 
II-32
II-33
throug h mid-F ebruary  and the resultin g demand for space heating  also drove 
natural g as inventories down to about half of their ty pical levels for the season. 
Consequently , spot prices of natura l gas doubled in F ebruary , althoug h they 
have eased some since. All told, these developments, as well as survey  data for 
February , point to another larg e increase in  energ y prices in the nex t CPI report. 
Consumer prices for food fell 0.2 percent in  January , with declines in prices for 
many  animal products, fruits  and veg etables, and food away  from home. The 
drop in the price of food away  from home was its first decrease in more than 
forty  years. For the twelve months ende d in J anuary , food prices rose 1 percent, 
a decel eration of nearl y 2 percent age points from  the previ ous y ear. 
The CPI  excluding  food and energ y rose 1.9 percent over the twelve months 
ended i n January , 3/4 percent age point less than t he pace a y ear earl ier.8 Prices 
of both core g oods and core services have decelerated noticeably  over the past 
twelve m onths. The i ncrease i n core P CE prices over the twelve months ended 
in January  was 1.5 percent, about the same as in the preceding  period. A 
1/2 percentag e point deceleration in pri ces for market-based components of the 
core PCE index  was offset by  a pic kup in prices for nonmarket-based items. 
Prices for capi tal equi pment, as m easur ed by  the producer price index , rose 
0.7 percent in J anuary , roug hly reversin g their decline over the preceding  two 
months. Substantial swing s in prices  for cars and lig ht trucks have accounted 
for much of this see-saw movement. For the twelve months ended in J anuary , 
capital equipment prices ticked down 0.1 percent. 
Prices at  earlier stages of processi ng have been moving  up sig nificantly , 
reflecting the recent  run-up i n energ y prices and subst antial increases i n prices 
for some industrial supplies. The PPI  for intermediate materials jumped 
1.3 percent in J anuary , and the index was up 4.5 percent from a y ear earlier, 
compared with a decline of 4.7 percent th e preceding  year. A smaller, but still 
pronounced, swing  occurred in the PPI  for intermediate materials ex cluding 
food and energ y, which includes energ y-intensive items such as plastic resins, 
nitrog enates, and industrial chemicals. In addition to the acceleration in energ y 
prices, the recent run-up in core interm ediate g oods prices likely  reflects some 
firming  of industrial demand and the larg er increases in import prices over the 
same period. 
8. The deceleratio n in core prices is a little less p ronounced when measured by the core 
portion  of the chained CPI, which uses a superlativ e aggregation  formula that tak es into accou nt 
substitution by consumers in  resp onse to changes in relativ e prices. This index rose 
1/2 percen tage poin t less than in the precedin g year. 
II-34
II-35
II-36
II-37
The PPI  for core crude materials rose 1.0 percent in J anuary , and the twelve-
month chang e in this index  was 13 pe rcent. Broad-based spot commodity 
index es have al so m oved up recent ly, extending the sizable advances t hey 
posted last y ear. The J ournal of Co mmerce industrial pr ice index  has been 
boosted by  its substantial energ y component, and both it and the Commodity 
Research B ureau index  of spot industria l prices have been driven hig her by 
rising  prices for a rang e of other commodities. In particular, recent reports have 
noted a pickup in foreig n demand for i ndustrial metals—especi ally steel scrap. 
The C ommodity Research Bureau i ndex of futures prices, which is heavily 
weighted towa rd agricultur al commoditie s, is up mode stly since the last 
Greenbook but has increased almost 30 per cent over the past twelve months. A 
large part  of last year’s i ncrease re flects the droug ht-induced run-up in g rain 
prices, but prices for cotton have also increased sharpl y of late. 
Near-t erm inflation ex pectations from  the Mi chigan survey  edged up i n 
February : The median ex pected rate of inflation for the nex t year, which had 
inched down from 2-3/4 percent last spri ng to 2-1/2 percent late last y ear, 
popped back up to 2.7 percent last mont h. The F ebruary  reading  on median 
expectations of inflation over the nex t five to ten y ears also was 2.7 percent, in 
line with the ty pical response for the past y ear. 
The i ncom ing data on labor cost s have sent  mixed signals reg arding recent 
patterns in compensation, but our sense is  that compensation g rowth remains on 
a downtrend. Over the twelve m onths ended in December 2002, the 
employ ment cost index (ECI ) for hourly  compensation in private industry 
increased 3.2 percent, 1 percentag e point  less than in the preceding  period. The 
deceleration was apparent in both the wages and salaries component, which 
slowed a touch more than a percenta ge point, and the benefits component, 
which eased about 1/2 percentag e point. In contrast, the four-quarter chang e in 
compensation per hour in the nonfarm bus iness sector, which was running  far 
below chang es in the EC I a year ag o, accel erated sharpl y over t he course of 
2002 and increased 4.2 percent for last y ear as a whole. Althoug h these two 
compensation measures differ in many  way s, we believe that a major 
contributor to the disparate swing s over the past couple of y ears was proceeds 
from the ex ercise of stock options, whic h are included in the compensation per 
hour measure but not in the ECI . 
So far this y ear, the available compe nsation da ta are limite d to r eadings on 
averag e hourly  earning s of production or nonsupervisory  workers on private 
nonfarm pay rolls. This measure of wag es rose 0.7 percent in F ebruary  after 
having  edged down 0.1 percent in J anuary . Looking  past the monthly  volatility , 
averag e hourly  earning s were up 3.2 percen t from the level a y ear earlier, a bit 
lowe r than the  rate of increase poste d in the previous twelve months. The 
II-38
II-39
II-40
slowdown in wag es has been fairly  widespread among  industries, with all 
sectors ex cept the ret ail trade and fi nance,  insurance, and real  estate categories 
seeing  a deceleration in hourly  earning s over the y ear. 
II-41

II-42

Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1 
Selected Financial Market Quotations 
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted) 
Change to Mar. 11 from 
2000 2001 2003 2003 selected dates (percentage points) 
Instrument 2000 2001 2003 
June 26 Sept. 10 Jan. 29 Mar. 11 June 26 Sept. 10 Jan. 29 
Short-term 
FOMC intended federal funds rate 6.50 3.50 1.25 1.25 -5.25 -2.25 .00 
Treasury bills 1 
3-month 5.66 3.19 1.16 1.08 -4.58 -2.11 -.08 
6-month 5.94 3.13 1.18 1.05 -4.89 -2.08 -.13 
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates) 
1-month 6.56 3.42 1.24 1.19 -5.37 -2.23 -.05 
3-month 6.56 3.24 1.23 1.14 -5.42 -2.10 -.09 
Large negotiable CDs 1 
1-month 6.64 3.46 1.26 1.23 -5.41 -2.23 -.03 
3-month 6.73 3.26 1.26 1.17 -5.56 -2.09 -.09 
6-month 6.89 3.24 1.26 1.11 -5.78 -2.13 -.15 
Eurodollar deposits 2 
1-month 6.63 3.41 1.26 1.20 -5.43 -2.21 -.06 
3-month 6.69 3.26 1.26 1.17 -5.52 -2.09 -.09 
Bank prime rate 9.50 6.50 4.25 4.25 -5.25 -2.25 .00 
Intermediate- and long-term 
U.S. Treasury3 
2-year 6.54 3.59 1.77 1.39 -5.15 -2.20 -.38 
10-year 6.35 5.14 4.30 3.82 -2.53 -1.32 -.48 
30-year 6.22 5.55 5.12 4.83 -1.39 -.72 -.29 
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 4.09 3.26 2.18 1.62 -2.47 -1.64 -.56 
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 4 5.99 5.25 5.17 5.06 -.93 -.19 -.11 
Private instruments 
10-year swap 7.38 5.62 4.43 3.98 -3.40 -1.64 -.45 
10-year FNMA5 7.19 5.68 4.67 4.19 -3.00 -1.49 -.48 
10-year AA 6 7.64 6.30 5.28 4.71 -2.93 -1.59 -.57 
10-year BBB 6 8.40 7.11 6.67 6.07 -2.33 -1.04 -.60 
High-yield 7 12.30 12.72 11.58 11.23 -1.07 -1.49 -.35 
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 8 
30-year fixed 8.14 6.89 5.91 5.67 -2.47 -1.22 -.24 
1-year adjustable 7.22 5.64 3.93 3.76 -3.46 -1.88 -.17 
Change to Mar. 11 
Record high 2001 2003 from selected dates (percent) 
Stock exchange index Record 2001 2003 
Level Date Sept. 10 Jan. 29 Mar. 11 high Sept. 10 Jan. 29 
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 9,606 8,111 7,524 -35.82 -21.67 -7.23 
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 1,093 864 801 -47.58 -26.71 -7.36 
Nasdaq (OTC) 5,049 3-10-00 1,695 1,358 1,271 -74.82 -25.00 -6.38 
Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 441 375 347 -42.75 -21.26 -7.42 
Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 10,104 8,194 7,610 -48.41 -24.68 -7.12 
1. Secondary market. 
2. Bid rates for eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time. 
3. Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities. 
4. Most recent Thursday quote. 
5. Constant maturity yields estimated from Fannie Mae domestic non-callable coupon securities. 
6. Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data. 
7. Merrill Lynch Master II high-yield bond. 
8. For week ending Friday previous to date shown. 
_______________________________________________________________________ 
NOTES: 
June 26, 2000, is the day before the FOMC meeting that ended the most recent period of policy tightening. 
September 10, 2001, is the day before the terrorist attacks. January 28, 2003, is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting. 
_______________________________________________________________________ 
BA:DAM 
Selected Interest Rates
Expected Federal Funds Rates Estimated from 
Financial Futures Percent 
3.5 
March 11, 2003 January 28, 2003 3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
Mar. Aug. Jan. May Oct. Mar. 
2003 2004 2005 
Note. Estimates from federal funds and eurodollar futures rates with 
an allowance for term premia and other adjustments. 
Short-Term Interest Rates Treasury Yield Curve 
Percent 
5 
January 28, 2003 
March 11, 2003 4 
3 
2 
1 
1 3 5 7 10 
Maturity in years 
Note. Smoothed yield curve estimated using off-the-run Treasury 
coupon securities. Yields shown are those on notional par Treasury 
securities with semiannual payments. 
Percent 
Daily 
Discount rate* 
Federal funds 2-year Treasury Jan. 28 
FOMC 
Mar. 
11 
Jan. Mar. May July Sept. Nov. Jan. Mar. May July Sept. Nov. Jan. Mar. 
2001 2002 2003 
* On Jan. 9, 2003, the primary credit rate replaced the adjustment credit rate. 
Long-Term Interest Rates 
Percent 
9 
Daily 
10-year BBB 
30-year municipal* 
10-year Treasury Jan. 28 
FOMC 
Mar. 
11 8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
Dec. May Oct. Mar. Aug. Jan. 
2000 2001 2002 2003 
*Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency. TIIS Inflation Compensation 
Percent 
Daily 
10-Year 
5-Year Jan. 28 
FOMC 
Mar. 
11 
Jan. May Oct. Mar. Aug. Jan. 
2001 2002 2003 
Note. Measured as the inflation rate at which the price of the 
indexed security equals the value of a portfolio of zero-coupon 
securities that replicates its payments. 8 
6 
4 
2 
0 
2.50 
2.25 
2.00 1.75 
1.50 
1.25 
1.00 
Dom estic Financial Developm ents
Overview 
Heightened global unc ertainties and economic data that sug gested g rowth 
remains slug gish se emed to r einforce a sense of caution among  investors, 
bolste ring the demand for Treasury and othe r fixed-income securities at the 
expense of equities. Against this b ackdrop, the ex pected path for monetary 
policy  shifted down consider ably, and investors now place sig nificant odds on a 
polic y easing at the upcoming  meeting, with no reversal before y ear-end. 
Despite this g reater deg ree of caution, financial markets operated relatively 
smoothly . Borrowing  by nonfinancial bus inesses continued at a moderate pace 
last month and was ag ain focused on longer-term markets. Household 
borrowing  appears to have remained  brisk, and municipal borrowing  has 
maintained its robust pace so far this y ear. Althoug h federal deficits pushed the 
quantity of debt outsta nding  to the  statutory debt ceiling, the Treasury has 
resorted to tried and true  accounting  devices to avoid disruptions to its reg ular 
auctions with no adverse r eaction in f inancial markets. 
Policy Expectati ons, Interest Rates, an d Stock Prices 
The stunning  contraction in employ ment that was published on March 7 led 
market participants to chang e their expectations about near-term monetary 
policy . Federal funds futures quotes now  imply  a sig nificant probability  of a 
policy easing at the upcom ing meeting, and recent  survey  data suggest that most 
market participants expect the FOMC will r etain a neutral balance of risk 
assessment, thoug h the number that ex pect a shift toward economic weakness 
rose sharply . Policy  expectations be yond the March meeting  had already  been 
moving  lower, evidently  as investors c oncluded that heig htened g lobal tensions 
and the still-tenuous economic  recovery  would incline the Committee to keep 
any move  towa rd polic y tightening on hold until ne xt year at the earliest. 
Consistent with the perception of economic  softness, most measures of inflation 
expectations were subdued over the period. Survey s sug gested that long er-term 
inflation e xpectations we re little  changed and te n-year TIIS inflation 
compensation edg ed up only  a few basis poi nts. At the five-y ear mark, TI IS 
inflation compensation rose about 30 basis points, but that likely  owed in part to 
the recent runup in oil prices and possibl e supply  pressures on nominal five-y ear 
Treasury  yields from an a nnounced increase in issuance. 
Broad stock price index es have declined  about 6 percent since the last F OMC 
meeting  and 8 percent from the time of  the J anuary  Greenbook. One reading  on 
the equi ty risk prem ium—the spread bet ween t he forward earni ngs-price rat io 
and real Treasury  yields—widened over the intermeeting  period, and, on 
balance, the implied volatility  on the S& P 100 (VI X) increased a notch. 
III-2
III-3
Althoug h rising  oil prices boosted the shar e prices of larg e oil companies, prices 
fell for nearly  all other industry  groups . The telecom sector sig nificantly 
underperformed the broader market, par tly reflecting  the effect on the B aby 
Bells of the F CC’s surprise vote for c ontinued reg ulation of local phone service. 
Despite the fall in stock prices, y ields on most hig h-grade corporate bonds fell a 
bit mor e than those  on Tr easury securities, leaving risk spr eads slig htly 
narrower. Market participants attribute  the contraction in spr eads to a  shift from 
equitie s to f ixed-income securities, and especially to corporates, possibly 
because of their hig her y ields. The sh ift in investor sen timent toward fix ed 
income was also reflected in larg e out flows from equity  mutual funds and even 
larger inflows to bond funds during  the first two months of the y ear. Risk 
spreads for a few troubled firms, incl uding  Ford Motor Credit, which has a 
substantial quantity  of bonds, rose shar ply, and bid-asked spreads reportedly 
have been somewhat wider than nor mal. Spreads on speculative-g rade bonds 
increased a bi t as wel l. 
Busine ss Financ e 
Gross issuance of corporate bonds by  nonf inancial firms moderated in F ebruary 
from  a fai rly strong pace i n January . Firms cont inued t o take advant age of l ow 
bond y ields, and a siz able chunk of issuan ce has been used to pay  down short-
term debt . Also, som e corporat e treasurers have report ed accel erating deal s 
prior to a possible war. The issuance of junk bonds was well maintained in the 
first two months of the y ear, and a goodly  number of junk deals are on the 
calendar of upcoming  issues. After accounting  for retirements, net debt 
financing  by nonfinancial firms appears to have risen, on averag e, in J anuary 
and F ebruary  from the fourth quarter of last year, refl ecting both increased net 
bond issuance and a slower pace of cont raction in commerc ial paper and C& I 
loans. 
Gross equity  issuance has continued to be  weak, likely  held back by  soft stock 
prices. There have been no initial public  offering s for nonfin ancial firms since 
the start of the year, and very  few are anticipated over the nex t several months. 
Seasoned offeri ngs in January  cont inued at  their modest  fourt h-quart er pace, but 
then dropped back in February ; in both m onths, most proceeds were used to pay 
down short-term debt. With reg ard to equity retirements, share repurchases are 
likely  to have fallen this quarter, as a number of firms announced they  would 
begin paying divide nds. At the  same time , equity  retirements from c ash-
financed me rgers picked up a  little  from the  depressed level in the  fourth 
quarter. On ba lance, net equity  issua nce this qua rter will pr obably be a shade 
more negative than it wa s last qua rter. 
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
Corporate Earnings and Credit Quality 
Since the J anuary  Greenbook, the four-fifths of companies in the S &P 500 that 
had not y et reported earning s for the fourth  quart er of l ast year rel eased t heir 
results. For the index  as a whole, ear nings per share were up 14-1/2 percent 
from a  year earlier, imply ing a decline from the  third qua rter of 4 pe rcent at a 
quart erly rate. For t he first quart er, anal ysts current ly anticipate that earni ngs 
will just reverse the decline in the pr evious quarter. Of that amount, thoug h, 
three larg e oil companies account for most  of the ex pected increase, imply ing 
that earni ngs expectations for ot her sect ors are qui te lackluster. 
Measures of busine ss credit qua lity continue  to sug gest tha t many firms are still 
under financial stress. The bond default rate move d down a bit further in 
January  but remained quite elevated, wh ile the C& I loan de linquency  rate held 
at a relatively high level in the  fourth quarter of last y ear. Rating s downg rades 
of corporate bonds by  Moody ’s continue d to ex ceed upg rades in J anuary , albeit 
by a sm aller margin than i n the fourt h quart er. The ag gregate year-ahead 
expected default frequency based on data from KMV remained at its elevated 
level in J anuary , and—g iven the decline in equity  prices in F ebruary —we are 
guessing  that this forward-looki ng measure edg ed up last month. 
Com mercial Real  Estate 
Commercial mortg age debt increased about  11 percent at an annual rate in the 
fourth quarter as firms borrowed ag ainst the value of comme rcial real estate to 
take advantag e of low inte rest rates. However, weak CMB S issuance in the 
current  quart er may indicate that a slowing is in train. Despite the hig h vacancy 
rates in ma ny markets, CMB S inve stors do not appear to  be particularly 
concerned about credit loss. Spreads on different rating s tranches of CMB S 
over swaps remain in the  lowe r half of the rang es observed over the past few 
years, and delinquency  rates on these secur ities have been stable for more than a 
year at a moderate level. Even mo re favorably , delinque ncies on commercial 
mortg ages held at commercial banks have been declining  since mid-2001. 
Legislation passed late  last year requi red com panies to offer t errorism insurance, 
but to da te, anecdotal reports sug gest very little  demand for this c overage. 
House hold F inanc e 
Household debt continued to increase ra pidly , supported by  declining  mortg age 
rates. Mortg age debt, which represen ts about 70 percent of total household 
debt, expanded i n the fourt h quart er at the fast est pace i n sixteen y ears, fuel ed 
by refinancing  activity . Refinancing activity  appears to have moved up ag ain in 
the first quarter. In contrast, consumer  credit sta lled in the  fourth qua rter, 
perhaps as 
III-8
III-9
households used cash ex tracted thr ough refinancing s to pay  down more 
expensive consumer debt.1 
The household sector appears to have remained on g enerally  solid financial 
footing  throug h year-end. Declines in the interest rates paid on household debt 
and a lengthening of debt ma turities led to a  downtic k in the  debt-service 
burden in the fourth quarter, and de linquency  rates on both mortg ages and 
consumer loans at commercia l banks fell a bit. In contrast, delinquency  rates on 
credit card accounts held at commercial banks edg ed up for the second quarter 
in a row, and the bankruptcy  rate remains at a high level. 
Household assets relative to disposable income rose s lightly last quarter, driven 
by a small rebound in stock prices and c ontinued increases in house prices. The 
recent  slump in equi ty prices, however, has l ikely caused t his ratio to drop back 
somewhat in the current quarter. With stock prices down, household portfolios, 
as measured by  flows to mutual funds, ha ve been shifting  strong ly toward fix ed-
income inve stme nts. 
State and Loc al Government Financ e 
Althoug h gross issuance of long -term m unicipal bonds slowed in J anuary  and 
February  from  the ex traordi nary pace i n the fourt h quart er of l ast year, i t 
nevertheless continue d to be robust, particularly  for education-related capital 
expenditures. In conjunction with its  maneuvering  to stay  under the debt 
ceiling, the Treasury tempor arily suspe nded the  issua nce of state and loc al 
government securities (SL GS)—nonmarke table Treasury  securities in which 
municipalities invest the proceeds of bond sales to comply  with arbitrag e 
rules—but this measure appa rently  caused few problems. 
State and local g overnments remain unde r severe fiscal stress, thoug h credit 
quality does not a ppear to ha ve worsened in r ecent months. The yield spr ead 
between AAA-rated and B BB-rated revenue bonds stay ed at a hig h level, and 
the number of bonds downg raded by  S&P has only  slightly outpaced upg rades 
so far t his year. 
Treasu ry an d Agen cy Finance 
The federal deficit rose in  February , boosted in part by income tax  refunds that 
have been running  ahead of last y ear’s pace. As ex pected, the statutory  federal 
debt limit was reached last month, and Tr easury  Secretary  Snow announced in a 
letter to the Cong ress that, beg inning  February  19, the Treasury  would not 
1. In January , consumer credit appears to  have reversed c ourse and ex panded 
at a robust rate. However, because th ese monthly  numbers are often subject to 
revision, the J anuary  figure should be reg arded as quite tentative. 
III-10
III-11
III-12

III-13
continue to invest fully  the Thrift Sa vings Fund (the G-fund). Even with this 
and other ex traordinary  financing  measur es at its disposal, the Treasury  warned 
that it ma y run out of  operating room in e arly April if the limit is not r aised. 
In its mid-quarter refunding  announcemen t, the Treasury  described chang es for 
its auction schedule in lig ht of current and projected federal deficits. Beginning 
with the May  auction, the three-y ear not e will be reintroduced. In addition, the 
five-y ear note will be reopened reg ularly, one month following  each quarterly 
auction, reducing  Treasury ’s depe ndence on short-dated securities. 
Comments made by  President Poole on March 10 about the risks F reddie Mac 
and F annie Mae pose to financial market s caused their stock prices to fall 
sharply , but they  have risen a bit sin ce. Yield spreads on their debt widened 
somewhat  after the statement, but then l argely reversed course. Market 
participants reportedly  focused on the speci ficity of President Poole’s assertions 
that the ag encies appear to be undercapita lized and that an adverse shock “in the 
absence of robust conting ency arrang emen ts” could result in a financial market 
crisis and damag e the housing industry  and the U.S. economy . 
Money and Bank C redit 
M2 g rowth rebounded in J anuary  after a brief slowdown in December. Growth 
in February  was even strong er as li quid deposits were sw elled by  tax refunds 
and by  escrow accounts associated w ith the elevated level of mortg age 
refinancing s. Smoothing  throug h the m onthly  fluctuations and abstracting  from 
these speci al factors, M2 g rowth appears t o have pi cked up from  its pace i n the 
fourth quarter. The non-M2 portion of M3 was little chang ed in F ebruary ; the 
continued runoff in institutional money funds was offset by  an acceleration in 
large time  deposits. 
Bank credi t grew at  a rapi d pace i n February , as low interest rates prom pted 
further robust mortg age and home equity  borrowing . In addition, commercial 
banks substa ntially increased the ir holding s of mortgage-backed securities in 
February , another sig nificant component of the increase in bank credit. Lending 
to busine sses slumpe d, howe ver, as many firms have been me eting their limite d 
need for funds throug h bond financing . This runoff in C& I loans has occurred 
exclusively  at larg e banks, as business lending  at smaller ba nks has continued to 
expand. 
According  to the F ebruary  Survey  of Terms of B usiness L ending , the averag e 
spread on l arge C&I loans over com parabl e-maturity market rates decl ined 
notably, mostly reversi ng the sharp i ncrease t hat was recorded i n the Novem ber 
survey. The spread on sma ll C& I loans wa s little  changed. 
III-14
III-15
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S.  International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The U.S. international trade deficit in January was $41.1 billion, much smaller
than recorded in December, as ex ports rebounded and imports declined.
Exports of goods and services rose 1.6 percent in January following a large
decline in December.  Goods exports ju mped 2.5 percent in January, reversing
more than half of the drop in December.   Broadly-based increases in core goods
and a rise in computers we re only partly offset by a decline in semiconductors. 
Nonetheless, the level of exported goods in January was below the average for
the fourth quarter of 2002.  Services recei pts edged off slightly in January after
rising steadily for four months.
Imports of goods and services declined 2 percent in January from the high levels
recorded in November and December, but  were still well above the average for
the fourth quarter.  The decrease in January came largely from core goods,
especially consumer goods, automotiv e products from Europe and Japan, and
industrial supplies—categorie s of trade that had risen during the previous two
months.  Partly offsetting these declines were strong increases in imports ofcomputers and oil.  The increase in the value of imported oil resulted from asharp increase in price that more than offset a moderate decline in quantity. Services payments declined only slightly in January from a high recorded inDecember.
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
Prices of Internatio nally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In both December and January , the price of imported non-oil
goods and the price of imported core goods increased, by 0.2 and 0.3 percent
respectively.  Rates of increase this large have not occurred since April 2002. 
Within core goods, the largest price in crease was observed in non-oil industrial
supplies, which rose 1.4 percent, prompted to a large extent by a higher price for
natural gas, but also by a higher price for non-monetary gold.  Prices also moved
up in foods, feeds and beverage s, which rose 0.7 percent, led by higher prices for
coffee and for vegetables.  Prices in other major categories were generally littlechanged.  The January level of core im port prices was about 2 percent, at an
annual rate, above the fourth quarter level.
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose 12.4 percent in January after rising a
revised 6.2 percent in December.  The s pot price of West Texas intermediate
(WTI) crude oil also rose in January, av eraging nearly $33 per barrel, more than
$3 per barrel higher than in December.  The spot price of WTI has remainedelevated, averaging nearly $36 per barrel in February and is currently around $37
per barrel.  The recent increase in oil pr ices reflects the market’s perception that
military action in Iraq may occur s oon, increased oil demand resulting from
unusually cold weather in the United States and the temporary shutdown of
nuclear reactors in Japan, and low oil i nventories.  Reduced oil supplies from
Venezuela also continue to keep  upward pressure on oil prices.
Exports.   In January, the price of exported total goods and the price of exported
core goods increased 0.4 and 0.5 percent, respectively.  Within core goods, the
largest price movement in January wa s a 1.3 percent increase in the price of
industrial supplies, driven largely by prices for petroleum-based products and
non-monetary gold (as with imports).  Pr ices also moved in capital goods, which
rose 0.4 percent, prompted by higher m achinery prices.  Prices in other major
categories were generally little  changed.  The January level of core goods export
prices was about 1¾ percent (a.r.) above the fourth quarter level. 
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
Foreign private purchases of U.S. s ecurities totaled $368 billion (net) in 2002,
slightly below the record pace of 2001 (line 4 of the Summary of U.S.International Transactions table).  By contrast, U.S.  investors purchased only $2
billion (net) in foreign securities, the lo west amount in thirty years (line 5). 
Thus, U.S. net private portfolio infl ows through securities amounted to $366
billion last year, well above the sizable ne t inflows recorded in recent years.  In
addition, net foreign official inflows totaled $91 billion for the year, compared
with only $2 billion in 2001.  In contrast, direct investment flows shifted from
small net inflows in 2001 to outflows of $67 billion through the first three
IV-6
quarters of 2002.  (Fourth-quart er balance of payments data will be released on
March 14 and included in the Greenbook supplement.) 
Foreign official assets held in the Un ited States (line 1) increased $32 billion in
the fourth quarter of 2002,     
                     .  In January, foreign officialinflows were a more mode rate $5 billion.  However,  partial data from the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York indi cate a further increase of $28 billion in
February, resulting primarily from increases for Korea, China, and Japan. 
Foreign private net purchases of U.S. securities (line 4) totaled $27 billion in
January, just under the robust monthly p ace of last year.  Net purchases of
Treasury securities (line 4a) picked up in  December, and for the second half of
the year amounted to $66 billion, compared with net sales in the first six months
and in the previous two years.  In January, private foreigners again made
moderate net sales of Treasury securities.   Net purchases of agency securities
(line 4b) remained strong in the fourth quarter and in January.  Net purchases of
corporate debt securities (line 4c) slowed in the third quarter but picked upmarkedly in the fourth quarter and ev en more so in January, reflecting the
general pattern of corporate issuance.  Foreign net acquisitions of U.S. equities(line 4d) remained modest in the four th quarter and sli pped to net sales in
January.  For 2002 as a whole, net purch ases of equities were only $56 billion,
less than half the average annual infl ow recorded over the 1999-2001 period.   
Following net purchases of $127 billion in 2000 and $95 billion in 2001, U.S.
net acquisitions of foreig n securities (line 5) totaled only $2 billion in 2002, as
modest net sales through the first three quarters were offset by purchases of $13
billion in the fourth quarter.  In January, net purchases of foreign securitiestotaled nearly $10 billion.  Whereas U.S. residents were net sellers of foreign
bonds for most of 2001 and 2002, they recorded net purchases of foreign bondsin December and in January.  
Net banking flows (line 3) amounted to  an inflow of $94 billion in 2002, with
more than half this amount occurring in  December.  This marked a change from
previous years when net flows on an annual basis had been  fairly small. 
Banking flows are typically large and volatile at a monthly frequency and mostoften reflect swings in interbank funding  activity.  These monthly  swings tend
to be offsetting; and in January, net banking flows recorded a very large outflowof $45 billion. 
IV-7
Summary of U.S. International Transactions
(Billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted except as noted)
2001 20022002 2003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan.
Official financial flows 2.3 91.2 7.0 45.7 7.1 31.5 11.8 6.1
1. Change in foreign official assets
in the U.S. (increase, +) 7.2 94.9 6.6 47.5 8.5 32.3 12.8 4.8
a.  G-10 countries -7.9 30.3 4.9 17.6 1.8 6.0 1.0 5.1
b.  OPEC countries -1.9 -6.4 -6.6 1.1 -1.3 .5 -1.5 -2.1
c.  All other countries 22.1 70.9 8.3 28.8 8.0 25.9 13.2 1.9
2. Change in U.S. official reserve
assets (decrease, +) -4.9 -3.7 .4 -1.8 -1.4 -.8 -1.0 1.2
Private financial flows 379.5 n.a. 80.6 27.6 165.4 n.a. ... ...
Banks
3. Change in net foreign positions
of banking offices in the U.S.111.0 94.2 5.2 -27.6 65.7 51.0 50.9 -44.9
Securities2
4. Foreign net purchases of U.S.
securities (+) 403.5 368.3 70. 7 95.9 100.3 101.4 29.8 26.7
a. Treasury securities -5.5 58.7 1.5 -9.0 53.2 13.0 8.5 -2.1b. Agency bonds  85.3 93.4  2.4 32.9 22.0. 36.0 7.2 10.9c. Corporate and municipal bonds 201.8 160.2 43.3 60.0 17.2 39.8 11.6 21.5d. Corporate stocks
3121.9 56.0 23.4 12.1 8.0 12.6 2.4 -3.5
5. U.S. net acquisitions (-) of
foreign securities -95.0 -2.1 2.0 -9.3 18.0 -12.8 -10.2 -9.7
a. Bonds 12.4 17.3  .6 10.4 5.7 .6 -6.3 -3.0b. Stock purchases -62.7 -15.9 3.2 -19.8 14.0 -13.4 -3.9 -6.7c. Stock swaps
3-44.7 -3.5 -1.8 .0 -1.7 .0 .0 .0
Other flows (quarterly data, s.a.)
6. U.S. direct investment (-) abroad -127.8 n.a. -29.3 -34.3 -27.5 n.a. ... ...7. Foreign direct investment in U.S. 130.8 n.a. 16.2 -2.7 11.0 n.a. ... ...8. Foreign holdings of U.S. currency 23.8 n.a. 4.5 7.2 2.6 n.a. ... ...9. Other (inflow, + )
4 33.4 n.a.  11.3 -1.6 -4.8 n.a. ... ...
U.S. current account (s.a.) -393.4 n.a. -112.5 -127.6 -127.0 n.a. ... ...
Capital account balance (s.a.)5.8 n.a. .2 .2 .2 n.a. ... ...
Statistical discrepancy (s.a.) 10.7 n.a. 24.7 54.2 -45.6 n.a. ... ...
NOTE:  The sum of official and private financial flows, the current account balance, the capital account balance, and the
statistical discrepancy is zero.  Details may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1.  Changes in dollar-denominated positions of all depository institutions and bank holding companies plus certain
transactions between broker-dealers and unaffiliated foreigners (particularly borrowing and lending under repurchaseagreements). Includes changes in custody liabilities other than U.S. Treasury bills.
2.  Includes adjustments BEA makes to account for incomple te coverage, but excludes adjustments for commissions and
therefore does not match exactly the data on U.S. international transactions published by the Department of Commerce.
3.  Includes (4d) or represents (5c) stocks acquired through mergers.4.  Transactions by nonbanking concerns and other banking and official transactions not shown elsewhere plus amounts
resulting from adjustments made by the Department of Commerce and revisions in lines 1 through 5 since publication of thequarterly data in the Survey of Current Business.
5. Consists of transactions in nonproduced nonfinancial assets and capital transfers.
n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.  
IV-8
Foreign Exchange Markets
The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the trade-weighted major
currencies index, was little changed on balance through most of the intermeetingperiod as movements in individual currencies mostly offset each other.  In lateFebruary, however, the dollar began to de preciate against other major currencies
amid rising international political tensions.  On net, the major currencies indexfell 1.1 percent over the period.
The dollar depreciated 0.4 percent on bala nce against the yen.  On January 31,
the Japanese Ministry of Finance surp rised markets by announcing that it had
been intervening in foreign exchange markets, selling just under $6 billionequivalent of yen.  Over the next few weeks the dollar appreciated on net against
the yen.  In late February, however, the dollar depreciated versus the yen
following the announcement that To shihiko Fukui would succeed Masaru
Hayami as Governor of the Bank of Japan.  The appointment reportedly
diminished market expectations that the next head of the Bank of Japan mightpursue radical quantitative easing measures.  The appreciation of the yenprompted another round of covert intervention by Ja panese authorities, and at
the end of February the Bank of Japan re ported that the Ministry of Finance had
sold another ¥513 billion ($4.4 billion equivalent).
IV-9
The U.S. dollar depreciated 3.3 percent against the Canadian dollar.  Market
participants appear to expect the U.S.-Canadian interest rate differential to continue to favor the Canadian curre ncy and to widen.  The Bank of Canada
raised its target for its key overnight in terest rate 25 basis points to 3 percent on
March 4.  Late in the intermeeting period the dollar depreciated somewhat
against the euro, in part as a result of comments by Treasury Secretary Snow inwhich he appeared to express a lack  of concern about the dollar’s recent
fluctuations.  On balance, the dollar ha s depreciated 0.4 percent against the euro. 
On March 6, the European Central Bank cut the minimum bid rate on its mainrefinancing operations 25 ba sis points, somewhat less than market participants
had expected, to 2.5 percent, but this action had little effect on foreign exchange
rates.  The Bank of England surprised market participants by cutting its two-week repo rate 25 basis points to 3.75 percent on February 6.  Over the
intermeeting period, the dollar has appr eciated 2 percent against sterling.
European share prices have tumbled since the January FOMC meeting, more
than giving up their early January gains and hitting new multi-year lows.  In theeuro area, earnings warnings by several large insurers and concerns about the
effect of the euro’s appreciation on th e earnings of non-financial firms dragged
share prices down 9.6 percent.  Contri buting to the declines, a large Dutch
retailer admitted that it had improperly booked profits at its American
IV-10
subsidiary, reviving concerns about cor porate malfeasance.  Share price declines
in the United Kingdom were less severe.  The U.K. Fi nancial Services Authority
announced that it would allow insurers to  seek waivers for the amount of cash
reserves they need to hold, reducing pre ssure on the companies to sell shares in
their portfolios.  The TOPIX index of Japa nese equity prices fell 7.4 percent to a
19-year low, driven by large declin es in the share prices of banks.
Industrial country sovereign bond yiel ds fell over the intermeeting period,
especially on short-maturity issues.  Ac tual and expected monetary policy easing
in the euro area and in the United Ki ngdom led to a pronounced steepening of
sovereign yield curves in Europe.  Ja panese government bond yields continued
to fall from their already low levels, and on March 12, the yield on the ten-year
benchmark JGB hit a new all-time low of 71 basis points.
IV-11
In addition to the monetary policy ch anges noted above, on March 6 the Swiss
National Bank lowered its target range fo r three-month Swiss franc LIBOR to a
range from 0 percent to 0.75 percent, from the earlier range of 0.25 percent to
1.25 percent; the Danish central bank lowe red its policy rate 25 basis points to
2.70 percent; and on March 5, the central bank of Norway eased its deposit rate
50 basis points to 5.50 percent.
The Bank of Mexico tightened policy on February 7 by raising the “corto”—the
amount by which it leaves its domestic ba nking market short of reserves—to 625
million pesos from 550 million pesos.  The twelve-month rate of inflation in
Mexico, at 5.2 percent in January, is s till well above the Bank of Mexico’s year-
end target of 3 percent.  The Mexican peso has appreciated 1 percent on balance
against the dollar since the January FOMC meeting.
The Brazilian real appreciated 5.9 percent against the dollar over the
intermeeting period and the spread over Treasury yields of Brazilian sovereigndebt issued in dollars, as measured by the Brazil EMBI+ index, fell 320 basis
points.  Market participants were en couraged by news that Brazil’s primary
fiscal surplus for 2002 was over 4 percent of GDP, well above the
IMF-mandated target of 3.75 percent.  Additionally, the central bank of Brazil
raised its target overnight interest rate (the SELIC rate) by 1.00 percentage point
to 26.50 percent.
The government of Venezuela announced on February 6 that it would lift the
trading ban imposed on the bolivar in Ja nuary and fix the currency’s bilateral
exchange rate at 1,600 bolivars per dolla r.  Official trading has been limited;
black market exchange rates are reportedly around 2,400 bolivars per dollar.
Geopolitical events had surprisingly little direct effect on emerging financial
markets until late in the period.  Turkish asset prices came unde r pressure briefly
following the Turkish parliament’s deci sion not to allow U.S. troops to attack
Iraq from Turkey in the event of a war.   The Turkish lira depreciated 4 percent
against the dollar following the vote,  but on net the lira has appreciated
1.3 percent over the intermeeting period.  Steadily increasing tension on the
Korean peninsula has put downward pre ssure on South Korean asset prices. 
During the intermeeting period, the Kor ean won depreciated 5.6 percent, and
South Korean share prices  have fallen 11.5 percent.
           
 .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for
the accounts of the System or the Treasury.
IV-12
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
Growth weakened to a sluggish pace in the fourth quarter in most of the foreign
industrial nations, and recen t data indicate that this  slowdown has persisted in
the current quarter.  Real GDP growth in the fourth  quarter held up better in
Japan than in the other major foreig n industrial economies, as softness in
consumption was offset by a strong contribution from exports–though exports in
January were flat, suggesting this streng th may be waning.  In the euro area,
GDP growth slowed as investment declined  for the eighth straight quarter.  More
recent data suggest that a recovery in investment is likely to be outweighed by
continued weakness in cons umer spending.  Net expor ts held down the rate of
both Canadian and British GDP growth in the last quarter.  Signs of moderatinggrowth in household spending imply a diminished pace of expansion in theUnited Kingdom in the current quarter, while recent data in Canada points tocontinued strong grow th in domestic demand. 
High energy prices have contributed to twelve-month rates of consumer-price
inflation that are above the targets of mo st major foreign central banks.  In the
United Kingdom, rapid increases in housing prices have also added significantly
to the rate of inflation.  Japanese prices continue to  fall at a rate of about ¾
percent per year.
Faced with slowing growth, both the European Central Bank (ECB) and the
Bank of England have eased monetary po licy rates 25 basis points since January. 
In contrast, the Bank of Canada recently  raised interest rates 25 basis points,
citing the country’s above -target inflation rate.
In Japan , real GDP growth slowed to a revise d 2.2 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the fourth
quarter.  Private consumption edged up onl y slightly, a significant slowing from
earlier in the year.  Net exports contribut ed 1.3 percentage points to growth, with
a surge in exports outpacing a modest ri se in imports.  Business fixed investment
rose almost 11 percent, wh ile residential inve stment declined about 3 percent. 
Public investment fell near ly 5 percent.  Inventorie s were a slight drag on
growth, after contributing str ongly in previous quarters.
Recent indicators point to a softening in net exports and household spending,
which were sources of strength during much  of last year.  Exports declined and
imports rose slightly in January compared  with the fourth-quarter average, partly
in response to a stronger yen and in creased energy prices.  After dropping
sharply in December, household expenditu res rose in January, but were flat
compared with the fourth-quarter aver age.  New car registrations were about
unchanged in January and February on av erage from the fourth-quarter average. 
Industrial production rose 1½ percent in January from the previous month, but
IV-13
was only 0.6 percent above the fourth- quarter average.  The broader all-
industries index of output, a producti on-based proxy for GDP, declined 0.6
percent in December, and was down 1 percent during the fourth quarter on
average.  Core machinery orders, a leading indicator of business fixedinvestment, continued to recover, jumping 7 percent in January, but are still wellbelow recent peaks in late 2000.
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP -2.4 2.8 .4 5.5 3.1 2.2
Total domestic demand -1.8 1.8 -1.6 3.8 4.2 .9
Consumption 1.4 1.7 1.7 1.7 3.1 .3Private investment -10.6 3.4 -3.9 5.3 4.5 8.1Public investment -.7 -5.3 -.4 -8.6 -7.5 -4.6Government consumption 2.3 1.3 2.4 .4 2.5 -.2Inventories
2-.6 .3 -2.2 2.2 1.5 -.5
Exports -11.0 17.5 23.6 30.5 .5 17.6Imports -7.1 8.9 3.0 14.6 11.7 6.7Net exports
2-.6 1.0 2.0 1.8 -.9 1.3
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Labor market conditions remain very so ft.  The unemployment rate in January
rose to 5.5 percent, matching the reco rd-high rate registered in October. 
Employment in January was about 1 per cent below year-earlier levels.  The job-
offers-to-applicants ratio, a key leadin g indicator of employment conditions,
edged up to 0.60 in January, still a relatively low level.  
Prices continue to fall.  Core consumer goods prices in the Tokyo area (which
exclude fresh food but include energy) fell marginally in February and were
down 0.7 percent from a year ago.  Wholes ale prices for domestic goods fell 0.9
percent in the twelve months ending in  February.  Urban land prices were down
7 percent in September 2002 from a year ear lier.  The GDP deflator in the fourth
quarter was 2.3 percent belo w its year-earlier level.
IV-14
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production13.8 2.2 -1.0 -1.6 -.4 1.5 n.a.
All-industries index .3 .6 -1.1 -.8 -.6 n.a. n.a.Housing starts .1 -4.6 1.7 -6.4 .5 6.8 n.a.Machinery orders
27.1 -1.7 .3 -.2 5.2 7.0 n.a.
Machinery shipments36.6 1.6 .4 -.3 -1.0 4.8 n.a.
New car registrations 4.7 4.3 -.9 -1.5 -2.3 3.4 -.0Unemployment rate
45.4 5.4 5.4 5.3 5.3 5.5 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.52 .54 .57 .57 .59 .60 n.a.
Business sentiment6-32 -30 -28 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-1.1 -.9 -.7 -.7 -.7 -.6 -.7
Wholesale prices7-2.2 -1.9 -1.3 -1.2 -1.2 -1.0 -.9
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
On February 24, the government nominated Toshihiko Fukui as the next
Governor of the Bank of Japan (BOJ),  to succeed Masaru Hayami, whose term
ends on March 19.  Fukui, a former deput y governor of the BOJ, is currently
chairman of the Fujitsu Research Institute , a private research company.  Fukui’s
views on monetary policy are generally believed to be similar to those of Hayami,and his selection is unlikely to signal a major change in BOJ policy.  Inparticular, Fukui is thought to be skepti cal about the effectiv eness of additional
monetary easing and cautious about a dopting unorthodox measures to combat
deflation.  Two deputy gove rnors were also nominated: Toshiro Muto, former
vice minister of finance, and Kazumasa Iw ata, a senior official at the Cabinet
Office and a professor at the University  of Tokyo.  Both are thought to favor
more aggressive monetary easing. 
IV-15
On March 5, the BOJ announced a rise in its target range for outstanding
balances of financial ins titutions at the BOJ to ¥17-22 trillion (an increase of ¥2
trillion) to take effect April 1.  This is the same date from which the Japan PostalCorporation, a new public cor poration that is being esta blished to take over the
services of the postal system, will be required to hold ¥2 trillion in deposits at theBOJ.  In its announcement, the BOJ descri bed the move as a technical adjustment
rather than an effort to ease monetary policy.
Euro-Area Real GDP
1
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20012200222002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP .5 1.3 1.6 1.3 1.6 .7Total domestic demand .0 .8 -.1 .9 .9 1.6Consumption 1.6 1.0 -.7 1.4 1.7 1.4Investment -2.5 -1.8 -.8 -5.2 -.8 -.3Government consumption 1.6 2.6 3.0 3.9 1.4 2.2Inventories
3-.7 .1 -.1 .4 -.2 .3
Exports -2.8 4.1 .8 7.0 8.6 .1Imports -4.1 3.0 -3.8 6.3 7.4 2.5Net exports
3.5 .5 1.7 .4 .7 -.8
Memo:
France .4 1.7 2.8 1.8 1.2 .9Germany .1 .7 1.2 .6 1.2 -.1Italy .7 1.0 .0 .8 1.3 1.7
1. Includes Greece as of 2001 Q1.
2. Q4/Q4.3. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Euro-area GDP growth slowed to 0.7 percent in the fourth quarter, as most of
the gains in domestic demand were offset  by a rise in imports.  Consumption
grew sluggishly in the fourth quarter , despite a 4.2 percent jump in Italian
consumption driven in part by a te mporary tax cut boosting auto sales. 
Consumption rose only 0.6 percent on aver age in 2002, its lowest average annual
growth since 1991, when record keeping in the euro area began.  Investmentspending declined for the eighth cons ecutive quarter.  German growth turned
IV-16
negative with stagnant consumer spendi ng and a sizable negative contribution
from net exports more than offsetting the first rise in investment in two years.
Incoming data suggest a mode rate recovery in production in the first quarter from
weakness late last year.  February’s euro-area purchasing managers’ index (PMI)
for manufacturing, thought to be the most timely indicator of production, rose
just above the 50 level (the  threshold for positive growth).  Consistent with the
PMI data, French and German industr ial production for January rebounded from
December’s lows by 1.5 and 1.7 percent re spectively.  Germany’s IFO Business
Climate index improved in February.  In contrast, the European Commission’smeasure of industrial confiden ce dropped again in February. 
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production1.6 -.1 .0 .7 -1.5 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume2-.3 .5 -.5 -.7 -1.1 n.a. n.a.
Unemployment rate38.2 8.3 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.6 n.a.
Consumer confidence4-8.3 -10.0 -14.0 -14.0 -16.0 -18.0 -19.0
Industrial confidence4-10.7 -11.7 -10.3 -11.0 -9.0 -10.0 -11.0
Mfg. orders, Germany 2.1 -1.2 .3 1.4 -4.4 n.a. n.a.CPI
52.1 2.1 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.2 2.3
Producer prices5-.8 -.1 1.2 1.1 1.5 2.0 n.a.
M357.3 7.2 6.8 7.0 6.8 7.4 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Excludes motor vehicles.3. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO defi nition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.     n.a.  Not available.
Data on consumer expenditure  is mixed.  A 2.2 percent increase in German retail
sales  in January and a jump in euro-area retail confidence indicators in February
does give some sign of impr ovement in euro-area consum er spending in the first
quarter of 2003.  However, euro-area cons umer confidence slipped for the fifth
IV-17
straight month in February, falling to its lowest level since 1994, with consumer
perceptions of the general economic situation and employment conditions
continuing to deteriorate.  Also, the eu ro-area services PMI has been declining
for the past few months and is now below 50, indicating contraction. 
The twelve-month rate of euro-area consum er price inflation remained above the
ECB’s target ceiling of 2 percent in Febr uary.  Excluding energy and unprocessed
food, twelve-month inflation fell to 2 per cent in January, its lowest rate since
August 2001.  Twelve-month producer pri ce inflation rose to 2 percent in
January.
The ECB reduced its key policy rate 25 basis points on March 6 to 2.5 percent,
citing increased evidence that inflationary  pressures are easing, because of the
subdued pace of economic growth a nd the appreciation of the euro.
U.K. Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 1.6 2.1 .6 2.5 3.8 1.5
Total domestic demand 2.0 2.9 2.3 -.1 3.7 5.7
Consumption 4.1 3.7 2.7 4.5 3.4 4.0Investment -5.5 -3.3 -10.5 5.5 -5.0 -2.5Government consumption 5.1 2.3 4.5 -3.5 5.2 3.2Inventories
2-.5 .6 1.6 -3.6 1.5 3.0
Exports -5.2 -.3 1.4 16.3 -3.7 -13.0Imports -2.8 2.2 6.6 5.2 -1.3 -1.2Net exports
2-.7 -1.0 -2.1 3.0 -.8 -4.1
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
In the United Kingdom , fourth-quarter real GDP gr owth was sluggish, after a
robust third quarter.  Growth in consumer spending rema ined strong.  Inventories
added 3 percentage points to growth, but  gross fixed capital formation continued
to decline as it has for seven of the past  eight quarters.  Net exports subtracted
substantially from growth as exports tumbled while imports only dropped a bit.
IV-18
Data for the first quarter suggest that the pace of activity will continue to be
positive, but sluggish.  Industrial produc tion in January continued to decline,
though manufacturing output rose slightly .  In recent months, the manufacturing
PMI has been sliding and is now belo w 50, indicating contraction.  However,
business confidence has remained relatively flat since declining in November,and remains well above  its late 2001 low.  January  retail sales dropped after
rising in December, and the leading survey of retail sales indicates that  sales
declined further in February.  Februa ry’s services PMI slumped to 50.2, barely
indicating an expansion.  Consumer sen timent has plummeted in the past couple
months, mostly due to lower expectations  of the general economic situation and
now is at its lowest level since October 2001.
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production .3 .4 -.8 -.4 -.2 -.1 n.a.
Retail sales volume11.7 .7 1.7 .1 1.1 -1.3 n.a.
Unemployment rate2
      Claims-based 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 n.a.      Labor force survey
35.2 5.2 n.a. 5.1 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence48.0 10.7 3.0 2.0 -1.0 2.0 -1.0
Consumer confidence5-4.0 -3.0 -3.0 -1.0 -6.0 -9.0 -10.0
Retail prices61.9 2.0 2.6 2.8 2.7 2.7 n.a.
Producer input prices7-5.9 -2.3 1.4 -.7 2.8 4.6 5.9
Average earnings73.9 3.8 3.7 4.0 3.6 n.a. n.a.
      1. Excludes motor vehicles. 
      2. Percent
3. Three-month average centered on month shown.4. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expecting output to decrease.
5. Average of the percentage balance from consumers’ expectations of their financial
situation, general economic situation, unemployment, and savings over the next 12 months.
6. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.7. Percent change from year earlier.
     ...  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
Nationwide, Britain’s largest building society, reported that monthly housing
price inflation slowed to just 0.4 per cent in February, down from 1.7 percent in
January.  Housing prices rose 24.8 per cent in the twelve months ending in
IV-19
February, amid widespread public concern that Britain is experiencing a housing
price bubble.  Price increases slowed so mewhat in London, but prices continued
to increase briskly in much of the rest of the nation.  Borrowing to finance the
purchase of homes remained robust in January.
Labor market conditions ha ve remained tight.  The official claims-based
unemployment rate held steady at 3.1 percen t in January, near a record low.  The
twelve-month rate of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage interest payments)
remained at 2.7 percent in the January, above the Bank of England’s 2½ percent
target.  The twelve-month growth rate of  average earnings ebbed to 3.6 percent in
November.
The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) surprised markets by cutting the official
repo rate 25 basis points to 3.75 percent in early February.  This cut marks the
first time the MPC has changed rates si nce November 2001.  MPC minutes state
that members were concerne d about indications of a further weakening of the
manufacturing sector and slowing cons umption growth, while they felt that
inflation increases in coming months w ould be largely the result of temporary
factors.
Canadian Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP .8 3.9 6.0 4.4 3.6 1.6
Total domestic demand .1 5.8 6.0 10.0 2.9 4.6
Consumption 2.2 3.4 3.2 4.3 1.6 4.4Investment .5 4.8 6.5 4.7 6.2 2.1Government consumption 2.1 2.5 .1 3.6 3.0 3.5Inventories
2-1.6 2.1 2.5 5.2 .1 .8
Exports -6.1 2.0 4.7 2.6 9.4 -8.0Imports -9.2 7.2 4.5 19.8 6.5 -1.0Net exports
2.9 -1.7 .3 -5.5 1.5 -3.1
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
IV-20
In Canada , real GDP increased 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002,
following an upwardly revised 3.6 percent gain the third quarter.  Growth was
pulled down by a sizable drop in exports, especially in motor vehicle exports to
the United States.  Final domestic demand remained strong, as both consumption
and residential construc tion climbed robustly.  Firms also accumulated
inventories at an increased rate, fu rther supporting growth.  In December,
industrial production rebounded to its October leve l, fully recovering from
November’s decline, largely on account of gains in the mining and the oil and gas
extraction sectors.
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
GDP by industry 1.1 .9 .5 .0 .1 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production 1.3 1.1 .0 -.1 .1 n.a. n.a.New mfg. orders 3.7 .8 -.8 -1.5 -.9 n.a. n.a.Retail sales .8 .7 1.0 -.5 .2 n.a. n.a.Employment .9 .9 .8 .3 .3 -.0 .4Unemployment rate
17.6 7.6 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.4 7.4
Consumer prices21.3 2.3 3.8 4.3 3.9 4.5 n.a.
Core Consumer Prices2,32.0 2.2 3.1 3.2 3.4 3.4 n.a.
Consumer attitudes4125.3 124.2 122.6 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence4145.2 129.7 136.0 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes.4. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
Indicators suggest that domestic demand re mained strong in the first quarter,
particularly reside ntial construction.  Following a dip in January, housing starts
rebounded to a 13-year high in February, despite unseasonably cold weather.  The
labor market also exhibite d renewed vigor in February , following a brief pause in
January.  Employment gains continue d to be linked to the booming housing
sector, with the wood product manufacturing and the real estate service sectors
showing particular strength.  The unemp loyment rate remained at 7.4 percent in
IV-21
February, as an increase in the labor fo rce offset employment gains.  After a
record-setting December, motor vehicle sa les declined sharply in January, though
preliminary reports suggest sales recovered somewhat in February.  Exports, afterfalling in November and December, rebounde d in January on higher energy and
aircraft shipments.
In January, the twelve-month rate of h eadline CPI inflation rose to 4.5 percent
from 3.9 percent in December, moving fu rther above the ceiling of the Bank of
Canada’s 1 to 3 percent ta rget band.  This increase re flects higher energy prices
and increases in tobacco taxes, as well as  higher automobile insurance premiums. 
Twelve-month core infla tion, excluding food and energy prices, as well as
indirect taxes, remained fl at at 3.4 percent in January.
On March 4, the Bank of Canada increased its targeted overnight rate (its key
policy rate) and the Bank Rate 25 ba sis points each, to 3 percent and 3.25
percent, respectively.  In announc ing the hike, the Bank acknowledged
continuing geopolitical and global economic  uncertainties, but cited above-target
inflation and an economy operating near  capacity as motivating its action. 
Particularly, the Bank expre ssed concern that a prolonged  period of high inflation
would risk moving inflation expectations  above their current position at the mid-
point of the inflation target range.
The government released a new federa l budget plan on February 18, outlining
new spending initiatives for the next thr ee fiscal years.  Roughly 0.5 percent of
GDP in new spending, primar ily consisting of health care transfer payments to
provincial governments, wa s announced for each of the next three years.  Even
with the increase in spending, the federal budget is expected to remain slightly in
surplus.
IV-22
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Japan
Trade 86.1 73.9 89.3 103.7 77.3 69.7
Current account 118.7 112.3 105.3 105.4 102.1 100.6
Euro area
Trade190.1 128.0 106.2 115.7 90.3 n.a.
Current account111.8 99.4 88.8 123.8 99.1 n.a.
Germany
Trade 108.6 136.9 125.7 132.2 128.4 131.3Current account
143.7 42.6 n.a. 101.6 n.a. n.a.
France
Trade 1.3 1.9 1.8 .8 2.5 1.2Current account 4.5 4.3 5.0 7.0 7.9 n.a.
Italy
Trade 11.2 8.1 7.2 6.1 7.9 n.a.Current account
1-16.0 12.1 -16.2 -17.8 -22.9 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -38.1 -55.1 -68.3 -79.4 -57.9 -64.4Current Account -21.1 -13.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 34.4 35.0 34.3 33.2 31.4 38.3Current Account 11.2 10.8 8.4 ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-23
IV-24
IV-25
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Across the developing countries modest gr owth appears to be the rule, with the
notable exception of Venezuela where a political crisis is taking its toll.  Therunup in oil prices is contributing to high er inflation in most countries, and trade
balances are worsening for the oil importers.
In Mexico , output decelerated further in the fourth quarter, in line with weakness
in U.S. industrial producti on.  Preliminary GDP data a nd revisions to previous
quarters now indicate that growth slowed  from over 7 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the
second quarter to ½ percent in the fourth quarter.  Indicators available so far this
year have been mixed; exports surged mo re than 3 percent (s.a.) in January,
hinting at a revival of external dema nd, but business confidence, which has been
falling since December, declined sharply in February.  With exports improving
and imports roughly flat, the trade defi cit narrowed significantly in January.
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1-1.5 2.1 1.2 .6 ... ... ...
Overall economic activity -.1 .9 .2 .5 .3 n.a. n.a.Industrial production -3.3 -.1 -.7 -.3 -.2 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
22.5 2.7 2.9 2.6 2.5 2.6 n.a.
Consumer prices3 4.4 5.7 5.2 5.3 5.7 5.2 5.5
Trade balance4-10.0 -8.0 -8.4 -6.1 -5.9 -.9 n.a.
Imports4168.4 168.7 170.4 168.6 169.1 169.7 n.a.
Exports4158.4 160.7  162.0 162.5 163.2 168.8 n.a.
Current account5-18.0 -14.0 -12.5 -18.9 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
IV-26
In early February, the Bank of Mexico  implemented anothe r round of monetary
policy tightening, the fourth such move  since the beginning of September. 
Nonetheless, twelve-month inflation has continued to hover around 5½ percent
in recent months, and inflation exp ectations for end-2003 are still running
slightly above the upper bound of the 2-4 percent target range for this year.
In late February, Mexico became the fi rst major emerging market country to
issue a global bond in New York with  collective action clauses (CACs) , which
are aimed at facilitating debt restructuring in the event of default.  The$1 billion, twelve-year bond issue had a spread of 310 basis points over
comparable U.S. Treasuries.  The ma rket appears to have received the bond
well, and it is difficult to isolate the com ponent of the spread (if any) that may be
due to the inclusion of CACs.  Th e U.S. Treasury and the G-7 welcomed
Mexico's action.
In Brazil , recent output growth has been surprisingly strong at 2.9 percent in the
fourth quarter and 3.4 percent for the year as a whole.  Last year’s increase was
partly a rebound from Brazil’s domestic elect ricity crisis in 2001, but a sizeable
rise in net exports also played an im portant role.  The jump in net exports
appears to reflect not just weak  domestic demand but also gains in
competitiveness from the currency’s sizeab le real depreciation in recent years.
The improved trade balance ha s resulted in a significant narrowing of the current
account deficit from 4.5 percent of GDP in 2001 to 2 percent of GDP in 2002. 
Persistently high inflati on has continued to dominate policy concerns.  Twelve-
month consumer price inflation in Fe bruary was 14.6 percen t, well above the
8.5 percent upper bound of the government’s inflation target range.  Moreover,
measures of the average ex pected inflation rate fo r 2003 surpassed 12 percent in
early March.  In mid-February, the centr al bank raised the benchmark policy rate
100 basis points to 26.5 percent, following  a 50 basis point increase in January. 
The central bank also raised the rese rve requirement on demand deposits from
45 percent to 60 percent.  Market reaction was cautiously positive to the upwardrevision in the government’s 2003 target  for the primary fiscal surplus from
3.75 percent to 4.25 percent of GDP. 
IV-27
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1-.7 3.4 3.7 2.9 ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.6 2.4 -.3 2.2 -1.8 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
26.2 n.a. 8.1 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices37.7 12.5 7.6 10.6 12.5 14.6 n.a.
Trade balance42.6 13.1 19.0 23.9 20.6 17.0 15.4
Current account5-23.2 -7.6 4.1 -1.4 -1.3 1.9 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  “Open” unemployment rate.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , recent data releases provide further evidence of recovery. 
Industrial production was up almost 1 percent in Ja nuary and consumer and
business confidence indicators also conti nued to recuperate.  Monthly inflation
in February was 0.4 percent, bringing the year-over-year increase to 36 percent,
but continued to be limited by  the suppression of some prices as well as by the
low level of activity.
On March 5, the Supreme Court announ ced a precedent-setting decision that
calls into question the constitutionality of  the government’s conversion to pesos
of $9 billion in dollar-denominated bank de posits early last year.  Because the
Supreme Court's ruling did not apply to  the dollar-denominated bank loans that
were converted into pesos last year, the ruling may potentially deal yet another
blow to the Argentine banking system.  EMBI+ spreads rose sharply over the
month of February, as expect ations of the ruling mounted. 
Political attention has been focused on the upcoming presidential elections. 
Infighting within the ruling Peronist party prompted the cancellation of theparty’s primary.  Currently the presidentia l election is scheduled to be held on
April 27, followed by runoff elections, if necessary.  The next administration is
scheduled to take office on May 25.
IV-28
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1 -10.3 n.a. 1.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -5.2 -8.4 .5 2.9 3.4 .7 n.a.Unemployment rate
217.4 19.7 n.a. 17.8 ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -1.4 41.0 35.9 40.4 41.0 39.7 36.2
Trade balance47.5 16.4 17.0 17.6 15.4 19.5 n.a.
Current account5-4.4 n.a. 9.9 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data are released for May and October only.  Figures for Q4 reflect data
for October.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
The economic and political situation in Venezuela  remains grim.  Output
plunged in the fourth quarter and infla tion has soared so far this year.  A
nationwide strike, which began in early D ecember, had petered out in all but the
oil sector by February.  In the oil s ector, President Chavez has fired roughly
40 percent of the workforce, including most of the strikers.  Oil production is
gradually ramping up but is still well below pre-strike levels.  Market pressuresprompted the government to suspend fo reign exchange trading for two weeks
beginning in late January.  In early Fe bruary, the government announced a fixed
exchange rate system and significant exchange and price controls.  The newexchange system is still not fully operational, but is expected to limit severelythe ability of businesses and individuals  to gain access to foreign currency. 
Output in non-oil industries remains de pressed, reflecting c ontinued disruptions
in the supply chain (exacerbated by th e inability to import vital intermediate
goods), uncertainty surrounding the extens ive exchange and price controls, and
unabated political tensions.  
IV-29
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1 .9 16.7 19.2 -41.3 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.3 n.a. 16.5 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices312.3 31.2 24.8 30.6 31.2 33.8 38.7
Non-oil trade balance4-12.2 -7.4 -5.5 -5.5 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance49.3 13.9 16.7 14.8 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account53.9 7.6 15.1 8.3 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Recent indicators for Korea  are mixed.  Industrial pr oduction rose in December
before falling back in January.  Althoug h difficulties in seasonal adjustment for
the lunar holidays may play some role in  this pattern, after smoothing through
the two months, there is still some sign of a moderation in output growth.  So farin the first quarter, indicators of consumer and inve stment demand have
remained near recent lows and data on sales are on the weak side.  Consumerprice inflation neared 4 percent in Febr uary, reflecting the runup in fuel prices,
and producer prices have climbed si gnificantly more.  The current account
turned to deficit in January and Februa ry impacted by the greater value of oil
imports and travel expenses abroad.  However, exports, especially for
electronics, jumped in January.  Presid ent Roh Moo-hyun was inaugurated in the
last week of February and his appoin tments so far have suggested no major
break from the economic policies of the la st administration.  Korean financial
indicators have softened somewhat sin ce the last Greenbook, as tensions in Iraq
and North Korea have intensified.
IV-30
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP14.4 n.a. 5.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.0 7.4 .7 2.7 1.3 -1.1 n.a.Unemployment rate
23.8 3.1 3.1 3.0 3.0 3.1 n.a.
Consumer prices33.2 3.8 2.5 3.4 3.8 3.8 3.9
Trade balance413.5 14.2 10.9 15.5 4.3 21.4 n.a.
Current account58.2 6.1 3.7 7.9 -7.8 -4.2 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Economic conditions in the ASEAN region have remained weak with fourth-
quarter real GDP growth generally lack luster.  Output declined sharply in
Indonesia, and the rate of growth slowed  considerably in Malaysia.  In both
countries, the declines may be oversta ted due to seasonal adjustment issues
surrounding the Ramadan holiday.  Output was basically flat in Singapore over
the fourth quarter while, in the Philippine s, strong performance in the agriculture
sector supported a surge in growth.  I ndustrial production figures for January are
mixed, with output falling in  Malaysia but rising in  Singapore and Thailand. 
High-tech production helped boost Singa pore’s output but has shown signs of
weakness in the other ASEAN econo mies.  Higher commodity prices
contributed to a widening of trade surp luses throughout the region.  Despite the
climb in oil prices, inflation in the region remained moderate, with twelve-month inflation in Indonesia moving into single-digits for the first time in nearlytwo years.
IV-31
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 1.7 3.8 4.6 -9.4 ... ... ...
Malaysia -.6 5.5 7.2 2.6 ... ... ...Philippines 3.9 5.8 -.4 12.7 ... ... ...Singapore -6.0 3.0 -6.6 .4 ... ... ...Thailand 2.3 n.a. 4.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia3.7 -1.1 -1.2 1.4 2.2 -1.8 n.a.
Malaysia -4.1 4.1 3.0 -1.0 -.8 -.8 -2.9Philippines -5.7 -6.0 -3.2 2.7 3.1 -2.4 n.a.Singapore -11.6 8.3 -4.5 -2.1 -4.5 7.9 6.2Thailand 1.3 8.4 3.2 2.2 1.5 .4 1.7
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Indonesia 25.4 25.8 24.7 23.5 20.8 23.9 27.1
Malaysia 14.2 13.5 12.8 14.3 17.0 11.4 24.1Philippines 2.6 1.6 .2 .8 -1.5 3.4 n.a.Singapore 5.8 8.7 12.0 10.7 15.3 13.0 30.9Thailand 2.5 3.5 2.7 4.0 4.9 2.6 5.9
n.a.  Not available.
IV-32
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20011200212002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Indonesia 12.5 10.0 10.4 10.3 10.0 8.7 7.3
Malaysia 1.2 1.7 2.1 1.8 1.7 1.7 n.a.Philippines 4.1 2.6 2.8 2.6 2.6 2.7 3.1Singapore -.6 .4 -.4 .1 .4 .9 n.a.Thailand .8 1.6 .3 1.4 1.6 2.2 1.9
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available
Chinese authorities announced that real GDP  rose 8 percent over the four
quarters ended 2002:Q4.  Output was boosted by strong exports, private
investment, and government ex penditure.  Over the first two months of this year,
Chinese industrial producti on continued to increase rapidly on a twelve-month
basis.  China recorded trade deficits in both January and February, its first
deficits in over five years.  Imports were  up sharply due to rising oil prices and
further tariff reductions stemming fro m China’s WTO accession.  Exports have
increased only modestly.  Higher energy  prices in January lifted the consumer
price index to its year ago level, putting an end, at least temporarily, to Chinese
deflation. 
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP17.5 8.0 7.5 6.8 ... ... ...
Industrial production28.9 11.8 13.1 14.5 14.9 14.8 19.8
Consumer prices2-.3 -.4 -.8 -.6 -.4 .0 n.a.
Trade balance323.1 30.3 14.3 45.6 93.7 -29.8 -6.7
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
IV-33
In Hong Kong , both exports and imports rose more than 20 percent in January
from a year earlier.  The increases appear  to reflect trade with China.  The
January unemployment rate remained near the highs reached last year.  The paceof consumer price deflation is abating, reflecting recent increases in oil prices aswell as reductions in gove rnment housing subsidies.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Real GDP1-1.4 n.a. 10.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.9 7.3 7.4 7.2 7.1 7.2 7.2
Consumer prices3-3.5 -1.6 -3.5 -2.9 -3.6 -1.6 -1.7
Trade balance4-11.4 -7.7 -10.1 -10.2 -10.9 -9.8 -8.5
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Real GDP in Taiwan  grew 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter.  Much of the gain
was due to surging exports to China.  Industrial production declined in January,
and production in the country’s high-t ech sector, which has been falling
consistently since the middle of last  year, has not shown any significant
improvement.  Consumer price inflati on turned positive in December, largely
due to rising oil prices.  The trade bala nce for February posted a large surplus as
an export contraction in January was more  than reversed, and the oil-related rise
in imports moderated.
IV-34
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1-1.8 4.1 3.0 3.7 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.6 5.2 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.2 n.a.
Industrial production -7.3 6.4 .1 1.1 1.3 -.7 n.a.Consumer prices
3-1.7 .8 -.2 -.5 .8 n.a. n.a.
Trade balance415.6 18.0 15.0 19.5 15.8 .6 22.0
Current account517.9 25.7 20.1 30.9 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.