Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 6/05/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                              September 18, 2002
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                September 18, 2002
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developm ents
Overview 
The data that have become ava ilable since the Aug ust Greenbook show 
significant crosscurrents in the econom y. The continuing  boost from larg e 
incentives pushed motor vehicle sales ev en hig her in Aug ust, and consumer 
spending  on other g oods also posted solid g ains in J uly and Aug ust. Housing 
starts remained at a hig h level throug h July. Shipments of nondefense capital 
goods rose briskly  in July, althoug h anec dotal reports have not been as upbeat as 
the recent  data. In cont rast to the spendi ng data, readi ngs on the labor m arket 
suggest that conditions remained tepi d in Aug ust, and industrial production 
edged down. Meanwhile, core inflation stay ed low during  the summer. 
Labor Mark et 
The labor market has yet to g ain sig nificant forward momentum. In Aug ust, 
private nonfarm pay rolls were flat; aggregate hours, which recovered only 
partially  from J uly’s larg e decline, rema ined below the second-quarter averag e. 
The unemploy ment rate moved down 0.2 percentag e point, to 5.7 percent in 
August—a decl ine that does not  accord w ith other inform ation we have recei ved 
recently  on labor market conditions. Indeed, initial claims for unemploy ment 
insurance have risen in the past few weeks, and t he rece nt level of claims 
suggests that employ ment g rowth pr obably  remained quite weak in early 
September. 
Manufacturing  employ ment declined 68,000 in Aug ust—the larg est drop in this 
category since t he wi nter. However, that drop may  oversta te the weakness in 
factory  hiring  because employ ment in  the help-supply  sector, which provides 
many  of its workers to manufacturing  firms, rose 51,000. Employ ment in retail 
trade also declined last month, by  55,000. Services outside of help supply  added 
49,000 jobs, after making  similar g ains in  the previous several months, and 
construction posted its larg est employ ment advance in more than a y ear. 
Nonfarm pay roll employ ment was also boosted by  the addition of 41,000 jobs in 
federal and in state and local g overnme nt. Of the new federal jobs, 16,000 were 
airport security jobs c reated by the Transpor tation Se curity Administr ation.1 
A 0.3 percent g ain in ag gregate hours of production or nonsupervisory  workers 
in Aug ust only  partly  reversed the 0.7 percent drop in J uly. Averag e weekly 
hours ticked up 0.1 hour, but the workweek of 34.1 hours stands below its level 
in the  spring. 
1. Eventually, all airp ort secu rity workers w ill be federal em ployees; attain ing that goal 
entails a sh ift of employees from the private to  the public secto r. However, in any given month, 
an increas e in federal airport s ecurity employment may not be com pletely  offset by  a decreas e in 
private employment. In August , employment in the detective, guard, and armored car services 
industry (which includes private-sector airport  security workers) decl ined 9,000. 
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
The household survey  showed the unemp loyment rate declining  0.2 percentag e 
point in Aug ust to 5.7 percent. A broader measure of joblessness, which 
includes individuals who are out of the labor force but want a job as well as 
those who are unemploy ed, also fell a bit in Aug ust.2 The unemploy ment rate is 
little chang ed from its level in Decem ber 2001, even thoug h nonfarm pay roll 
employ ment has declined, on balance, this y ear. We believe that this unusual 
combination m ay have occurred because som e workers who were pul led into the 
work force during  the late 1990s by  strong demand and tig ht labor markets may 
have formed only  a marg inal attachment to the labor force, and therefore did not 
report themselves as unemploy ed after losing  their jobs, but instead moved 
directly  out of the labor force. Indee d, the labor force par ticipation r ate has 
fallen from 66.8 percent to 66.6 percen t since December of last y ear. 
Moreover, the reported decline in the  unemploy ment rate is not c onsiste nt with 
the weakness sug gested by  many  other la bor market indicator s. For ex ample, 
the four-week moving  average of initia l claims f or unemploy ment insur ance has 
moved up 20,000 since the Aug ust survey  week, to 410,000—a level consistent 
with little , if any, net increase in employment in Se ptember. The four-week 
moving  averag e of insured unemploy ment stood at 3.54 million in the week 
ended Aug ust 31, up 20,000 from the Aug ust survey  week. The ex haustion rate 
(the number of individuals who ex hauste d their benefits without finding  a job, 
expressed as a share of t he individuals who beg an recei ving unem ployment 
benefits six  months earlier) increased to  47.2 percent in J uly (seasonally  adjusted 
by the F RB staff), a level similar to the peak in 1993. 
Layoff announcements edg ed up in Aug ust, reversing  their J uly decline, and 
participants in the Manpower Survey  repor ted no chang e in their hiring  plans in 
the fourth quarter. However, res pondents to the National F ederation of 
Independent B usinesses (NFI B) surv ey became more upbeat, reporting  the 
highest level of net hiring  expectati ons since Aug ust 2001. Consumers’ views 
of the labor market also appear to be mixed. In the Conference Board’s Aug ust 
survey , the proportion of households repor ting jobs plentiful ticked down for the 
third month in a row, to its lowest leve l in this business cy cle. The proportion of 
August respondents finding  jobs hard to g et was unchang ed from J uly, 
remaining  at the hig hest level in this  cycle. In addition, these respondents 
reported slig htly lower employ ment ex pecta tions in Aug ust than in J uly. On the 
other hand, respondents to the preliminar y Michig an survey  for September 
report ed improved ex pectations fol lowing the recent  lows of J uly and Aug ust. 
2. W e generally place m ore weight on the data f rom the establis hment survey, which are 
gleaned from com pany records , than on the data f rom the household s urvey, which are bas ed on 
self-reporting by individuals. According to the BLS, the standard error of  the one-month change 
in the unemployment rate is 0 .1 percentage point. 
II-6
II-7
We now estimate that second-quarter  productivity  growth in the nonfarm 
business sector was 1.7 percent at an a nnual rate, a bit faster than the B LS 
estimated in its preliminary  release. Over the four quarters ended in 2002:Q2, 
productivity  is estimated to have advanced 4.9 percent, following  a 0.2 percent 
rise over the preceding  four-quarter peri od. Output per hour in the nonfinancial 
corporate sector is estimated to have incr eased at an annual rate of 5.0 percent in 
the second quarter. Over the four qua rters ended in 2002:Q2, this measure of 
productivity  advanced 6.0 percent, up fro m the 0.4 percent rise posted in the 
previous four quarters. 
Labor  Out put per Hour
(Percent chang e from  preceding  period at com pound annual rate;
based on seasonally  adjusted data)
Sector 19991 20001 20011 2001 2002 
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 
Nonfarm  businesses 
All persons2 3.0 2.1 1.9 2.1 7.3 8.6 1.73 
All em ployees 2.4 1.7 2.0 2.0 7.6 7.3 1.63 
Nonfinancial corporations4 1.8 1.8 3.3 3.2 10.8 5.1 5.0 
1. Change is from fourth quarter of  the precedin g year to f ourth quarter of  the year shown. 
2. Includes non-employees (p ublished definition). 
3. Staf f estimates. 
4. The nonfinancial corporate s ector con sists of all co rporations doing business in the Un ited 
States  with the exception  of banks, stock and com modity  brok ers, and finance an d insurance 
companies. The sector accou nts for abou t two-thirds of business employment. 
Indust rial P roduc tion 
Output in the industrial sector declin ed 0.3 percent in Aug ust, following  an 
upward revised g ain of 0.4 percent in J uly. Motor vehicle assemblies decreased 
last month, and electricity generation fell back after a heat-related run-up in J uly. 
Manufacturing  production ex cluding  moto r vehicles was flat for a second 
month, aft er sizable increases i n the first half of the y ear. The factory  operating 
rate slipped to 74.4 percent in Aug ust, 1-1/2 percentag e points above its recent 
low in December 2001, but still 6-1/2 pe rcentag e points below its 1967 to 2001 
averag e. 
The Aug ust decline in motor vehicle a ssemblies directly  shaved 0.1 percent off 
total I P. Fourth-quarter  schedules call for producti on at an annual rate of 
12.5 million units—hig h by historical standards but still 1/2 million units lower 
than thir d-quarter schedules. If realized, the  resulting  decline in the  value-added 
of the motor vehicle and parts industry would directly  reduce g rowth of total 
II-8
II-9
industrial output in the fourth quarter by  around 3/4 percentag e point at an 
annual rate. 
Output in the hig h-tech sector rose 1.6 pe rcent in Aug ust after a small increase in 
July. Semiconductor producti on was boosted in Aug ust by  sharp g ains in the 
production of semiconductors  other than microprocessors (MPUs). The 
Semiconductor I ndustry  Associ ation attributes the non- MPU streng th to demand 
for consumer products such as DVD play ers, video g ames, a nd dig ital cameras. 
The production of MP Us has lag ged behind the output of other chips because of 
relatively weak demand from c ompute r manufacturers: U.S. computer 
production increased in Aug ust for the first time since March, thoug h by only  a 
modest 0.8 percent. Intel, which make s about 80 percent of the MPUs produced 
worldwide, recent ly marked down i ts forecast  for t hird-quart er revenue a t ouch 
and noted that the outlook for pers onal computers and notebooks is a little 
weaker than it had previously  anticipated. Last month’s CIO Magazine  survey 
of information officers showed that buy ing plans for computer hardware and 
related items have been scaled back sin ce the previous survey  in July, but they 
are still c onsiste nt with ne ar-term inc reases in the  level of outla ys. The 
production of communications equipment fell 1.1 percent in Aug ust after a 
4.4 percent plung e in J uly. Despite persistent production cuts over the past two 
years, st ocks of com munications equi pment remained hi gh relative to the recent 
pace of sal es. 
Aircraft production contracted  1.4 percent in Aug ust be cause of another decline 
in the output of commercial aircraft. Since its recent peak in November 2000, 
the production of commercial aircraft has been cut in half.      
      
  . Beyond that cut, however, the information 
provided by  the company  suggests that prospective declines in production will 
be relatively small. 
Production chang es across the rest of the industrial sector have been mix ed. The 
output of business equipment other th an transportation and hig h-tech bounced 
back from a decrease in J uly, and the output of constructi on supplies moved up. 
However, the production of business supplies and industrial ma terials declined. 
The output of consumer g oods aside fro m motor vehicles and hig h-tech dropped 
0.3 percent in Aug ust, pushed down by  a drop in the production of furniture and 
appliances and by  a decrease in the out put of nondurables. Data from the staff’s 
flow-of-g oods sy stem imply  that, relative to sales, stocks of consumer g oods 
excluding  motor vehicles had already moved down from uncomfortable levels, 
suggesting  that the recent softness in consumer g oods production has not 
stemmed from  an invent ory overhang . More broadl y, accordi ng to the flow-of-
goods 
II-10
II-11
system, inventories do not appear to be  high, and indeed, purchasing  manag ers 
continue to report that their cu stomers’ inventories are too low. 
Indicators of near-term manufacturing  activ ity have been mix ed. Real adjusted 
durable g oods orders surg ed in J uly and pushed up the three-month averag e by 
1.9 percent. In contrast, the new orde rs index  from the I nstitute for Supply 
Manag ement slipped a little further in Aug ust to 49.7, after having  declined 
10 percentag e points in J uly. Several reg ional diffusi on index es of orders also 
stepped down over the summer. 
New  Orders for Du rable Good s 
(Percent chang e from  preceding  period ex cept as noted; seasonally  adjusted) 
Com ponent Share, 
2001: 
H1 
(percent) 2002 
Q1 Q2 May June July 
Total orders 100.0 1.5 -.4 .4 -4.5 9.2 
Adjusted orders1 71.0 2.6 .5 -.2 -4.9 10.8 
Com puters -1.4 -5.0 3.5 -9.7 13.8 
Com munication equipm ent 3.0 6.3 -3.3 -2.8 -18.2 11.6 
Other capital g oods 23.0 .8 2.4 .5 -4.1 7.7 
Other2 37.0 3.9 .3 -.8 -3.7 12.3 
MEMO 
Real adj usted orders  . . . 3.0 .9 -.2 -4.8 11.2 
Excluding  high tech  . . . 2.9 .8 -.4 -5.0 11.4 4.0 
1. Orders excluding defense capi tal goods , nondefense aircraf t, and motor vehicle part s. 
2. Primary metals, most fabricated m etals, most stone, clay , and glass produ cts, 
household appl iances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods . 
. . . Not applicable. 
Motor Veh icles 
Sales of lig ht vehicles have been ex tremely  strong  during  the past two months. 
Automakers broug ht back z ero percen t financing  and boosted cash incentives in 
early  July; light vehicle sales jumped 1.8 million units that month to an annual 
rate of 18.1 million units. In Aug ust, sa les rose further to an 18.6 million unit 
pace. Althoug h most of the increase in July and Aug ust wa s in retail sales to 
consumers, fleet sales to businesse s also moved up over this period. 
Industry  sources indicated confidentially  earlier this month that they  were 
expecting  light vehicle sales in Se ptember of about 17-1/2 million units—down 
II-12
II-13
a little  from the  Aug ust le vel owing , in pa rt, to some  trimming  of incentive 
programs.5 In early  September, GM announ ced new incentives that were less 
generous on balance than those availabl e in J uly and Aug ust, but the company 
did include z ero-rate financing  on 36- month loans for the purchase of 2003 
model-y ear vehicles. In response, Ford and Chry sler announced prog rams 
simila r to GM’ s.6 
The current round of incentives provides an offset to announced price increases 
for new model-y ear vehicles. Chry sler and F ord have announced that averag e 
prices for their 2003 vehicles w ill be up 0.5 percent and 0.4 percent, 
respectively , relative to comp arably  equipped 2002 vehicles.7 GM has not 
announced an averag e figure. Consumer s apparently  have not noticed any 
deterioration in the  pricing environme nt: Car-buying attitude s impr oved in the 
prelimina ry September Michigan Sur vey, to the  highest level sinc e last 
Decem ber. 
With sales of lig ht vehicles running  ahead  of manufacturers’ ex pectations in J uly 
and Aug ust, inventories of lig ht vehicles  are apparently  below desired levels. 
Inventories declined 130,000 units in  Aug ust to 2.5 million, while supply 
dropped to about 51 day s when evaluated at last month’s elevated sales pace, 
and to about 54 day s when evaluated at the averag e sales pace over the past 
twelve months; both fig ures are well below the industry  target of around 
63 day s. Nevertheless, ma nufacturers have scheduled a step-down in production 
to an annual rate of 12.5 million units in  September and a continuation at that 
level in the fourth quarter. These sc hedules sug gest that producers anticipate 
some  softening in sa les in c oming  months. 
Domestic fourth-quarter pr oduction could be disrupted severely  if the Canadian 
Auto W orkers (CAW ) union strikes F ord or Chry sler. On September 17, the 
CAW reached a t entative ag reem ent on a new cont ract with GM, and t he uni on 
will use  this c ontract as the pattern agreement for upcoming  negotiations with 
the 
5. The recent histo ry of these p rojectio ns suggests that the ear ly-month forecasts have a 
standard error of 1 million units. 
6. GM’s prev ious prog ram expired on  September 3. In its new prog ram, consumers may 
receiv e zero percen t financing for up to th ree y ears on model y ear 2002 or 2003 cars ; redu ced-
rate f inancing is available f or longer maturities . Cash rebates  of up to $1,500 are als o available 
in lieu of redu ced-rate financing. In the prog ram that just expired, on ly model-year 2002 
vehicles were elig ible, bu t zero percen t financing was available f or up to five years, and cas h 
rebat es of up to $5,000 w ere offered. GM’s prog ram expires on October 31, w hile Ford’s and 
Chrysler’s current prog rams expire on  September 30. 
7. These figures translate into an average increas e of abou t $125 per v ehicle for Chrysler 
and $120 f or Ford. 
II-14
II-15
Produc tion of D omestic Autos and Tr ucks 
(Millions of units at an annual rate except as noted; FR B seasonal basis) 
Item 2002 2002 
Q1 Q2 Q31 June July Aug. Sept.1 
U.S. production 12.2 12.4 12.9 12.7 13.2 12.9 12.5 
Autos  5.2  5.2  5.2  5.3  5.4  5.1  5.2 
Trucks  7.0  7.2  7.6  7.4  7.8  7.8  7.3 
Total day s’ supply2 57.5 62.7  n.a. 63.1 55.7 50.6  n.a. 
Inventories3 2.44  2.68  n.a.  2.68  2.66 2.53  n.a. 
Note. C omponents may not sum to totals  becau se of rounding. 
1. Production  rates  reflect W ard’s Communication s’ lates t estimates for Q3 an d Septem ber. 
2. Qu arterly  average calcu lated u sing end-of-period s tocks and average reported s ales. 
3. En d-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy trucks (classes 3-8). 
n.a. Not av ailable. 
other automakers. Job security  is th e most important issue, and neg otiations 
with F ord may  prove difficult; F ord ha s announced plans to shut an Ontario 
truck plant and to lay  off between 1,000 and 1,500 workers (roug hly 10 percent 
of Ford’s unioniz ed workforce in Canada ). A strike ag ainst F ord in Canada 
would quickly  shut down the company ’s assembly  and pa rts plants in the  Unite d 
States. The last strike by  the CA W was in 1996, when the union clashed with 
GM over outsourcing . 
Consum er Spending 
Consumer spending  on g oods aside from mo tor vehicles appears to be increasing 
at a moderat e pace i n the third quart er. In Aug ust, nom inal retail sales in the so-
called control categ ory of stores, which excludes sal es at motor vehi cle deal ers 
and building  supply  outlets, rose 0.3 percent.8 Spending  moved up noticeably  at 
furniture and home furnishing  stores a nd at g eneral mercha ndise outlets but 
declined at  electronic and appl iance st ores and at  clothing and accessory  outlets. 
We estimate that real PCE for the cont rol items advanced 0.2 percent in Aug ust 
after slightly larger increases i n the precedi ng two months. 
Outlay s on services rose 0.3 percent in J uly (the most recent available data); the 
gain wa s led by a surge in estimated expenditur es on br okerage and inve stme nt 
8. The increas e in nominal retail control was revised dow n 0.2 percen tage point in both 
June and July. 
II-16
II-17
counseling . However, the jump in br okerag e spending  was likely  reversed in 
August g iven that month’s drop in trad ing volumes. Outlay s on energ y services 
were little  changed in J uly, and we ather data for Aug ust sug gest tha t electricity 
demand declined last month. 
Real disposable personal income was a bout unchang ed in J uly, and the latest 
employ ment report points to little g ain in the wag e and salary  component of 
household income for Aug ust. However, g ains in real disposable income over a 
longer period remain siz able; they  have  been boosted in part by  the decline in 
income tax payments associated with la st year’s tax legislation a nd a reduction 
in capital gains realizations owing  to the  weak stoc k ma rket. The twelve-month 
chang e in real  DPI in July was 4 percent . 
With income roug hly unchang ed in J uly, the considerable rise in spending  led to 
a 0.8 percentag e point decline in the saving  rate, to 3.4 percent. Still, the saving 
rate remains near t he hi gh end of t he rang e seen i n the past  three y ears, a pat tern 
consistent with the sharp decline in hous ehold wealth. In the second quarter, the 
ratio of household net worth to disposable personal income fell to its lowest 
level since 1996, and the stock market’s decline since the end of the second 
quarter has likely  further reduced this ratio. 
Both the  Michigan Sur vey Research Center’s inde x of consume r sentime nt and 
the Conference B oard’s index  of consumer  expectations edg ed down in Aug ust, 
and the Michig an index  ticked down furthe r in early  September. Both measures 
are now cl ose to the levels seen l ast Decem ber and cl ose to their averag es over 
the past  twenty years. 
Housing Mark et 
Housing  activity  remained robust in ear ly summer, thoug h a bit less so than 
during  the spring . In the sing le-family  sector, the pace of starts declined about 
2-1/4 percent in J uly to an annual ra te of 1.32 million units. Issuance of permits 
to build ne w sing le-family home s—adjuste d for starts tha t occurred in a reas 
where permits are not required—was only a touch below the pace of starts; the 
permits f igure is consiste nt with little  change in sta rts for the remainder of the 
current quarter. In the multifamily  sector , new homes were started at an annual 
rate of 328,000 units in J uly, a pace just a bit below the averag e recorded during 
the past y ear and a half. 
Mortg age rates have fallen during  the past several months, wi th the averag e rate 
on a thirty -year fix ed-rate mortg age standing  at 6.18 percent in mid-September, 
and the  average initia l rate on a  thirty-year adjusta ble-rate mortgage at 
4.32 percent. Consumers’ rating  of homebuy ing conditions in the Michig an 
Survey  and the Mortg age Bankers Associ ation’s index  of mortg age application 
volume bot h rem ained el evated in earl y September, a pattern sug gesting  that low 
II-18
II-19
II-20
II-21
mortg age rates have continued to support housing  activity  despite stag nant 
employ ment and declining  household wealth. 
Sales of new homes rose 6- 3/4 percent in J uly to an  annual rate of just over 
1.0 million units, a record hig h, and the inventory  of unsold homes remained 
low. Sales of ex isting  homes, as pub lished by  the National Association of 
Realtors (NAR), increased 4-1/2 percent in July to an annual rate of 5.33 million 
units; the g ain partly  offset J une’s 11 percent drop. However, this larg e swing 
mainly reflected NAR’ s seasonal adjustme nt procedures and is not apparent in 
the estimate produced with the B oard sta ff’s seasonal factors which, unlike those 
of the NAR , include an adj ustment for t he num ber of busi ness day s each m onth.9 
July’s sales pace—which was about the same using  either  set of seasonal 
factors—was bel ow the record hi ghs seen earl ier this year and back i n line wi th 
the averag e pace of t he past  four y ears. 
Althoug h house prices continued to move up throug h the second quarter, some 
indicators sug gest that the pace of i ncrease has sl owed recent ly. The four-
quarter rise in the median purchase pri ce of new homes was about 2 percent last 
quarter, down from the 9-3/4 percent in crease reg istered duri ng the previ ous 
year. A deceleration in prices also is evident using  the Census B ureau’s quality -
adjusted m easure—from  a 4-3/ 4 percent  gain during  the four quarters ending  in 
2001:Q2 to a 2-3/4 percent increase over the most recent four quarters. The 
repeat -sales index  for ex isting homes—which controls for some of the chang es 
in the composition of homes sold that can affect  the m edian pri ce—has al so 
decelerated about 2 percentag e points, to a 6-1/2 percent pace. In contrast, the 
median purchase price of ex isting  homes has shown no sig n of deceleration. It 
was up 7-1/2 percent last quarter fro m a year earl ier, com pared wi th a 
6-1/2 percent increase over the previous y ear. 
The repeat-sales pr ice index  has decelerated in most, but not all, metropolitan 
areas. The m ost dram atic chang e has been i n the San Franci sco Bay  area;  in San 
Francisco itself, prices increased almo st 15 percent in 2001 but have held about 
steady  in 2002. Many  other metropolitan areas (such as B oston and 
Minneapolis) have ex perienced a mild d eceleration in prices, but some areas 
(including  New York and W ashing ton) have not. 
Equipm ent and Soft ware 
On balance, business spending  on e quipment and software appears to be 
advancing  at a solid clip in the third quarter, buoy ed by  an increase in motor 
9. The NA R seasonal factor ex aggerated th e declin e in sales in June becau se it did n ot take 
accou nt of the fact th at June had five weekends instead of  the usual four. With fewer business 
days, one would expect f ewer house-purchase closings. 
II-22
II-23
vehicle purchases and a stabiliza tion in a ircraft expenditur es that followe d large 
declines earlier in the  year. Excluding  the vola tile transpor tation se ctor, 
however, out lays seem  to be ex pandi ng at a moderat e pace, as i n the first half of 
the y ear. Business output g rowth, rising  corporate cash flow, and the user cost 
of capital are likely  providing  some impet us to investment, but anecdotal reports 
suggest tha t firms are hesitant to r amp up c apital expenditur es substa ntially. 
Business spending  on aircraft looks poised to move up a bit in the third quarter, 
but such a move would reverse only  a sm all portion of the c onside rable decline 
recorded in the second quarter. The recen t low levels of ai rcraft ex penditures 
reflect the sizable drop i n air traffic owi ng to the recessi on and t he terrorist 
attacks, fact ors that are onl y now bei ng fully reflected in the purchase of new 
airplanes. 
Business demand for motor vehicles has fi rmed recently , but near-term prospects 
vary greatly by class of vehi cle. Fleet sales of l ight vehi cles increased i n each of 
the past three months, and the level of fl eet sales in Aug ust was the hig hest since 
March 2001. Sales of medium  and heavy  trucks increased in both J uly and 
August. For heavy  trucks, the recent pickup in sales reflects businesses’ desire 
to take delivery  in advance of new EPA re gulations for class 8 trucks that g o into 
effect  in Oct ober. Sales are l ikely to be m uch weaker i n the near fut ure, as net 
orders for heavy  trucks ha ve fallen sharply  since May .10 In contrast, orders for 
medium trucks (classe s 5 to 7) have g radually  move d hig her this y ear, and they 
rose ag ain in Aug ust. 
Nominal shipments of computing  equipment surg ed 13.9 percent in J uly (not at 
an annual rate) after a sharp decline in  the second quarter. However, several 
major computer manufacturers have reported that they are ex pecting fairly flat 
nominal sales for t he quart er as a whol e. This anecdot al evidence—al ong with 
the extreme vola tility of the shipme nt series—sug gests tha t the July gain is like ly 
to be  at least partially reversed in Aug ust and Se ptember. Still, with c ompute r 
prices apparently  falling  more rapidly  than in the second quarter, the available 
data suggest tha t real compute r expenditur es will pr obably pick up this qua rter. 
Software spending , which we estimate to have rise n at an annual rate of 
11.5 percent in the second quarter, tends to  move roug hly in line with hardware 
expendi tures and t hus seem s likely to increase ag ain in the current  quart er. 
10. The trucking industry remains in the doldrums. Consolidated Freig htways Corporation, 
the nation’s third-largest lo ng-distance freight hauler, filed for bankruptcy on September 3. 
Disruptions due to th e clos ing are expected to be s mall, accord ing to pres s reports , becau se of 
excess capacity  in the industry. 
II-24
II-25
In contrast, the near-term outlook for real spending  on communications
equipment continues to be g rim.  ments of communications equipment fell
3.2 percent in J uly after a larg e drop in  the second quarter.  ooking s increased
11.6 percent in J uly but are down mo re than 50 percent since mid-2000. 
Accordi ng to statements by manufact urers of communications equipment,
telecommunic ations se rvice provide rs are still sla shing  capital
expenditures—particularly  for equipment not used in their wireless seg ments. 
Apart  from  the high-tech and t ransport ation sectors, nominal shipments rose
2.2 percent in J uly after a 1.3 percent declin e in J une.  
above shipments for the first time sin ce early  last y ear, and the backlog  of
unfilled orders edg ed up.  of construction machinery  and of
measuring  and controlling  devices (a g rouping  that includes MRI s, volt meters,
air conditioning  controls, and watches) have been especia lly strong  of late.  
business spendi ng in these cat egories expanded at  a rapi d pace i n the second
quart er, and t he most recent  shipments data suggest ongoing gains.
Nonresidential Con struction  
A decline in nominal spending  for c onstruction of nonresidential building s in
July extended the downward trend that began in early  2001.   moved
lower in every  major categ ory except offi ce building s.  n the industrial sector,
outla ys Ship
B
The level of orders moved
Shipments 
Real
Spending
I
II-26
II-27
dropped 4-1/4 percent in J uly and now st and at the lowest level in twenty -five 
years. Spending  in the other comme rcial sector—whic h inc ludes retail and 
wholesale space—has dropped sharply  durin g the past several months after 
having  shown resilience throug h all of 2001 and part of 2002; J uly’s level was 
almost 15 pe rcent be low tha t of the first qua rter. In contrast, outla ys for utilitie s 
and other private constructi on rose about 8 percent in July after a 2-3/4 percent 
increase i n June.11 
Other indicators also sug gest that the de terioration of conditions in the office 
sector may  be easing  a bit. Althoug h vacancy  rates in this sector moved up 
again last quarter, from 15.4 percent to  15.6 percent, the increase was the 
smallest in almost two y ears. In addition, office property  values fell less on a 
year-over-y ear basis than they  have in a lmost a year. In cont rast, the weakeni ng 
in the industrial sector showed no sig ns of  abating  in the second quarter, with the 
vacancy  rate moving up si gnificantly further to nearl y 11 percent . Propert y 
values in the warehouse sector fell ag ain last quarter, but retail property  values 
were about unchang ed. 
The numbe r of natural gas drilling  rigs in ope ration r ose sharply through mid-
September, a gain mor e than offsetting the slight de cline in the  numbe r of 
petroleum rig s in operation. These data sug gest that spending  on the 
constr uction of  drilling  structures has increased so f ar this qua rter. 
Business In ventories 
The book value of manufacturing  and trade inventories ex cluding  motor vehicles 
increased at an annual rate of $28.6 billi on in J uly, the second straig ht monthly 
gain following  declines in every  month since F ebruary  2001. But gains in sales 
and shipments further drove down the invent ory-sales ratio in J uly to a very low 
level. 
Manufacturers’ inventories decreased at  an annual rate of $5.0 billion in book-
value terms in J uly after a drop of $12.8 billion in the second quarter. The 
decline resulte d from a  sizable liquida tion at producers of transportation 
equipment and l ikely reflected a l arge drawdown of inventories held in the early 
stage of processing  in the aircraft industr y. Excluding  the volatile aircraft sector, 
inventories rose in J uly as manufacturer s of chemicals, petroleum products, and 
rubber and plastics accumula ted inventories on a book-va lue basis—a g ain that 
perhaps partly  reflected hig her pr ices for inputs into those g oods. 
11. According to confidential d ata from the Cen sus Bureau, alm ost all o f July’s increase in 
spending in this secto r resu lted from a sharp rise in  outlays by electric p ower utilities. Spending 
in this subsector now stands at abou t the same level seen early last spring; we have no good 
explanation  for May ’s and June’s weak figures. 
II-28
II-29
A rise of $18.1 billion (annual rate) in th e book value of wholesale inventories 
(excluding  motor vehicles) in J uly followed a $7.7 billion pace of liquidation in 
the second quarter. The bulk of the accumulation reflected stockbuilding  at 
distributors of farm products, mach inery , and miscella neous nondurables—a 
categ ory that includes farm supplies, books , flowers, tobacco, and paint. Most 
other cat egories reg istered small inventory  chang es. 
Retailers (ex cluding  automotive dealers)  accrued inventory  stocks at an annual 
rate of $15.5 billion in J uly after having  built inventories at a $9.0 billion pace in 
the second quarter. An accumulation at  general merchandisers accounted for 
more than half of the J uly buildup. The ratio of inventor ies to sales ticked 
up—especially  at stores carry ing furn iture, electronics, and appliances—but 
remains at a fairly low le vel. 
Federal Govern ment 
The Federal budg et continues to deteriorate, albeit at a slower pace than earlier 
this y ear. A supplemental spending  bill for fiscal 2002 was enacted in Aug ust, 
but little prog ress has been made on appropriations for fiscal 2003. The 
Cong ressional B udget Office’s mid-y ear update of the budg et outlook indicated 
that the budg et will move back to bala nce over the nex t five y ears under the 
baseline assumption tha t no ne w spe nding  initia tives or tax cuts are enacted. 
Over the twelve months ending  in July, the budg et recorded a deficit of 
$192 billion, compared with a surplus of $227 billion over the previous twelve 
months. This swing  of more than $400 billion reflects the slowdown in 
economic activity , policy  actions, and an unusually sharp deterioration in 
personal  tax recei pts relative to incom e. 
Total receipts in J uly 2002 were 5 pe rcent above the y ear-earlier level. 
However, receipts had been held down in July 2001 by  the issuance of refund 
checks. Abst racting from  those ch ecks as wel l as from  calendar-rel ated 
variation, J uly receipts declined on a y ear-over-y ear basis, in part because of the 
lower withholding  schedules embodied in la st year’s tax  act. In recent months, 
withheld tax es have been a bit softer than we would have ex pected g iven the 
new tax law and the  BEA’s estimates for wages and sa laries. Net corporate 
income tax collections ove r the twelve months ending  in July were 32 percent 
below the ir level in the  previous twe lve months, compared with a 4 percent 
increase in economic profits shown in the NI PA data for the y ear ending 
2002:Q2 compared with the y ear ending 2001:Q2. This difference partly  reflects 
the partial ex pensing  provision and othe r tax law chang es enact ed in March. 
Daily  Treasury  data indicate that co rporate collections rebounded sharply  in 
September. 
Federal g overnment outlay s in July were  11 percent above thei r year-earlier level 
(adjuste d for regular shifts in pa yment timing ). Over the twelve months e nding 
in 
II-30
II-31
II-32
II-33
July, outla ys adjuste d for timing  shifts we re 7-1/2 pe rcent hig her than a year 
earlier, as noninterest outlay s rose more  than 10 percent—the fastest rate of 
increase in a decade. This increase has been propelled by  double-dig it gains in 
defense and nondefense discretionary spending  as well as by  surg ing 
expenditures for health prog rams including  Medicaid and Medicare. 
In Aug ust, President B ush sig ned into law a $24 billion supplemental 
appropriations bill for fiscal 2002. The bill included an additional $5 billion in 
budg et authority  that was conting ent upon the President ag reeing  to the 
emerg ency desig nation made by  the Cong ress; the  President did not a gree to this 
desig nation, preferring  to fund some of the affected programs out of reg ular 
fiscal 2003 appropriations. Prog ress on fiscal 2003 appropriations bills has been 
hampered by  the lack of a cong ressional budg et resolution and disag reement 
about the overall level of appropriations. Thus, the Cong ress likely  will need to 
enact a continuing  resolution to provide  temporary  spending  authority  for many 
programs when the fiscal y ear beg ins October 1. Indeed, as has been the case 
frequent ly in recent  years, t he appropri ations process m ay extend wel l into the 
fall. The possibility  of a lame-duck session a fter the elections ha s already been 
mentioned by  the Senate leadership. 
The Cong ressional B udget Office’s mid -year update of the budg et outlook 
indicated that the budg et will record a deficit of $157 billion in fiscal 2002 and a 
similar deficit in 2003 if no ne w spending  initiatives or tax  cuts are enacted. The 
baseline deficit projec tion includes the effects of the supplemental 
appropriations bill e nacted in Aug ust, but the  resulting  level of discretiona ry 
spending  for fiscal 2003 and bey ond is still a bit below the Administration’s 
request. The baseline budg et is projected  to move back into surplus by  2006. 
The CB O’s budg et projections were based on an economic forecast that 
envisioned the economy  growing  about 3 pe rcent on averag e during  the nex t five 
years and the unemploy ment rate falling to 5.2 percent (the CB O’s estimate of 
the NAI RU) by  2005. 
State an d Local Govern ments 
State and local g overnment employ ment  increased about 20,000 in both J uly and 
August. Employ ment at state unive rsities and colleges was flat, whe reas it 
averag ed an increase of 6,000 per mont h during  the same months in 2000 and 
2001, sug gesting  that these public instituti ons have felt the effects of state 
budg et cuts this summer. In contra st, hiring  was quite strong  at public 
elementary  and secondary  schools, proba bly because of continuing  enrollment 
increases and g reater availability  of teachers and support staff. Construction 
spending  rose 1-1/2 percen t (monthly  rate) in July. 
While most state budg ets have eroded over the past y ear, the fiscal condition of 
many cities has remained quite  strong. According to the  Nationa l League of 
II-34
II-35
Cities’ most recent annual survey , propert y tax collections ha ve held up well in 
recent y ears, and they  are ex pected to rise another 6 percent during  fiscal 2002.12 
Property  taxes are the mainstay  of mo st cities’ budg ets, accounting  for nearly 
30 pe rcent of cities’ own- source revenue. Howe ver, a fair numbe r of cities 
depend to a sig nificant ex tent on income  and sales tax es; these revenues cam e in 
below ex pectations at the end of cal endar 2001 and the beg inning  of 2002, and 
they were projected to increase only  about  1 percent for fiscal 2002 as a whole. 
As a resul t, the rise in overal l tax recei pts was proj ected to be si gnificantly 
smaller than in the previous fiscal  year. With general fund ex penditures 
expected to move up substantially , endi ng balances m easured as a share of 
expenditur es were projected to de cline a little  from the ir record hig h in f iscal 
2001. 
Prices 
Price inflation edg ed up in Aug ust, but th e averag e inflation rat e during the past 
several  months rem ained bel ow the pace seen l ast year. Throug h the Aug ust 
reading s, the twelve-month rate of incr ease in both the CPI  and the PCE price 
index  was about 3/4 percentag e point  less than its y ear-earlier reading .13 
Althoug h much of the past y ear’s slow down in inflation has occurred in the 
volatile food and energ y sectors, core inflation has eased as well. 
Consumer energ y prices rose 0.6 percen t in Aug ust, following  an increase of 
0.4 percent in J uly. In Aug ust, the price of  natural g as fell further, but prices for 
fuel oil, gasoline, and el ectricity increased. Much of t he rise in gasoline pri ces 
this summe r reflected the  pass-through of increases in crude oil pr ices from the ir 
mid-J une troug h; these increases now cumulate to about $5 per barrel. 
However, g asoline inventories are pl entiful, and from mid-J uly throug h mid-
September, refiners apparen tly have been forced to sque eze their margins rather 
than fully  pass along  the increases in crude oil cost. Althoug h the CPI  for 
natural gas has been declining  all summe r, spot prices have turned up a bit since 
mid- August as a surplus of  natural gas inve ntories diminishe d slig htly. The 
recent  erosi on of t his invent ory glut may reflect, in part , the prot racted droug ht 
along  the eastern seaboard and in some  western states, which has forced some 
utilitie s that typically depend on hy droelectric generation to tur n to hig her-cost 
coal and natural g as. 
Prices for consumer foods fell 0.1 percen t in Aug ust. Althoug h a droug ht this 
summer in many  agricultural reg ions ha s boosted crop prices considerably , it 
also 
12. T he Nation al League of Cities began collectin g city fiscal data in  the mid-1980s . The 
recen t survey was conducted in March  and April. For about 40 percent of cities, th e fiscal y ear 
corres ponds to th e calen dar y ear; f or another 40 percen t, the fiscal y ear en ds on June 30; am ong 
the rem aining 20 percent of cities, m ost end their fiscal y ear Sep tember 30. 
13. The PCE price index for August w ill be released on September 30; the statements in the 
text refer to estimates by the Board s taff based on published CPI and PPI dat a. 
II-36
II-37
has contributed to a selloff of livestock that has pushed down prices for meat and 
poultry . Over the twelve months ende d in Aug ust, consumer food prices rose 
1.2 percent; they  were up 3.1 percent in  the previous twelve-month period. 
Consumer prices for items other than  food and energ y rose 0.3 percent in 
August; on a twelve-month basis, core consumer prices were up 2.4 percent 
throug h Aug ust, compared with 2.7 percent in the preceding  twelve months. 
The deceleration in the core CP I has been most pronounced for g oods prices, 
which fell 0.7 percent in the twelve months  ended in Aug ust after an increase of 
0.1 percent in the preceding  year. By cont rast, prices of non-energ y services rose 
3.7 percent in the twelve months ended in  Aug ust, quite close to the 3.8 percent 
increase one y ear earl ier. 
On the basis of the B oard staff’s transl ation of published pr ice data, we estimate 
that the PCE price index  for items other than food and energ y rose 1.7 percent 
during  the twelve months ended in Au gust, a deceleration from the 2.0 percent 
gain in the previous y ear. The slow down in core PCE in flation was apparent 
both for commodities (which throug h Aug ust slowed 0.2 percentag e point 
relative to one y ear earlier) and for servi ces (which slowed 0.4 percentag e point). 
The decel eration in core P CE pri ces also is evident for t he m arket-based 
components of the index , which rose 1.4 percent in the twelve months ended in 
August versus an increase of 1.7 percen t the preceding  year, and for the part of 
core PCE f or whic h ma rket-based prices are not a vailable, whic h is e stimated to 
have risen 2.6 percent in the y ear e nded in Aug ust and 2.8 percent in the 
previous y ear. 
The B LS has beg un to publish a new inde x called the chained CPI  or C-CPI -U, 
whic h it c onstr ucts with a  so-called “superlative” aggregation f ormula. This 
new method of summariz ing the data on c onsumer prices for specific items takes 
account of chang es in the mix  of purchases by  consumers in response to chang es 
in relative prices.14 According  to this measure, prices rose 1.3 percent in the 
twelve months ended in Aug ust, compared with an increase of 2.1 percent in the 
preceding  year. Excluding  food and energ y, the chained CP I increased 
1.7 percent in the twelve months ende d in Aug ust, down 0.2 percentag e point 
from one  year earlier. These increases in the  chained core CPI are simila r in 
magnitude to the corresponding  increases in the core PCE price index , which 
suggests that a substantial part of th e difference bet ween t he PCE and offi cial 
CPI measures of i nflation in recent  years m ay have ari sen from  the fixed-wei ght 
character of the latter index . Althoug h the chained CPI  and the PCE price index 
14. By contrast, the official C PI uses a Laspeyres formula, which tends to ov erstate 
increas es in prices  by not factorin g in consumers’ moves to lower-cost item s when relativ e prices 
change. In the official in dex, the market-basket weights are n ow scheduled to be u pdated ev ery 
two years. The chained CPI is available only after 1999, an d it is not seasonally adjusted. 
II-38
II-39
show smaller increases over the past coupl e of y ears than does the official CPI , 
all three price measures show  similar-siz ed decelerations. 
Survey  measures of ex pected inflation show less decline than measures of actual 
inflation. According  to the Michig an su rvey for the first part of September, 
median one-y ear-ahead infla tion ex pectations were 2.6 percent; this fig ure puts 
the third-quarter estimate of  inflation ex pectations also at 2.6 percent, which is 
very close to the  reading for the third qua rter of last y ear. Longer-term inflation 
expectations a lso we re little  changed through the  summe r—with me dian five-to-
ten y ear ex pectations holding  between 2- 3/4 percent and 3 percent, a rang e that 
has prevailed for several y ears—but the preliminary  reading  for September 
ticked down below this rang e. 
Commodity  prices have moved up a little , on balance, since the last Greenbook, 
and prices for most commodities stand well above the lows that were established 
late last y ear. An Aug ust g ain of 0.4 percent in the PPI  for intermediate 
materials ex cluding  food and energ y broug ht the twelve-month chang e to 
0.4 percent, a noticeable pickup relative to the decline of 0.8 percent in the 
preceding  twelve-month period. Prices for core crude materials rose further in 
August; this series now has increased 9.2 percent over the past twelve months 
and has t hus reversed t he previ ous y ear’s decline of m ore than 9 percent . Recent 
increases in pr ices for most me tals and crude oil have helped reverse some of the 
July decline in the Journal of Commerce  industrial price index . The CRB 
futures index , which has risen more than  8 percent since early  Aug ust, has been 
boosted by  droug ht-related increases for many  crops. Crop conditions seem to 
have stabiliz ed because of substantial rainfall in recent weeks in the major 
growing  areas, and most forecasters now  point to about a 7 percent drop this 
year in the output of corn and a similar decline in soy bean production. 
Labor  Costs 
Averag e hourly  earning s for producti on or nonsupervisory  workers rose 
0.3 percent in Aug ust after a 0.2 percent g ain in J uly. Higher unemploy ment and 
lower consum er pri ce inflation have cont ributed to a sharp decel eration in this 
measure of labor costs; averag e hourly  earning s increased 3.1 percent over the 
twelve months ended in Aug ust and 4.1 percent over the preceding  twelve-
month period. 
The latest available data on broader measures of compensation are for the 
second quarter. A second-quarter g ain of 3.7 percent (annual rate) for 
compensation per hour in the nonfarm bus iness sector boosted the four-quarter 
chang e to about 2-1/2 percent. This measure of labor costs has accelerated over 
the past couple of quarter s despite the pronounced deceleration in averag e hourly 
earni ngs; the di fference l ikely reflects the di ssipation of t he drag  associ ated wi th 
the declining  exercise of stock options  during  much of 2001 as equity  prices 
slumped. The 
II-40
II-41
II-42

II-43
recent  quart erly readi ngs are roug hly in line with those of t he em ployment cost
index , which does not  include t he exercise of st ock opt ions and has decel erated
gradually  since 2000. 
On the benefits side, health insura nce premiums in the  Federal Employ ees
Health B enefits Prog ram will rise an averag e 11 percent in 2003, the third
consecutive double-dig it increase.  e Annual Employ er Benefits Survey
conducted by  the Kaiser F amily Founda tion and the Health Research and
Educ ationa l Trust showe d that health insur ance premiums f or family plans are
increasing  12-3/4 percent in 2002, similar to the increases in health benefit costs
recorded by  the EC I so far t his year.  ser survey  also indicated that heal th
insurance cost s were i ncreasi ng for bot h em ployers and workers, wi th the share
of premiums paid by  covered worker s holding  steady  at 27 percent for 2002,
identical to the survey  resul ts for t he precedi ng two y ears.Th
The Kai
Domestic Financial
Developments                          


DomesticFinancialDevelopments
Overview
Theuneventful passingoftheAugust 14 deadlineto certifyfinancial statementsprovidedsomeassurancetoinvestors,andforatime,investoranxietiesappeared to ebb somewhat. However, subsequent news suggestingasofter
economyand heightened tensions with Ir aq weighed on stock prices and boosted
demandforTreasurysecurities. Onbalance,equityprices declinedsomewhatsincetheAugust FOMC meeting,whilesharepricevolatilityremainedatrelativelyhigh levels. Yields on Treasur ies and investment-gradecorporate
securities fell about 35 basis points, whileyields on speculative-gradebonds felleven more. Although market participants marked up theexpected path ofthefederal funds ratein thenearterm in responseto thewordingoftheFOMCannouncement and comments byFederal Re serveofficials, someodds on easing
byyear-end remain.
Nonfinancial businesses evidentlypaid down debt on net in August but seem to
haveresumed borrowingin September, albeit in meagervolume. Bycontrast,
household borrowingappears to haveb een well maintained recently, gettinga
boost from strongermotorvehiclesales and lowmortgagerates. Meanwhile,Treasuryand stateand local government debt has continued to expand fairly
briskly.
Policy Expectations, Stock Prices, and InterestRates
TheFOMC’s decision at theAugust meeting--to leavetheintended federalfunds rateunchanged and to assess th erisks as weighted toward economic
weakness ratherthan balanced--elicited anoticeabledrop in equityprices andTreasurycoupon yields immediatel yaftertheannouncement. Market
participants evidentlyviewed thechangeand accompanyingstatement asforetellingaweakereconomicoutlook. Overtheintermeetingperiod, theexpected near-term path ofthefederal f unds rateticked highe ras statements by
avarietyofFederal Reserveofficials apparentlyled financial marketparticipants totheviewthat less monetarypolicyeaselikelywouldbeforthcoming. Rates on federal funds fu tures contracts indicatethat investors
currentlyseeonlyaslight chanceofapolicyeasingat theupcomingmeeting.In addition, noneoftheprimarydealers surveyed recentlyexpect achangein thestanceofpolicyat this meeting, although a small minorityanticipatesignificant
easing--in theneighborhood of1/2 to 3/4 percentagepoint--byyear-end. Atlongerhorizons, investors sawthesofte reconomicnews as implyingless policy
tighteningwas in store, and theymarke d down thepath forthefederal funds rate
expected after earlynext year.
Broad equityindexes fell someon balancefrom thelast FOMC meeting. Early
in theperiod equityprices roseconsider ably, boosted in part bytherelatively
uneventful passingoftheSEC’s August 14 deadlineforofficers of largecompanies to certifycorporatefinancial statements. Morerecently, however,equityprices havereversed course on concerns about thepaceofeconomic
growth,theless sanguineoutlookforcorporateprofits,andthepossibilityof
III-2
III-3
militaryactionagainst Iraq. Theimpliedvolatilityofequityprices remains
elevated, indicatingthat investors conti nueto perceivesignificant risks going
forward. Theforward earnings-pricer atio fortheS&P 500 remained just above
6 percent, but its spread overthereal Treasuryyield has risen to levels not seensincetheearly1990s.
With theoutlook formonetarypolicyalittleless accommodativein thenear
term,shorter-maturityTreasuryyields edgedupovertheintermeetingperiod.In contrast, intermediate-and long-term Treasuryyields notablydeclined asincomingdatawereviewed as suggestingasofteroutlook fortheeconomy.Repeatingthepattern ofthepast yearorso, Treasurycoupon yields largelymovedinthesamedirectionas equityprices,risingonnet earlyintheintermeetingperiod beforeturningdown in recent weeks. At theten-yearmaturity,yields onTreasuryinflation-indexeddebt fell abit less thanyields onnominal Treasurysecurities,leavingmeasures ofinflationcompensationslightlylower. Movements inTreasuryyields weresubstantial at times; perhaps theseasonallythin tradingconditions typical ofsummer’s end exacerbated theimpact ofmarket developments.
Investorsentiment about thecorporat ebond market seemed to improveafter
August 14th. However, therenewed appeal ofcorporatebonds was evidentlytemperedbytheperceivedweakertoneofeconomicdata. Yields onhigher-rated investment-gradecorporatebonds la rgelytracked thoseon Treasuries of
comparablematurities, leavingrisk s preads on thesesecurities about unchanged
on balance. In contrast, yields on BBB -rated and below-i nvestment-gradebonds
declined bymorethan thoseon compara bleTreasuries, and fornearlyall
industrysectors. Even so, risk spreads on thoseweakercredits remainedexceptionallywide,inkeepingwiththeanticipationofacontinuedhighlevel ofdefaults and lowrecoveryrates going forward. Risk spreads forcommercial
paperwereabout unchanged overtheinte rmeetingperiod, remainingaround
typical levels.
BusinessFinance
Themajorcomponents ofnet debt financ ingbybusinesses--bonds, commercial
paper, and bank loans--contracted furtheron balancein August. Despitearesumption ofbond issuancebyinvestme nt-gradenonfinancial corporations
afterAugust 14,issuanceremainedfairlyweaklast month,andheftyretirementsheld net bond issuancenearzero. Moreover, thevolumeofoutstandingcommercial papercontracted onceagain in August as anumberoffirmsreportedlyused theproceeds from bond i ssuanceto paydown paper. Firms did
not borrowon net from banks either, as C&Iloans wereabout unchanged,thoughthis is incontrast totheconsid erablecontraction seen overthepast
several months. Availabled ataforSeptembersuggest that net debt financing
has pickedup,but onlyslightly.
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
Gross publicequityissuancereceded again in August: Seasoned equity
offerings fell to nearzero, and ther ewereno IPOs last month--foronlythe
second timesince1975. CurrentlyonlyafewIPOdeals arein thepipelinefortheremainderofSeptember,aswidelypublicizedinvestigationsintotheIPOallocationprocess at investment banks likelyhavedampedsuchactivity.Venturecapital investments fell again in thesecond quarter, and thesluggish
paceofnewcapital committed suggest s apickup is not around thecorner.
Equityretirements areestimated to hav erisen in Julyas announcements ofshare
buyback programs roseafterstock prices plummeted. AnnouncementsremainedelevatedinAugust but havefallenbacksomewhat todateinSeptember. Meanwhile, cash-financed merger activityhas been scant, and few
newdeals havebeen announced recently.
Measures ofcorporatecredit qualitydeteriorated furtherin Julyand August.
Moody’s net downgrades ofnonfinancial corporatedebt again exceededupgrades, though byaconsiderablyna rrowermargin than in recent quarters.
Downgrades continued to beconcentrated in thetelecom and energysectors.Bond defaults totaled $36 billion in J ulyandAugust,boostedbythetitanic
default of$26billionofWorldCom debt,andthetwelve-monthmovingaveragedefault ratestands at arecord level. R ecoveryrates on defaulted bonds remain
at historicallylowlevels, particular lyin thetelecom sector. In addition, banks’
Call Report dataforthesecond quarter showthat thedelinquencyrateon C&I
loans edged up again, although it remains belowthelevels seen in theearly1990s.
Forward-lookingmeasures ofcorporat ecredit qualityalso worsened abit. The
quantityofdebt on Moody’s Watchlist rem ained somewhat elevated in August,
suggestingthat additional net downgrades arelikelyin comingmonths, andKMV's estimateofexpectedyear-aheaddefaults surgedinJulyandthenedgedup to arecord level in August.
Earnings revisions byanalysts sincethelast FOMC meetinghavebeen scarce,
but warnings areexpected to pick up in comingdays as thequarter-endapproaches. Judgingfrom thecurrent estimateofgrowthinS&P 500-based
earnings pershare--at 18 percent above last year’s level--equityanalysts
apparentlystill haveaveryoptimisticviewofthird-quarterearnings.
Commercial Real EstateFinance
Commercial mortgagedebt increase d 8 percent at an annual ratein thesecond
quarter,considerablyfasterthaninthefirst quarterbut still belowlast year’storrid pace. In thethird quarter, however, growth likelyhas tapered offinkeepingwith theongoingcontraction i n outlays on nonresidential structures.
Nonetheless,issuanceofcommercial-mortgage-backedsecurities (CMBS)hasbeenwell maintainedsofarinthethirdquarter,andCMBS riskspreads remainedin thelowerpart oftheirrespectiveranges overthepast coupleofyears. These
III-8
III-9
indicators do not suggest elevated c oncern about prospectivedefaults.
Delinquencyrates on commercial mortg ages and CMBS also remained stable
overtheintermeetingperiod and we ll belowthoseseen in theearly1990s.
Household Finance
Thedipinhomemortgagerates tohistorical lows duringtheintermeetingperiodprompted arecord level ofapplications formortgagerefinancings and ahighvolumeofmortgagepurchaseapplications. Consistent withthis activity,preliminarydatapoint toacontinuedbriskexpansionofresidential mortgagedebt in thethird quarter, though probabl yalittleslowerthan the10-3/4 percent
rateposted in thesecond quarter.
Availabledataindicatethat consumercr edit continuedtogrowstronglyinthe
third quarter, boosted bymotor-vehic le-related borrowing. Asharp drop in
averageinterest rates on new carloans at auto financecompanies in Julyreflected theeffects ofthelatest round ofzero-percent financingincentives.
Overall household debt expanded at ara pid clip in thesecond quarter, keeping
thedebt-serviceburdennearits histori cal peak. Both thedebt-serviceburden and
various measures ofhousehold credit qualityhavestayed within theranges
observed forawhile. Thedelinquencyr ateon credit card pools edged down
slightlyin Julybut stayed in theneighborhood ofrecent experience, whilethedelinquencyrateon auto loans at financ ecompanies remained nearhistorical
lows through July. Call Report dataforthesecond quartershowthat thedelinquencyrates on credit card and ot herconsumerloans at banks werelittle
changed from theirsomewhat elevated levels in thefirst quarter(not shown).With regard to mortgagedelinquencie s, theseries published byMortgage
Bankers Association ticked up in the second quarterowingmainlyto thepoor
performanceofFHAmortgages. In contra st, banks’mortgagedelinquencies
edged down, likelyreflectingtherela tivelysmall proportion ofFHAmortgages
held bybanks.
Theratio ofhousehold net worth to disposableincome, which fell steeplyin the
second quarter, was dragged down bythe sharpdeclinesinequityprices. With
broad equityindexes havingmoved dow n furtheron balancesincetheend of
June, this ratio has likelydroppe d again in thecurrent quarter.
Afterwithdrawingrecord amounts from equitymutual funds in July, households
madeonlymodest net withdrawals in Aug ust, and most ofthesecamebeforethe
passingoftheAugust 14 certification deadline. Thesewithdrawals reflect aportfolio shift toward saferassets, a s bond mutual funds posted substantial net
inflows inbothJulyandAugust,andth eseinflows weredisproportionately
directed toward government bond funds . AvailabledataforearlySeptember
suggest that modest net inflows to equityfunds havelikelyresumed.
III-10
III-11
1. The veryrapid expansionofconsumer loansonthe booksofbanksinA ugust owed to
the unwinding of several securitizations. Growth in consumer loans in August was 3-3/4 percent
at an annual rate after adjusting for this effect.Treasury and Agency Finance
TheTreasuryborrowed $56 billion on net in August, up sharplyfrom $36 billionin July. Most ofthestep-up occurred in thecoupon sector, includingsales of$27billionintwo-yearnotes that garneredabid-to-coverratioat thehighendoftherecent range. FannieMaeand FreddieMacpaid down outstandingdebtslightlyinJuly,afterraising$17billioninthesecondquarter. Evenso,spreadson agencies overcomparableTreasurie s havenarrowed onlyabit this yearand
wereabout unchanged overtheintermee tingperiod. FannieMae’s shareprice
has fallen sharplyin thepast several w eeks becauseofinvestors’concerns about
its interest-rate-riskmanagement practices.
Stateand LocalGovernmentFinance
Gross issuanceoflong-term municipal d ebt in August and Septembercontinued
unabated from therapid paceofrecent months. Strongissuanceforboth newcapital spendingand advance-refunding was spurred bythefurtherdeclinein
yields on both revenueand general oblig ation bonds. Short-term issuance, often
usedtomeet tax revenueshortfalls,als o remained strong. Theratio oflong-term
municipal bond yields to Treasuryyield s rosenotablyovertheintermeeting
period, especiallyforrevenuebonds. The riselikelyreflects heavymunicipal
issuance, although it mayalso suggest someerosion in credit qualityin thissector.
Moneyand Bank Credit
M2 growth moderated somewhat in August from July’s torrid pace, andpreliminarydataforSeptemberindicatefurtherslowing. Growthcontinuedtobeconcentrated in liquid deposits, which wereboosted bythehistoricallylow
opportunitycost ofholdingsuchdeposits,volatileequityprices,andahighvolumeofmortgagerefinancingactivity. Thecontractioninsmall timedepositsprobablypersisted becauseofhouseholds ’aversion to lockingin thelowrates
availableon theseinstruments. Reta il moneymarket mutual funds recorded
small net outflows, perhaps reflectinga n unwindingofJuly’s safehaven flows.
Theunusuallyslowgrowth ofcurrencylikelyindicates amoderation in bothinternational and domesticdemand.
Bank credit increased at a15-1/2 percent annual ratein August, apacemorethan
doublethat in July. Thestronggain partlyreflected asurgein holdings ofmortgage-backedsecurities. Banks alsocontinuedtoextendlargevolumes ofcredit intheform ofhomeequityloans andresidential real estateloans.
1The
SurveyofTerms ofBusiness Lendingc onducted last month indicates that overall
loanpricingconditions still reflect cautious lendingbybanks: Themedianspread ofC&Iloan rates overmarket inter est rates on instruments ofcomparable
maturityremained wide, and spreads o n higher-risk loans declined onlyslightly
from theirloftylevels.
III-12

III-13
III-14
III-15
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S. International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The deficit in U.S. international tra de in goods and services was $37.2 billion in
June, $0.7 billion smaller than in May (re vised). For the second quarter, the
trade deficit was $445 billion at an annual r ate, $65 billion larger than in the first
quarter as a sharp rise in imports exceeded the jump in exports. NIPA real netexports weakened about $47 billion in the s econd quarter. The trade deficit for
July, $34.6 billion, was released on Greenbook publication day; details will beprovided in the Greenbook supplement.
Exports of goods and services rose 1.7 percent in June, following a smaller
increase in May. Exported goods jumped 2.0 percent, with the largest increasein the category of capital goods (especi ally semiconductors and aircraft).
Exports of services rose only slightly. For the second quarter, the value ofexported goods and services grew 17 percent at an annual rate. The largestincreases were in exported machinery ( especially semiconductors and other
machinery), industrial supplies (partic ularly chemicals), and automotive
products. Service receipts rose moderately , as receipts from foreigners traveling
in the United States remained close to first quarter levels, while receipts fromother private services rose.
Imports of goods and services in June were marginally higher than in May. The
level of imported goods inched up from a lready high May levels, and service
payments grew 2 percent (largely royalties and license fees). Increases inimported consumer goods, aircraft and i ndustrial supplies were partly offset by
declines in automotive products and o il (about half from a drop in price). For
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
the second quarter, imports of goods and services surged 35 percent at an annual
rate. Increases were recorded in all major trade categories other than aircraft.The largest increase was in imports of oil (largely price), while automotiveproducts, consumer goods, machinery, and industrial supplies also recordedhefty gains. About one-third of the incr ease in imported machinery was in high-
tech goods, the second quarterly gain. I n addition, imports of basic industrial
and service machinery rose for the first time in over a year. Payments by U.S.travelers abroad remained close to firs t quarter levels, while other private
services increased.
Prices of Internationally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports. The price index of imported non-oil goods rose 0.1 percent in
August, following no change in July. The price of core goods was up 0.2percent; the price of computers was down 0.2 percent and the price ofsemiconductors remained unchanged. T he component of core goods with the
largest increase in August was the pri ce index for capital goods. Prices in other
major categories were little changed. In July and August, core goods prices rose1¼ percent (a.r.) above the second-quart er level, following an increase of about
1¾ percent (a.r.) in the second quarter.
Oil. The BLS price of imported oil rose 2.1 percent in August after climbing a
revised 4.3 percent in July. The BLS pr ice of imported oil is up significantly
since the beginning of the year, rising e very month except June. The spot price
of West Texas intermediate (WTI) crude oil has also risen on average since the
beginning of the year and is currently around $29 per barrel, up from its averagevalue near $19 per barrel in December. Factors putting upward pressure on
crude oil prices are low exports from Iraq, the possibility of U.S. militaryintervention there, and tighter stock levels in the United States.
Exports .Prices of total U.S. goods exports rose 0.1 percent in August and the
price of core goods rose 0.2 percent. The largest increase in August was in theprice of agricultural exports, which ro se 1.9 percent following an increase of 2.6
percent in July. Prices of industrial s upplies and materials fell 0.3 percent,
reversing the upward trend it has experienced most of this year, while prices inother major categories were generally little changed. The price of core goods inJuly and August on average was about 3 percent at an annual rate above thesecond-quarter level, which was up about 3½ percent from the first quarter.
U.S. Current Account through 2002:Q2
In 2002:Q2, the U.S. current account deficit increased to $520 billion at a
seasonally adjusted annual rate (s.a.a.r.), $70 billion greater than the revised first
quarter deficit. Increases in the deficit on goods and services and the deficit on
income more than offset a decrease in net outflows for transfers.
IV-6
Annual
2000 -378.7 27.7 -59.3 -410.3
2001 -358.3 20.5 -55.6 -393.4
Quarterly
2001:Q3 -319.1 9.4 -55.6 -365.3
Q4 -352.1 32.4 -60.6 -380.3
2002:Q1 -382.0 2.7 -70.6 -449.8
Q2 -442.5 -18.5 -58.9 -519.8
Change
Q3-Q2 54.2 -20.7 -1.8 31.6
Q4-Q3 -33.0 23.0 -5.0 -15.0
Q1-Q4 -29.9 -29.7 -9.9 -69.5
Q2-Q1 -60.5 -21.2 11.7 -70.0
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis.Peri odU.S. Current Account
(Billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted annual rate)
Other
income and
transfers, netCurrent
account
balanceInvestment
income,
netGoods and
services,
netFor the second quarter, the deficit o n goods and services increased $60.5 billion,
s.a.a.r., with imports increasing faster than exports. Within exports, thecategories with the largest increases we re industrial supplies, capital goods, and
automotive products. Within imports, the categories with the largest increases
were petroleum and petroleum products , consumer goods, and automotive parts.
The increase in petroleum and petrole um products was largely owing to higher
prices. The $4.4 billion s.a.a.r increase in the services surplus in the secondquarter was swamped by the $64.9 billion i ncrease in the goods deficit. The
deficit on investment income increased $21.2 billion, s.a.a.r., with directinvestment payments increasing faster than receipts. The rapid growth in directinvestment payments represents a fur ther recovery from the very depressed
levels recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001. The net outflow of other income
and transfers decreased by $11.7 billion, s. a.a.r., reflecting a decrease in U.S.
government grants.
The second-quarter release included revis ions to first-quarter data. The current
account deficit was virtually unchanged w ith a downward revision to the deficit
on investment income offsetting a downward revision to the services surplus anda slight increase in the net outflow of transfers.
IV-7
U.S. International Financial Transactions
Net purchases of U.S. securities by private sector foreigners (line 4 of the
Summary of U.S. International Transac tions table) were again quite strong in
July. After a slow start in January and February, the pace of foreign netpurchases has increased substantially and is now approximately equal to last
year's record pace. Net purchases of Treasuries ($30 billion, line 4a) were thehighest in almost five years and well above the levels recorded in recent years,perhaps due in part to a flight to quality at a time of investor nervousness over
corporate malfeasance. The largest in creases were recorded for the United
Kingdom ($11 billion), Japan ($9 billion), and the Cayman Islands ($7 billion).In contrast, net purchases of both agency (line 4b) and corporate debt securities(line 4c) were well below average, with purchases of corporate debt securities attheir lowest level in over seven years, coinciding with a sharp reduction in newcorporate debt issuance. Foreign net purchases of equities (line 4d) increased to$10 billion on unusually high trading volume.
U.S. private investors were substantial net sellers of foreign securities (line 5) in
July. Sales of foreign bonds (line 5a) continued, but at a somewhat higher pacethan in recent months. Net sales of forei gn equities (line 5b) were the highest
ever recorded for a single month, altering the recent trend of net purchases.
After rising significantly in June due in large part to Japanese intervention
activity, foreign official reserves held in the United States rose modestly in July(line 1). Partial data from the Federa l Reserve Bank of New York indicate that
total foreign official reserves increased by $4 billion in August. Through July,foreign official inflows totaled $57 b illion–a pace well above any recorded since
1996.
Recently released balance of payments data for the second quarter show that
U.S. direct investment abroad (line 6) remained constant at $29 billion. Foreigndirect investment in the United States (line 7) continued its downward trend andwas only $1 billion in the quarter, reflecting both intercompany debt outflowsand a further slowing of merger and acquisition activity.
The statistical discrepancy was positive $49 billion in the quarter, following a
discrepancy of positive $25 billion in the first quarter. A positive statisticaldiscrepancy indicates some combination o f under-recorded net financial inflows
or over-recorded net imports of goods and services.
IV-8
Summary of U.S. International Transactions
(Billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted except as noted)
2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 June July
Official financial flows 39.3 2.0 13.2 5.3 8.8 45.6 26.3 2.6
1. Change in foreign official assets
in the U.S. (increase, +) 39.6 6.9 16.8 5.5 8.4 47.5 29.1 2.9
a. G-10 countries 12.3 -7.9 -5.6 9.1 4.7 17.9 13.5 6.1
b. OPEC countries 10.7 -1.9 -4.8 4.2 -6.5 1.1 1.4 -0.1
c. All other countries 16.6 16.8 27.2 -7.8 10.2 28.5 14.2 -3.1
2. Change in U.S. official reserve
assets (decrease, +) -.3 -4.9 -3.6 -.2 .4 -1.8 -2.8 -.2
Private financial flows 370.3 379.8 29.6 145.3 90.6 34.8 ... ...
Banks
3. Change in net foreign positions
of banking offices in the U.S.1-6.7 7.3 -1.7 38.7 -2.3 –17.8 -30.0 -.6
Securities2
4. Foreign net purchases of U.S.
securities (+) 381.0 404.4 51.2 128.2 62.4 106.4 39.3 44.9
a. Treasury securities -76.4 5.6 -14.2 28.3 -7.1 1.6 12.6 29.6b. Agency bonds 96.5 86.4 19.4 28.1 2.8 32.4 3.3 3.4c. Corporate and municipal bonds 165.7 201.7 33.1 38.3 43.3 60.3 19.3 2.4d. Corporate stocks
3195.1 121.9 12.9 33.5 23.4 12.0 4.0 9.5
5. U.S. net acquisitions (-) of
foreign securities -126.6 -95.1 10.0 -26.2 2.0 -10.9 -1.6 18.3
a. Bonds -23.3 12.3 21.0 -7.4 .6 9.5 4.5 6.5b. Stock purchases -22.9 -62.7 -9.3 -12.4 3.2 -20.3 -6.2 11.8c. Stock swaps
3-80.4 -44.7 1.8 -6.4 -1.8 .0 .0 .0
Other flows (quarterly data, s.a.)
6. U.S. direct investment (-) abroad -178.3 -127.8 -41.7 -27.5 -29.3 -29.4 ... ...7. Foreign direct investment in U.S. 307.7 130.8 14.2 21.9 16.2 1.0 ... ...8. Foreign holdings of U.S. currency 1.1 23.8 8.2 10.5 4.5 7.2 ... ...9. Other (inflow, + )
4-7.9 36.4 - 10.5 -.1 25.3 -21.8 ... ...
U.S. current account (s.a.) -410.3 -393.4 -91.3 -95.1 -112.5 -130.0 ... ...
Capital account balance (s.a.)5.8 .8 .2 .2 .2 .2 ... ...
Statistical discrepancy (s.a.) .0 10.7 48.3 -55.8 24.7 49.4 ... ...
NOTE: The sum of official and private financial flows, the current account balance, the capital account balance, and the statistical
discrepancy is zero. Details may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1. Changes in dollar-denominated positions of all depository institutions and bank holding companies plus certain transactions
between broker-dealers and unaffiliated foreigners (particularly borrowing and lending under repurchase agreements). Includeschanges in custody liabilities other than U.S. Treasury bills.
2. Includes adjustments BEA makes to account for incomplete coverage, but excludes adjustments for commissions and therefore
does not match exactly the data on U.S. international transactions published by the Department of Commerce.
3. Includes (4d) or represents (5c) stocks acquired through mergers.4. Transactions by nonbanking concerns and other banking and official transactions not shown elsewhere plus amounts resulting
from adjustments made by the Department of Commerce and revisions in lines 1 through 5 since publication of the quarterly data inthe Survey of Current Business.
5. Consists of transactions in nonproduced nonfinancial assets and capital transfers.
n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
IV-9
Foreign Exchange Markets
Since the August meeting of the FOMC, the trade-weighted exchange value of
the dollar against the major foreign cu rrencies has appreciated about ¾ percent
on balance. Although concerns about th e timing and speed of recovery in the
U.S. economy continued to be widespread during the intermeeting period, the
effect of these concerns on the exchange value of the dollar appeared to be offsetby reports showing that recovery in othe r industrial countries, particularly in
Germany and Japan, would also likely b e slow. Against individual currencies,
the dollar was up slightly, on balance, over the period against the euro. Thedollar appreciated about 2½ percent versus the Japanese yen and ¾ percentagainst the Canadian dollar but depreciated 1 percent vis-a-vis sterling.
Equity prices in major industrial countri es continued to be quite volatile during
the intermeeting period and generally registered substantial losses. While U.S.equity indexes remained above the level s reached in July, European stock prices
ended the period near the multi-year lows reached at that time. German stockswere hardest hit, falling 15 percent, with insurance share prices plunging30 percent. Data casting fresh doubt on Ja pan’s fledgling recovery pressured
Japanese stock prices down, with the Nikkei index reaching its lowest levelsince the early 1980s during the period. This prompted calls by Japanese
politicians for government interventio n to support equity prices. On September
18, the Bank of Japan unexpectedly announ ced that it would consider measures
IV-10
to buy shares directly from banks, leading Japanese banking shares to quickly
rebound on the day.
Equity market volatility, concerns about global growth, and uncertainty about
the situation in Iraq likely contributed to flows out of equity and into sovereign
bonds, and ten-year benchmark bond yiel ds ended the period down substantially
in all major industrial countries. The yi eld on Japan’s ten-year benchmark
sovereign bond had fallen more than 20 b asis points, to its lowest level since
1998, before rebounding after the announcement by the Bank of Japan on sharepurchases. Weak Japanese data, the upc oming end of the fiscal half-year, and
unconfirmed reports that the Bank of Japan was considering increasing itsoutright purchases of government bonds, all appeared to weigh on the alreadylow bond yield.
The European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan, and the Bank of England did not
adjust their monetary policy stances during the period, in line with marketexpectations. The Bank of Canada had generally been expected to raise its targetfor the overnight rate on September 4, but left it at 2.75 percent, citing weaker
prospects for growth in the United States and global financial market volatility.Three-month interest rates in major indus trial countries registered only small net
changes, reflecting the stability in policy rates.
IV-11
In Latin America, the focus continued to be on Brazil and on the potential
impact of a victory by an opposition party candi date in next month’ s presidential
election. Although the Brazilian realdepreciated 6 percent against the dollar on
net over the period, Brazil’s EMBI+ spr ead over Treasuries declined 300 basis
points. Brazilian sovereign bond prices continued to react positively to thefinancial assistance package which was announced by the IMF on August 7, withapproval on September 6. Although Argentina appeared no closer to findingsolutions to its fiscal and banking crises, the peso, in very restricted trading, waslittle changed against the dollar, and Argentina’s EMBI+ spread over Treasuries,though still extremely high, declined about 600 basis points. The Mexican pesodepreciated over 1 percent against the dollar.
In emerging Asia, equity prices in Taiwan, Singapore, and Malaysia declined
6 to 8 percent over the period, amid con cerns about the pace of the recovery in
the technology sector. The New Taiwan do llar depreciated 2½ percent against
IV-12
the dollar. Korean financial marke ts outperformed the other technology
exporting economies, as stock prices rose a bit and the Korean won appreciatedslightly versus the dollar.
                                  
     . The Desk did not intervene during the period for theaccounts of the System or Treasury.
IV-13
Developments in Foreign Industrial Countries
Data on second-quarter GDP for the majo r foreign industrial countries showed
moderate growth, but the pace and sources of the expansion varied acrosscountries. Canadian growth remaine d the most robust and continued to be
supported by strength in consumption and investment. Growth in Japan, theeuro area and the United Kingdom was slower and continued to depend onstrong contributions from net exports, w hile investment spending declined
further. Data released for the most recent months suggest that the pace ofrecovery remains relatively strong in Canada and is picking up in the UnitedKingdom but that growth is flattening out at low rates in Japan and the euro area.
Inflation rates generally moved higher, in part owing to higher energy prices.
Twelve-month consumer price inflatio n rose to about 2 percent in the United
Kingdom and to just above that in the eur o area and Canada, whereas consumer
prices continued to fall at nearly a 1 percent pace in Japan. Foreign centralbanks have not changed their policy inter est rates since August, as financial-
market volatility has contributed to un certainty about growth prospects.
InJapan , real GDP rose 2.6 percent (s.a.a.r.) during the second quarter. The
figure was based on a new computation method that gives greater weight tosupply-side statistics. The rise was le d by strong external demand; net exports
added 1.6 percentage points to growt h, with very rapid growth in exports
outpacing a jump in imports. Private consumption edged up modestly, whileresidential investment declined. Business fixed investment fell much less thanthe roughly double-digit drops registered over the previous five quarters. Public
investment fell 7 percent. Inventories made a slight positive contribution togrowth, following a year of large negative contributions. Using the newmethodology for computing GDP, gro wth in Q1 was revised down from
5.7 percent to about zero.
Indicators for the third quarter suggest th at recovery may be flagging. Industrial
production was about flat in July for the second consecutive month. Household
expenditures were up only modestly in July compared with the second-quarter
average. Recent data for business fixed investment have been mixed; coremachinery orders rose 1.9 percent in Jul y, following a 2.9 percent increase in
June, but nonresidential building starts d eclined in July. Residential building
starts rose from June to July, but were down 3 percent in July from their second-quarter average. Real exports rose only moderately in July from the second-quarter average, while imports jumped, sharply narrowing the trade surplus.
Labor market conditions remain unf avorable, with employment down
1.2 percent in July from year-earlier levels. The unemployment rate was stuck at
IV-14
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001200112001 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
GDP 2.3 -1.5 -2.6 -2.8 -.0 2.6
Total domestic demand 2.2 -1.1 -2.4 -3.0 -2.0 1.0
Consumption .3 1.6 -.4 .5 1.9 1.1Private investment 11.0 -6.9 -8.6 -12.0 -7.6 -1.8Public investment -11.3 -3.5 3.1 -.7 -2.9 -7.4Government consumption 4.1 3.0 2.2 3.0 1.1 2.2Inventories
2.1 -.7 -.8 -1.2 -1.5 .8
Exports 9.7 -11.3 -12.1 -6.6 20.5 24.9Imports 10.7 -9.0 -11.5 -8.9 -.2 10.8Net exports
2.1 -.5 -.3 .1 1.9 1.6
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
5.4 percent in July, only a touch below the record-high rate registered in
December. The job-offers-to-applicants ratio, considered a key leading indicatorof employment conditions, edged up in July. Core consumer goods prices in theTokyo area (which exclude fresh food but include energy) increased 0.2 percent
in August from the previous month, but were down 0.9 percent (n.s.a.) from ayear earlier. Wholesale prices for domes tic goods stayed roughly flat between
February and August, but remained belo w year-earlier levels. The GDP deflator
in the second quarter was 0.9 percent below its year-earlier level.
The Bank of Japan (BOJ) announced on September 18 that it is considering
directly purchasing equity held by banks . The official statement was short on
details, providing little information on the price, quantity, or timing of any suchpurchases. In a news conference held after the announcement, BOJ Governor
Hayami remarked that the purchases would be made to help banks “reduce theimpact of falling stocks” and to improve the stability of the Japanese financialsystem. Japanese banks currently own a substantial portion of Japanese equitiesand will be required to deduct losses on t hose holdings from their regulatory
capital at the September 30 close of the fiscal half-year. The BOJ kept theguidelines for money market operations unchanged, with a goal of maintaining
an outstanding balance of curre nt accounts at the Bank of around ¥10 to
IV-15
¥15 trillion. The BOJ announcement leaves unclear how its stock purchases
would affect banks' current account balances at the BOJ.
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul. Aug.
Industrial production1-3.4 .6 3.8 4.1 -.2 .1 n.a.
All-industry index -.9 .6 .3 1.0 -.1 n.a. n.a.Housing starts -2.5 .8 -.8 11.3 -13.1 3.1 n.a.Machinery orders
2-7.5 -7.4 7.1 .2 2.9 1.9 n.a.
Machinery shipments -4.7 3.6 6.6 8.7 -3.0 -1.5 n.a.New car registrations -5.5 1.9 5.3 4.9 -11.2 1.2 18.2Unemployment rate
35.4 5.3 5.3 5.4 5.4 5.4 n.a.
Job offers ratio4.52 .51 .53 .53 .53 .54 n.a.
Business sentiment5-40 -41 -32 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)6-1.0 -.9 -1.1 -1.1 -1.0 -1.0 -.9
Wholesale prices6-1.4 -1.4 -1.1 -1.2 -1.0 -1.2 -.9
1. Mining and manufacturing.
2. Private sector, excluding ships and electric power.
3. Percent.4. Level of indicator.5. Tankan survey, diffusion index.6. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
On September 19 or 20, the government is expected to announce a package of
stimulus measures. Likely components i nclude measures to boost Japanese
stock prices, policies to quicken dis posal of banks’ non-performing loans, and
tax cuts in the range of ¥1 trillion to ¥2.5 trillion (0.2 to 0.5 percent of GDP).Earlier this month, the government a nnounced that any future tax cuts are
expected to be coupled with future tax inc reases or government spending cuts in
order to maintain the medium-term revenue neutrality of tax reform. On thespending side, the government aims to keep next fiscal year’s general
expenditures equal to or below this fiscal year’s figure of ¥47.5 trillion.
IV-16
Euro-area real GDP rose 1.4 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter, the same
pace as in the first quarter. Once again, growth was supported by positivecontributions from net exports and inventory investment, although thosecontributions were about half as larg e as in the first quarter. Investment
spending fell for the sixth consecutive qua rter. Private consumption spending,
however, rebounded in the second quarter as spending by German consumers
recovered after having been cut sharply late last year.
Euro-Area Real GDP
1
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20002200122001 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
GDP 2.7 .4 .7 -1.2 1.4 1.4Total domestic demand 2.2 1.9 -1.1 -.9 .2 .8Consumption 1.8 1.6 .4 -.1 -.7 1.6Investment 3.4 -2.5 -2.5 -3.6 -2.3 -3.2Government consumption 2.2 1.4 1.2 1.5 3.1 1.5Inventories
3-.0 -.7 -1.0 -.3 .5 .3
Exports 12.2 -3.3 -1.3 -6.6 .5 8.0Imports 11.3 -4.9 -6.0 -6.4 -2.9 6.9Net exports
3.5 .5 1.7 -.3 1.2 .6
Memo:
France 3.8 .2 1.9 -2.0 2.1 2.0Germany 1.9 .1 -.8 -1.2 1.1 1.1Italy 2.6 .6 .3 -.9 .5 .9
1. Includes Greece as of 2001 Q1.
2. Q4/Q4.3. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Indicators for the third quarter suggest that growth is stuck at the relatively low
first-half rate. Purchasing managers i ndexes (PMIs) for both manufacturing and
services declined in July and August to just above the 50 level that is thethreshold for indicating positive growth. In Germany, the largest and recentlythe most sluggish of the euro-area ec onomies, industrial p roduction and new
manufacturing orders each declined about 1 percent in July, and retail sales fell
more than 2 percent.
IV-17
The twelve-month rate of euro-area c onsumer price inflation edged back above
the ECB’s target ceiling of 2 percent in August. Excluding food, energy, alcoholand tobacco, the twelve-month inflation rate remained at 2.4 percent in August,just below the six-year peak of 2.5 percent reached in May. Producer pricesremain below year-earlier levels.
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul. Aug.
Industrial production1-1.8 .8 .1 .0 .5 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume .5 .2 -.3 .3 -.5 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
28.1 8.1 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.3 n.a.
Consumer confidence3-10.7 -9.7 -9.0 -8.0 -9.0 -10.0 n.a.
Industrial confidence4-17.0 -13.0 -10.0 -9.0 -10.0 -10.0 n.a.
Mfg. orders, Germany -.9 1.2 2.4 3.4 -3.3 -.9 n.a.CPI
52.1 2.6 2.1 2.0 1.8 1.9 2.1
Producer prices5-.8 -.9 -.9 -1.0 -1.1 -.6 n.a.
M358.1 7.2 7.1 7.7 7.1 7.1 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Percent. Euro-area standardized to ILO definition. Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
3. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries;
Averages of responses to questions on financial situation, general economic situation,and purchasing attitudes.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries;
Averages of responses to questions on production expectations, orders, and stocks.
5. Eurostat harmonized definition. Percent change from year earlier.n.a. Not available.
Slow growth has put pressure on euro-a rea government balances. The German
government revealed that its deficit f or the first half of 2002 was 3.5 percent.
With tax revenues in the second half likely to be depressed by sluggisheconomic growth, and with an increase i n government spending in response to
the recent floods in eastern Germany, it a ppears increasingly likely that the
German budget deficit will exceed the 3 percent Maastricht treaty limit this year.Germany should be able to escape sanctions by citing the exceptional
IV-18
circumstance of the floods and by empha sizing actions the government has taken
to offset the budget impact in the medium t erm. In particular , the Schroeder
government has proposed that schedul ed individual income tax cuts will be
postponed from 2003 to 2004 and corporate tax rates will be raised for one yearin 2003.
In the United Kingdom , second-quarter real GDP rose 2.3 percent (s.a.a.r.) after
two quarters of weak growth. The data were revised down substantially from
preliminary estimates owi ng to a fall-off in production during the Queen’s
Golden Jubilee celebrations in June. Cons umer spending rose briskly following
a moderation of consumption growth in the first quarter. Gross fixed capitalformation declined marginally, and inve ntories subtracted 1.4 percentage points
from growth. Exports rose more sharply t han imports, and net exports added
1.5 percentage points to growth.
U.K. Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001200112001 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
GDP 2.2 1.5 1.4 .4 .6 2.3
Total domestic demand 3.4 1.7 .7 3.0 3.2 1.1
Consumption 4.8 4.2 4.3 4.7 2.0 4.7Investment 4.5 -6.7 -14.2 -.9 -5.6 -.2Government consumption 1.3 3.9 4.8 7.9 8.1 -3.6Inventories
2-.8 -.5 -.2 -1.3 1.5 -1.4
Exports 8.7 -4.6 -11.4 -6.3 -4.0 12.5Imports 10.9 -2.8 -10.8 1.4 3.7 6.2Net exports
2-1.2 -.5 .4 -2.7 -2.8 1.5
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
As expected, industrial production boun ced back substantially in July after
plunging in June because of work stoppages related to the Golden Jubilee.Despite industrial production remaining about 1 percent below May’s level, it is
expected to result in a large “payback” effect to GDP in the third quarter.
IV-19
Other indicators for the third quarter sugge st a pick-up in growth in August after
signs of a slowdown over the past se veral months. The manufacturing PMI
recovered in August, indicating expan sion again after July’s contraction.
Business confidence improved smartly in August continuing its climb fromMay’s low. July’s trade balance narro wed somewhat from June. Retail sales
grew in July after two months of contrac tion. However, surveys for August retail
sales are mixed. The services PMI incr eased in August, continuing to indicate
expansion, whereas preliminary estimates of consumer confidence suggest littlechange in August from the month before.
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul. Aug.
Industrial production -2.3 -1.2 .3 1.1 -4.3 3.4 n.a.
Retail sales volume 1.3 1.0 1.7 -.6 -.4 .4 n.a.Unemployment rate
1
Claims-based 3.2 3.1 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.1 3.1Labor force survey
25.1 5.1 5.2 5.1 5.2 n.a. n.a.
Business confidence3-24.0 -3.3 8.0 4.0 6.0 9.0 16.0
Retail prices42.0 2.4 1.9 1.8 1.5 2.0 1.9
Producer input prices5-8.2 -5.6 -5.9 -6.4 -6.9 -3.8 -2.2
Average earnings53.3 2.9 3.9 4.0 3.8 4.2 n.a.
1. Percent.
2. Three-month average centered on month shown.3. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expecting output to decrease.
4. Excluding mortgage interest payments. Percent change from year earlier.5. Percent change from year earlier.
... Not applicable.
n.a. Not available.
Data on the housing market are mixed, with widespread concern that Britain is
experiencing a housing price bubble. Th e two leading surveys of housing prices
continued to register twelve-month inc reases of around 20 percent in August. A
new survey of housing prices (based on offer prices collected by real estate
agents) indicated housing price growth sl owed in August. In July, borrowing to
finance the purchase of new homes bounced back to just above May’s recordhigh after dropping sharply in June.
IV-20
Labor market conditions remain tight. The official claims-based unemployment
rate remained at 3.1 percent in August, near a record low. Even so, the twelve-month rate of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage interest payments)remained below the Bank of England’s 2½ percent target in August at1.9 percent. The twelve-month growt h rate of average earnings rose to
4.2 percent in July.
InCanada , real GDP increased 4.3 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter,
following an upwardly revised 6.2 percent g ain in the first quarter. Inventories
contributed strongly to growth, as firms restocked following three quarters of
sizable inventory drawdowns. Net expor ts subtracted from growth, as imports
surged. Final domestic demand grew steadily at 3.7 percent, supported bycontinued strength in the home-building sector and a 20.6 percent surge inbusiness investment in machinery and equipment. Monthly real GDP data byindustry show some slowing of growth in recent months to 1.4 percent and1.7 percent (s.a.a.r.) in June and July respectively.
Canadian Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001200112001 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
GDP 3.5 .8 -.5 2.9 6.2 4.3
Total domestic demand 2.6 -.3 -.7 -3.8 6.0 10.0
Consumption 3.4 2.2 -.3 4.1 2.8 3.0Investment 3.6 -1.6 8.7 -13.9 8.7 7.8Government consumption 3.4 2.1 1.9 .9 1.2 1.2Inventories
2-.8 -1.6 -2.4 -3.4 2.2 5.7
Exports 4.7 -6.1 -7.0 -.6 5.4 1.8Imports 2.2 -9.2 -7.0 -16.9 4.3 16.8Net exports
21.2 .9 -.3 6.6 .7 -4.9
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Other recent indicators suggest that the Canadian economy is continuing to grow
at a steady rate. Manufacturing shipments jumped 12.6 percent (s.a.a.r) in July,
led by the increased production of motor ve hicles. New orders, however, fell
during the month, as did the number of unfilled orders. Housing starts in July
IV-21
and August remain near the 12-year high reached early this year. Auto sales have
also remained robust, with July’s sales only slightly below the record numbers of
late last year.
The unemployment rate decreased to 7.5 percent in August. Employment has
grown 2.6 percent over the first eight months of 2002, the largest eight-monthincrease since 1994. Employment growth in the manufacturing and construction
sectors has been particularly robust over the course of the year. The twelve-
month rate of consumer price inflation in July rose to 2.1 percent from1.3 percent in June, with most of the incr ease attributable to a rise in energy and
cigarette prices, as well as higher automobile insurance premiums. The twelve-month rate of core price inflation, ex cluding food and energy prices, rose to
2.9 percent in July from 2.6 percent in June.
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul. Aug.
GDP by industry .4 1.4 1.2 .1 .1 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production -1.1 2.4 1.7 -.6 -.1 n.a. n.a.New mfg. orders -4.8 4.7 3.7 -.6 .0 -.5 n.a.Retail sales 2.6 2.6 .8 -1.1 1.8 n.a. n.a.Employment .1 .7 .9 .2 .4 .1 .4Unemployment rate
17.7 7.8 7.6 7.7 7.5 7.6 7.5
Consumer prices21.1 1.5 1.3 1.0 1.3 2.1 n.a.
Consumer attitudes3114.7 125.0 125.5 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence3117.6 141.5 145.2 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
The Bank of Canada left its target for the overnight rate, its key policy rate,
unchanged at 2.75 percent following its September 4 meeting date, citing
concerns over growth prospects in the United States and other countries. The
decision ended a string of rate hikes totaling 75 basis points, the most recent onJuly 16, that had reversed part of the cu mulative reduction of 375 basis points
that began in 2001. However, the Bank noted that the Canadian economy is
IV-22
approaching its production capacity an d further rate hikes are likely to be
necessary going forward.
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul.
Japan
Trade 45.9 72.4 86.1 86.1 101.2 68.5
Current account 98.5 117.5 120.6 121.5 133.9 128.7
Euro area
Trade191.1 61.2 90.9 94.6 122.6 n.a.
Current account138.4 39.2 -5.3 1.1 44.7 n.a.
Germany
Trade 91.3 112.6 107.8 113.3 111.3 126.4Current account 25.5 36.9 43.7 42.8 46.1 5.7
France
Trade .8 1.1 1.9 2.6 1.4 4.3Current account 4.1 3.6 4.0 5.0 6.7 n.a.
Italy
Trade 15.3 5.6 9.6 13.5 8.3 n.a.Current account
17.5 -9.3 -13.9 -19.0 -7.6 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -48.4 -45.0 -38.2 -27.1 -50.2 -46.0Current Account -37.3 32.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 32.8 34.9 35.2 35.4 29.8 n.a.Current Account 11.2 13.3 12.6 ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
IV-23
IV-24
IV-25
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Economic conditions in South America remain extremely fragile. No signs of
recovery have emerged in Argentina and Ve nezuela. In Brazil, financial markets
have stabilized somewhat over the intermeeting period, but the high level ofuncertainty is taking a toll on economic activity. In contrast, growth in Mexicoturned decidedly positive in the second quarter, led by strong exports. Inemerging Asia, all countries experien ced positive growth in the second quarter,
and recent readings from economic indi cators suggest that recovery has
continued. With the notable exceptions of Argentina and Venezuela, inflation
has generally remained under control.
InBrazil , real GDP growth in the second quarter slowed to 2.4 percent (s.a.a.r.),
but was supported by strong agricultural output. Indicators for the third quarter
have pointed to a weakening in activity, as the country’s access to credit at homeand abroad remains tightly constrained. Industrial output was flat in July, and
unemployment edged above 8 percent. Tw elve-month inflation ticked down in
August to about 7½ percent, running above the 5½ percent upper limit of the
government’s inflation target range for 2002. The trade surplus has beenincreasing in recent months in response to the weakening economy, thedepreciation of the real, and the easing of a customs strike.
During August, concerns rose over the lack of foreign credit for the Brazilian
private sector, whose external obligations coming due in the next few months farexceed those of the government. These concerns prompted Finance MinisterMalan and Central Bank President Fraga to meet with representatives of16 major international banks in late August, resulting in a statement from thebanks promising to maintain their “gen eral level” of business to Brazil. The
government has continued to shorten the ma turity structure of its large domestic
debt in an effort to contain the costs of refinancing that debt.
Observers remain concerned that oppositio n party presidential candidates, if
elected in October, may not adhere to the conditions of a new $30 billion IMFloan for Brazil; the loan was approved by the Fund’s executive board onSeptember 6. About $5-6 billion will be rel eased this year and the remainder
next year, assuming that the new governme nt (which will take office in January)
adheres to fiscal and monetary disciplin e. Lula of the Workers Party continues
to have a commanding lead in the opi nion polls, but Serra, the candidate
preferred by most market participants , has moved up in the polls since early
September. The first round of the elec tion will occur October 6; if no candidate
wins a simple majority of the votes, a second round election between the two topcontenders will be held October 27.
IV-26
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP13.8 -.6 3.5 2.4 ... ... ...
Industrial production 6.6 1.5 2.7 1.4 .9 .0 n.a.Unemployment rate
27.1 6.2 7.3 7.9 7.9 8.1 n.a.
Consumer prices36.0 7.7 7.6 7.8 7.7 7.6 7.3
Trade balance4-.7 2.6 4.6 1.9 2.4 12.5 23.3
Current account5-24.6 -23.2 -12.9 -20.4 -15.5 -6.6 n.a.
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent. “Open” unemployment rate.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec. Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
InArgentina , economic indicators turned down again in July. Industrial
production declined 2.4 percent, leaving output 13 percent below its level a year
earlier and 25 percent below its 1998 peak . Sales and consumer confidence also
declined in July. The extremely w eak economy and suppr essed utilities prices
helped restrain consumer price infla tion. The CPI rose 2.3 percent (s.a.) in
August, bringing the twelve-month increase to over 36 percent, whereas thewholesale price index was up 108 per cent on a twelve-month basis. Economic
weakness and capital controls have led t o an increase in the trade surplus; in
J u l y ,o nat w e l v e - m o n t hb a s i s ,e x p o r ts were down 6 percent, but imports were
down more than 50 percent.
Negotiations between the Argentine government and the IMF on a new
stabilization program have remained at an impasse. The Argentine governmentsubmitted a letter of intent in mid-Aug ust, but the Fund voiced concerns about
its inadequate monetary and fiscal fra mework and about the lack of a plan for
returning the insolvent banking system to financial health. Developments inArgentina over the second half of Augu st reinforced these concerns. First,
congress approved several banking meas ures that extended protection for bank
debtors. Second, rulings by the Suprem e Court, which has been in conflict with
the Duhalde government for months, continue to undermine efforts by thegovernment to achieve fiscal balance and stabilize the banking system. Finally,reports indicate that various provinces w ill continue to issue their own quasi-
monies to finance their fiscal deficits.
IV-27
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP1-1.9 -10.5 -21.8 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -1.8 -5.1 -3.4 -.8 1.5 -2.4 n.a.Unemployment rate
215.1 17.4 ... 21.3 ... ... ...
Consumer prices3-.7 -1.5 4.2 23.3 28.4 32.9 36.5
Trade balance42.6 7.5 16.6 n.a. 16.2 16.8 n.a.
Current account5-8.9 -4.6 6.0 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. Data are released for May and October only. Figures for Q2 reflect data
for May.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
InMexico , real GDP rose 4.7 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter following
six consecutive quarters of output declin es. The recovery in large part owes to a
revival of external demand; on a seasona lly-adjusted basis Mexican exports rose
about 5 percent (not annualized) in the sec ond quarter and a further 2 percent in
July. The strength of exports also help ed to narrow the current account deficit.
However, industrial production was flat in July and this, together with asignificant decline in business confidence in August, suggests that growth mayhave softened some from its sec ond-quarter pace. In recent months,
twelve-month CPI inflation has been a b it over the government’s 4½ percent
target for this year, reflecting in part the depreciation of the peso.
IV-28
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP14.9 -1.5 -.0 4.7 ... ... ...
Overall economic activity 6.5 -.2 .5 1.4 .2 n.a. n.a.Industrial production 6.0 -3.4 .6 1.4 -.3 0.0 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.2 2.5 2.7 2.7 2.6 2.9 n.a.
Consumer prices39.0 4.4 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.5 5.3
Trade balance4-8.0 -10.0 -9.1 -8.2 -8.7 -7.4 n.a.
Imports4174.5 168.4 164.2 170.4 170.4 172.4 n.a.
Exports4166.5 158.4 155.1 162.2 161.7 165.1 n.a.
Current account5-18.1 -17.9 -15.2 -12.0 ... .... ...
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
TheVenezuelan economy is mired in a deep recession. Output plunged over
22 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter. Declines were widespread, butparticularly sizable in the oil, auto, a nd construction sectors. The second-quarter
decline likely reflects the impact of Ap ril’s attempted coup, but political tensions
have remained high and there is little evidence of a subsequent pick-up inactivity. The increase in oil prices ove r the past several months has proved
insufficient to satisfy the government’s hefty financing requirements, which are
estimated by the government to be ar ound 7 percent of GDP in 2002. So far this
year, the government has had significant problems placing and rolling overdomestic debt and has been unable to issue debt internationally. The bolivar hasdepreciated 7 percent since the last G reenbook and has fallen 45 percent since
floating in mid-February. Consumer pr ices have risen 24 percent in the twelve
months ended August.
IV-29
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP15.7 .9 -15.3 -22.1 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 13.3 15.5 15.8 16.2 n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices313.4 12.3 14.6 18.9 19.6 22.0 24.2
Non-oil trade balance4-10.3 -12.2 -11.1 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance417.5 9.4 7.3 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account513.4 4.1 .3 6.7 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
TheKorean expansion, while still robust, showed some signs of moderating
over the intermeeting period. Real GDP grew 5.6 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the secondquarter, down from the faster pace in the first quarter; consumption and exportgrowth were solid, but investment wa s weak. Industrial production in July
rebounded only partially from its drop in J une. (An election day holiday, labor
strikes, and World Cup fever held down June’s figure.) In August, businesssentiment improved, but remained below levels earlier this year, and consumerconfidence slid for the second month i n a row. Strong export growth in July was
more than matched by a rise in imports, leading to a smaller trade surplus andvirtually erasing the current account surplus. The unemployment rate has heldsteady at around 3 percent recently, and consumer price inflation through Augustremained well within the central bank’s 2 to 4 percent target range.
IV-30
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP15.1 4.4 7.8 5.6 ... ... ...
Industrial production 16.9 1.7 1.5 2.1 -3.6 1.9 n.a.Unemployment rate
24.1 3.7 3.0 3.1 3.0 3.0 3.1
Consumer prices32.8 3.2 2.5 2.7 2.6 2.1 2.4
Trade balance416.9 13.4 19.2 14.4 17.1 8.2 n.a.
Current account512.2 8.6 7.0 7.3 9.9 .3 n.a.
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
Since the last Greenbook, data from the ASEAN region show a further pick-up
in growth. Both Singapore and Indonesia r egistered double-digit second-quarter
growth rates, and the pace of expansio n stepped up sharply in Malaysia and the
Philippines as well. Some one-time factors, such as surges in agricultural outputin Indonesia and the Philippines and a significant boost from governmentspending in Singapore, were at least p artly responsible for the very strong
performance.
Recent industrial production numbers ha ve been encouraging, and the trade
balances of the most export-dependent c ountries, Singapore and Malaysia, have
been supported by rising exports. Trade performance has been mixed in the restof the region, with rising imports roughl y offsetting rising exports in Indonesia
and the Philippines, and a surge in imports leading to a trade deficit for Thailandin July. Inflation has remained s ubdued in most of the region. Indonesia
remains the outlier, with twelve-mont h inflation above 10 percent, but this is
down from rates earlier this year.
IV-31
ASEAN Economic Indicators: Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 May June July
Real GDP1
Indonesia 7.3 1.2 4.1 10.0 ... ... ...
Malaysia 6.2 -.6 4.3 7.0 ... ... ...Philippines 3.7 3.9 -.2 9.7 ... ... ...Singapore 11.4 -6.4 8.1 13.6 ... ... ...Thailand 3.4 2.0 6.6 6.1 ... ... ...
Industrial production
2
Indonesia311.6 .7 .4 -2.0 -1.3 1.0 n.a.
Malaysia 19.1 -4.1 2.1 2.4 .1 -1.7 4.1Philippines 2.4 -6.6 5.3 5.4 -3.2 -3.1 n.a.Singapore 15.3 -11.6 6.8 10.7 2.7 -2.2 0.0Thailand 3.3 1.3 2.0 3.2 .4 -1.8 3.1
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indicators: Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Indonesia 28.6 25.4 26.7 28.3 28.9 26.2 n.a.
Malaysia 16.1 14.3 14.9 12.1 14.3 14.9 n.a.Philippines 6.7 2.6 4.9 .8 .5 n.a. n.a.Singapore 3.3 5.8 6.2 5.8 4.8 13.2 11.8Thailand 5.5 2.5 3.6 3.3 6.0 -3.5 n.a.
n.a. Not available.
IV-32
ASEAN Economic Indicators: CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20001200112002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Indonesia 9.3 12.5 14.5 12.6 11.5 10.0 10.6
Malaysia 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.9 2.1 2.1 n.a.Philippines 6.7 4.1 3.6 3.4 3.0 2.6 2.9Singapore 2.1 -.6 -.8 -.4 .2 -.4 n.a.Thailand 1.4 .8 .6 .2 .2 .1 .3
1. December/December.
n.a. Not available.
TheChinese economy has continued to grow at a rapid pace. The strong
performance of the economy so far this y ear appears to have resulted mainly
from surging investment and robust export growth. Nominal fixed investmentrose 25 percent in the first half of the year over the same period a year earlier,reflecting strong public sector spending an d inflows of foreign direct investment.
Consumption, as measured by retail sa les data, also appears to be holding up
well. China continues to experience def lation, however, with consumer prices
down nearly 1 percent from year-ago levels.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP18.0 7.5 8.5 9.3 ... ... ...
Industrial production211.4 8.9 8.2 12.5 12.4 12.8 12.7
Consumer prices21.5 -.3 -.6 -1.1 -.8 -.9 n.a.
Trade balance324.1 23.1 40.3 29.9 45.4 12.6 3.9
1. Annual rate. Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates.
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier. Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate. Imports are c.i.f.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
IV-33
InHong Kong , growth of real GDP edged up to 1.6 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the
second quarter, but economic conditions remain weak. Consumption declined
nearly 4 percent in the second quarter. Stagnant retail sales and weak consumerconfidence in July suggest that a rebound in consumption is not imminent.Consumer prices continued to fall thr ough July, and unemployment remained
high through August. Hong Kong’s trade deficit has widened in recent months,owing mainly to increased imports, many of which are destined for re-export.Hong Kong remains highly dependent on the external sector, though its role as
an entrepot is being increasingly challenged by China’s continuing integrationinto the world economy.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP17.0 -1.4 0.8 1.6 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate25.1 4.9 7.0 7.7 7.7 7.8 7.6
Consumer prices3-2.1 -3.5 -2.6 -3.2 -3.4 -3.5 n.a.
Trade balance4-11.0 -11.4 -4.5 -7.8 -10.6 -10.3 n.a.
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent. Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate. Imports are c.i.f.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
Real economic activity in Taiwan increased only slightly in the second quarter,
but the low rate of growth owed mainly to a negative arithmetic contributionfrom a surge in imports. Final domestic demand advanced 4 percent in thesecond quarter. Indicators for July ha ve been mixed; exports moved down, but
industrial production and foreign inve stment rose. Exports weakened a bit
further in August, but a larger drop in imports led to a widening of the tradebalance. Consumer prices in August retraced much of July’s increase, asweather-related effects on food prices abated.
IV-34
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP13.9 -1.6 6.2 .3 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate23.0 4.6 5.3 5.2 5.2 5.0 n.a.
Industrial production 7.4 -7.3 3.8 6.0 -5.4 2.6 n.a.Consumer prices
31.7 -1.7 -.1 .0 .1 .4 -.3
Trade balance48.3 15.6 22.9 16.3 17.2 11.5 18.1
Current account58.9 18.9 29.1 24.3 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate. Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.