 
Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most complete and accurate version 
available based on original copies culled from  the files of the FOMC Secretariat at the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserv e System.  This electronic document was 
created through a comprehensiv e digitization process which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned versions 
text-searchable.2  Though a stringent quality assurance process was employed, some 
imperfections may remain.  
Please note that this document may contain occasional gaps in the text.  These 
gaps are the result of a re daction process that removed information obtained on a 
confidential basis.  All redact ed passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable 
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.    
 
                                                
 
1 In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic format.  All 
scanned images were deskewed (to remove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced tilting) and lightly 
cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other blemishes caused after initial 
printing). 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optimal character recognition computer program (OCR) first 
created electronic text from the document image.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.   Please note that the numbers and text in charts and tables were not 
reliably recognized by the OCR process and we re not checked or corrected by staff. 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                   January 23, 2002
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                    January 23, 2002
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developm ents
Overview 
Economic  activity  appears to have contracted a bit further in the fourth quarter 
after having  dropped at an annual rate of 1.3 pe rcent in the third quarter. Final 
sales likely post ed a m oderat e gain last quart er, as consum er out lays accel erated 
sharply  and business purchases of equipm ent and sof tware leveled off after two 
quarters of steep decline. However, th is pickup in final sales was met by  a 
further deepening  in the ong oing liquida tion of inventories. Looking  ahead, 
some recent data sug gest that the economy  may  be bottoming  out. In the 
manufacturing  sector, producti on fell less steeply  in December than in previous 
months, and the available indicators sug gest that an upturn could be near. More 
broadl y, employment losses i n Decem ber were m uch sm aller than t hose earl ier 
in the quarter, ag gregate hours of pr oduction or nonsupervisory  workers were 
unchanged last month, a nd initia l claims f or unemploy ment insur ance have 
fallen sig nificantly below the ir levels in la te Nove mber. Meanwhile , inflation 
has been held down by  falling  energ y prices and widespread discounting  of 
goods prices. 
Labor Mark et Develop ments 
The labor market deteriorated further last month, as private nonfarm pay rolls 
dropped 187,000 and the unemploy ment rate  rose 0.2 percentag e point, to 
5.8 percent. However, the decline in em ployment was less se vere than in the 
preceding  two months, and ag gregate hours of production or nonsupervisory 
workers on private nonfarm pay rolls held  steady  in December, the first month 
since May  that hours did not decline. 
December’s level of ag gregate hours wa s held up by  an increase in the 
workweek, whic h after two c onsecutive  monthly  gains ha s climbe d back to 
34.2 hours, a level last seen in J uly. With a 0.4 hour jump in December, the 
manufacturing  workweek, one of the C onference Board’s l eading indicators, 
reversed i ts decl ines over t he three precedi ng months and ret urned t o its Aug ust 
level. The ri se in the fact ory workweek occurred i n concert  with a cut  in 
manufacturing  jobs of 133,000. History  indicates that the workweek in the 
manufacturing  sector often beg ins rising from  recessi onary  lows whi le 
manufacturing employment is still de clining . 
Althoug h the unemploy ment rate conti nued to climb in December, other 
indicators from the household survey  were also hinting  at a slowing  in the pace 
of reductions in jobs and hours toward year-end. The percentag e of job losers 
unem ployed for fewer t han fi ve weeks (a prox y for t he layoff rat e) fell for t he 
second consecutive month in December afte r having  peaked in October. In 
addition, the proportion of employ ed pe rsons working  part-time for economic 
reasons ha s changed little  since October after having risen precipitously  during 
the precedi ng two months. 
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
Recent data on initial claims for unemp loyment insurance and the insured 
unemploy ment rate point to a furthe r moderation in pay roll employ ment 
declines in January. The four-week moving  average of initia l claims ( based on 
FRB seasonals) for the week e nded J anuary  12 was 404,000, nearly  34,000 
below the  level a month e arlier, and the  insur ed une mploy ment rate for the 
week ended J anuary  5 was 2.7 percent, 0.2 percentag e point below the level in 
mid-Decem ber.1 
Other indicators of labor mark et activity  have either leveled off or beg un to turn 
up of  late. According to the  prelimina ry Michigan Sur vey Research Center 
(SRC) survey , expectations of future em ployment prospects increased sharply  in 
January , following increases i n Decem ber report ed by both the Mi chigan and 
Conference Board survey s. The Nat ional Federation of I ndependent B usiness 
report ed that hiring plans rem ained depressed i n Decem ber but  that the 
percentage of firms finding  job ope nings difficult to f ill tic ked back up la st 
month after having  declined in November. 
Indust rial P roduc tion 
Output in the industrial sector continued to contract in December, but the rate of 
decline was not as steep as in previous  months. Both tota l industrial production 
and manufacturing  output edg ed down 0.1 percent last month after larg er 
declines in October and November. For the fourth quarter as a whole, industrial 
output dropped at an annual ra te of 7.2 percent after de clining  4.7 percent in the 
third quarter. Production ha s fallen about 7 percent since the most recent peak 
in June 2000, 2-1/2 percentag e points mo re than the 4-1/2 percent cumulative 
drop during  the 1990-91 recession. 
The motor vehicle industry  was one of several that showed an increase in 
production in December. The output of  motor vehicles and parts increased 
4.1 percent, as assemblies rose to an  exceptionally  high rate of 12.3 million 
units, more than a million units above the averag e assembly  rate in October and 
1. As in years p ast, week-to-week changes in the lev el of seaso nally adjusted initial claim s 
around the Christmas and New  Year h oliday s have been  quite larg e. Using seasonal adj ustment 
factors developed by the Board’s staf f helps to reduce th is volatility  because FRB  seaso nals are 
allowed to evolve more rap idly over tim e. FRB -adjusted initial claim s have fluctuated between 
385,000 an d 420,000 ov er the most recen t four-week period, w hile B LS-adjusted in itial claim s 
have fluctuated bet ween 386,000 an d 451,000. 
Recen t week-to-week movements in initial claim s may also have been influenced by an 
increase in  unemployment benefits in  Calif ornia for those claim ants filing after January 6. The 
rise in  benefits provided an incentive for some individuals to  delay filing until after January 6, 
and may have held down initial claim s before this date an d increased  them in the most recen t 
week. Usin g seaso nal factors developed by the Board’s staf f, seaso nally adjusted initial claim s 
rose 12,000 i n California for the week ended Jan uary 12. 
II-6
II-7
November. The strong  pace of produc tion in December likely  was a response 
by the automakers to the surprising ly robust sales in the preceding  two months. 
Produc tion of  Dom estic Autos and Tr ucks 
(Millio ns of units  at an annua l rate except as noted; FRB s easonal basis) 
Item 2001 2002 2001 2002 
Q3 Q4 Q11 Nov. Dec. Jan. 1 Feb.1 
U.S. pr oduction 11.6 11.6 11.9 11.8 12.3 12.4 11.9 
Autos  4.7  4.8  5.3  4.9  5.1  5.3 5.4 
Trucks  6.9  6.8  6.7  6.9  7.2  7.1 6.5 
Days' supply2 
Autos  49.1 38.3 n.a. 37.7 47.4 n.a. n.a. 
Ligh t trucks3 74.0 52.3 n.a. 55.1 57.6 n.a. n.a. 
Inventories4 2.69 2.27 n.a.  2.24 2.27 n.a. n.a. 
Note. C omponents may not sum to totals  becau se of rounding. 
1. Production  rates  reflect W ard’s Communication s’ lates t estimates for Nov ember an d 
schedules for Decem ber an d the first quarter. 
2. Qu arterly  average calcu lated u sing end-of-period stocks and average report ed sales. 
3. Ex cludes medium and heavy (classes 3-8) trucks. 
4. En d-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy (class 3-8) trucks. 
n.a. Not av ailable. 
Another relatively  bright spot in indus trial production was the output of hig h-
tech g oods, which rose 0.3 percent in D ecember. The increase was led by  a 
pickup in the production of semic onductors; output of communications 
equipment continued to slide, while out put of computers posted a moderate g ain 
of 0.7 percent. For the fourth quarter as a whole, production of hig h-tech g oods 
ticked up slig htly, the first qua rterly increase in this c ategory in a year and a 
sharp reversal from the double-dig it declin es recorded in each of the previous 
three quart ers. 
Outside of hig h tech and motor vehi cles, production cutbacks were widespread 
last month, with the most pronoun ced weakness evident in consumer 
nondurables and business equipment. Within business equipment, the larg est 
declines were in commercial aircraft  and aircraft equipment, industrial 
machinery, and farm  machinery and equi pment. Among  the consumer durables 
categ ories not previously  discussed, pr oduction of appliances, furniture, and 
carpeting  rose for the second month in a row. 
II-8
II-9
Althoug h manufacturing  production fell shar ply over the fourth quarter as a 
whol e, there are som e tentative indications that a recovery  of sorts mig ht be in 
the offing . Real adjusted durable g oods  orders increased noticeably  in October 
and November. Moreover, the new orde rs index  from the I nstitute for Supply 
Management (ISM; f ormerly the Nationa l Association of Purc hasing  Manag ers) 
survey , whi ch has predi ctive power for near-t erm chang es in manufact uring, 
increased sharpl y in Decem ber, m oving into the reg ion associ ated wi th an 
expansion in ma nufacturing activity  for the first time  in thr ee months;2 the 
latest B usiness Outlook Survey  from the Federal Reserve B ank of Philadelphia 
showe d a simila rly sharp rise in January. 
New  Orders for Du rable Good s 
(Percen t change from p receding period; season ally adjusted) 
Component Share, 
2001: H1 2001 
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov. 
Total orders 100.0 -2.3 -5.1 -9.2 12.4 -4.8 
Adjus ted orders1 73.0 -4.2 -5.7 -9.8 5.3 2.2 
Computers 5.0 -14.0 -19.4 -7.0 18.7 2.7 
Communications equipment 4.0 -26.3 -16.6 -39.8 51.5 .1 
Semiconduc tors and related 
devices 4.0 -19.4 -3.4 17.1 -16.7 2.3 
Other cap ital good s 24.0 -2.8 -5.3 -6.4 -.3 3.7 
Other2 37.0 .5 -3.4 -11.9 7.1 1.4 
Memo: 
Real adjusted orders  . . . -3.4 -4.8 -9.3 5.5 2.4 
Excluding high tech  . . . -1.3 -13.9 -9.8 4.2 2.1 
1. Orders excluding defense capi tal goods , nondefense aircraf t, and motor vehicle part s. 
2. Includes prim ary metals, most fabricated m etals, most stone, clay , and glass produ cts, 
household appl iances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods . 
. . . Not applicable. 
Weekly  production data throug h January 19 sug gest that the weekly  aggregate, 
whic h ma kes up ne arly one-fifth of the IP inde x, will c ontribute roughly 
0.2 percentag e point to the chang e in tota l IP this month; in particular, weekly 
steel production and electricity  generation were up noticeably  in the first three 
weeks of the month. Steel capability  utilization rates have reached their hig hest 
level since the week ending  September 8, 2000. 
2. In the ISM s urvey, index values greater th an 50 ty pically  are as sociated w ith an increas e 
in manufacturing activ ity. 
II-10
II-11
Capacity  utiliz ation in manufacturing  edged down to 72.8 percent in December. 
Despite the anemic rate of capacity  expansion in 2001, utiliz ation rates dropped 
precipitously  throug hout the y ear, and the averag e rate in the fourth quarter was 
its lowest since 1983; the drop in utiliz ation has been sharpest in the hig h-tech 
sector. In contrast to manufacturing , an increase in capacity  at utilities in 2001 
was the strong est since 1974, reflecting  producers’ response to the sig nificant 
shortfall in g enerating capacity that had opened up in the western states over the 
past y ear or so. According ly, capac ity utiliz ation at utilities in December was 
12.7 percentag e points below the mo st recent peak, in December 2000. 
Motor Veh icles 
Purchases of l ight vehi cles moved l ower ag ain in Decem ber, but  the pace of 
sales—at an annual rate  of 16-1/4 million units—was still above the third-
quart er averag e. For t he fourt h quart er as a whole, sales of automobiles and 
light trucks rose to an  annual rate of 18.4 million un its—a historical hig h. 
Dem and for m otor vehi cles has been bol stered i n recent  months by  a cont inued 
high level of incentives. Manufacturers s caled incent ives back a bi t last month, 
but they appear rel uctant to cut  them too subst antially, likely because of 
concerns about the underly ing streng th of vehicle demand and the drop-off in 
sales vol ume that they presum e woul d ensue i f incent ives abrupt ly returned t o 
more normal levels.5 The Michig an Survey  index  of car-buy ing conditions shot 
up over the final months of last y ear—buoy ed by  highly favorable consumer 
assessments of motor vehicle prices and financing  rates. In early  January , the 
index  eased a bit as respondents ex pressed some dissatisf action with current 
financing rates after automa kers remove d zero percent rates from ma ny mode ls. 
Most  of the decl ine in light vehi cle sales in Decem ber cam e in retail purchases, 
which had spiked in October and th en dropped back some in November. 
Howe ver, confidential data from a utoma kers indicate that fleet sales also m oved 
lower in December and were down 1/2 million units (annual rate) in the fourth 
quarter. With demand for travel dow n, some rental car companies have 
aggressive ly trimme d the  size of their fleets. In contrast, busine ss pur chases of 
medium a nd he avy trucks rose in the  fourth qua rter for the first time  since the 
fourth quarter of 1999, and on a three-m onth moving  averag e basis, net new 
orders for medium and heavy trucks ticked up in December. 
5. On January 2, G M ended zero percen t financing and beg an offering rebat es of $2,002 on 
many models. Other models were elig ible for reduced-rate financing plus a smaller cas h rebate. 
These offers are scheduled to run through Fe bruary 28. Ford has extended its zero percent 
financing on thirty-six-month loan s until March  5 an d has offered cas h rebates  of $1,000 to 
$2,500 depen ding on the model. DaimlerChrysler’s zero percen t prog ram ended on  January 8. 
Currently, incentives on its vehicles vary by region and by model. 
II-12
II-13
With sa les at record levels, inventories of lig ht vehicle s fell substa ntially in the 
fourth qua rter. Stocks of  light ve hicles are estimated to ha ve declined to 
2-1/4 million units last quart er—the lowest level sin ce the first quarter of 1992. 
The day s’ supply  of lig ht vehicles st ood at fifty -four day s in December, 
relatively  lean compared with desire d levels of about six ty-five day s. 
Althoug h the B ig Three automakers continue  to ex pect sales to drop in the first 
quarter, their latest production plans call for a robust assembly  rate of 
11.9 million units, a shade above the averag e for the fourth quarter. If these 
schedules are maintained and sa les fall back, inventories would likely  move up 
sharpl y in the near t erm.6 
Consum er Spending 
Avai lable dat a indicate that the pace of consum er spendi ng was wel l maintained 
throug h the end of last y ear. Real personal consumption ex penditures are now 
expected to have risen at an annual rate  of 4-3/4 percent in the fourth quarter, 
mainly on the aforem entioned st rength of m otor vehi cle sales. Moreover, recent 
report s from  chai n stores sug gest that their sales, whi ch exceeded ex pectations 
in Decem ber, have al so hel d up wel l throug h the first three weeks of J anuary . 
Althoug h total nominal reta il sales declined 0.1 percen t in December, spending 
in the nom inal retail cont rol category—whi ch excludes aut o deal ers and 
building  material and supply  stores—edg ed up last month, and revised data for 
Novem ber show a not iceabl y smaller decl ine than had been previ ously 
estimated. Within r etail control, sa les at stores in the  GAF  category (general 
merchandise, apparel, a nd furniture and applian ce stores) posted another 
noticeabl e gain in Decem ber, despi te rather g loomy report s from  retail anal ysts 
during  the Christmas season. In contra st, nominal retail sales at g asoline 
stations fel l further in Decem ber, l ikely because of l ower ret ail gasoline pri ces. 
On the  basis of  these retail sales data and inf ormation showing  substa ntial price 
declines for g oods, we estimate that r eal PCE for g oods ex cluding  autos and 
trucks increased about 3/4 percent, on averag e, in November and December. 
According  to the most recent data, ou tlays on services rose 0.2 percent in 
Novem ber, as i ncreases i n expendi tures for medical services, personal business 
servi ces, and recreat ion servi ces m ore than offset a siz able drop in spending  on 
energ y services. Althoug h temperat ures on balance remained unseasonably 
warm  in Decem ber, t hey were down from  Novem ber and l ikely led to higher 
spending  on energ y services last month. In contrast, slig ht decreases in stock 
6. Ford recen tly announced a res tructuring plan  that involves closing at leas t three dom estic 
assem bly plants in addition to some parts plants. No domestic assem bly plant will be closed 
before the September 2003 ex piration of the current labor con tract with the United Auto 
Workers, but Ford cou ld slow the line speed an d drop s ome produ ction shifts as early as March . 
Ford plan s to clos e some parts  plan ts within the year. 
II-14
II-15
market trading  volumes last month pr obably  served to damp ex penditures on 
personal business services. 
On the income side, private wag es and salaries appear t o have advanced in 
Decem ber aft er a sm all decl ine in Novem ber. Moreover, t he overal l rise in real 
disposable personal income last y ear was well above that seen in previous 
recessions, aided both by  last summer’s tax cuts and by  the rapid decline in 
consumer energ y prices throug h the e nd of the y ear. Meanwhile, the pickup in 
equity  values over the fourth qua rter is estimated to ha ve raised the  ratio of 
household net worth to disposable income to  close to the level it reg istered at the 
end of 2000. 
Sentiment survey s also point to an improvement in the consumer outlook. 
According to the  prelimina ry report, the  Michigan Sur vey Research Center’s 
index of consume r sentime nt move d up a gain in J anuary after having poste d a 
series of m odest  increases si nce m id-September, and t he Conference Board’s 
index  of consumer confidence popped up in  December, interrupting  a string  of 
declines. Althoug h assessments of current conditions remain relatively 
pessimistic , both sur veys have shown c ontinue d impr ovements sinc e late last 
summer in consumers’ ex pectations about future conditions. 
Housing Mark ets 
The pace of homebuilding  eased slig htly last quarter. Althoug h sing le-family 
starts are estimated to have moved up in Decembe r to an annual rate of 
1.29 million units, the averag e pace of starts  for the fourth quarter as a whole 
was down about 6 percent (a nnual rate) from the third-quarter pace. Meanwhile, 
multifamily  starts were down sharply  in December from November’s elevated 
level, leaving  the fourth-quarter pace little  chang ed from that of the third. The 
available building -permits da ta—whic h are typically less erratic than the  starts 
data—pa inted a slightly softer picture of sing le-family activity  but a  some what 
stronger one of the multif amily sector. 
The underly ing trajectory  of starts has been obscured by  the fallout from the 
terrorist attacks—whic h like ly restrained building  in Oc tober—and 
unseasonably  warm and dry  weathe r—which likely  boosted activity  in 
Novem ber and Decem ber. The ex act cont ributions of t hese event s are 
uncertain, but it is clear that low mortg age rates helped keep the housing  market 
relatively  strong  throug h the end of the year despi te the weakeni ng job m arket. 
Althoug h the pace of starts was well maintained in 2001, the averag e nominal 
cost of newl y started hom es decel erated sharpl y over t he year, cont ributing to a 
decel eration in the overal l pace of bot h nom inal and real  residential invest ment. 
In particular, industry  anecdotes sug gest that at least part of the deceleration in 
II-16
II-17
II-18
II-19
the cost pe r sing le-family start owe s to a shift away from c onstr uction of  high-
end homes.7 
New and ex isting  home sales remained br isk throug h November. Althoug h the 
terrorist attacks shook the confidence of  both buy ers and realtors, the effects 
were fleeting , with sale s rebounding  in October and November to their pre-
September levels. Mort gage rates backed up som ewhat  in Decem ber, but  they 
have si nce t urned down ag ain, ret racing all of the Decem ber ri se. Indeed, t he 
Mortg age Bankers Association reported th at mortg age applications for a home 
purchase reached an all-time hig h in th e week ended J anuary  18. In addition, 
respondents to the Michig an Survey continue to perceive homebuy ing 
conditions as relatively favorable in J anuary . 
Business F ixed Investm ent 
Equipm ent and soft ware. Althoug h the data are still incomplete, real 
expenditures on equipment and software appear to have leveled off in the 
fourth quarter, following  substantial declines in both the second and third 
quarters. Some of the imp rovement is attributable to a siz able bounceback in 
business purchases of motor vehicles. Even ex cluding  this erratic sector, 
however, declines in equipment spendi ng seem to have been less pronounced, 
despite  falling busine ss output a nd we ak corporate cash flow. 
Business spending  on hig h-tech equi pment and software looks to have 
registered a small g ain in the four th quarter—a marked turnaround from the 
steep drops posted in the second and thir d quarters. In November, the latest 
month for which we have data, nominal  shipments of com puters and related 
products rose 2.2 percent (not at an a nnual rate), leaving  the averag e pace for 
the October-November period 1.2 percent above that for the third quarter. 
Taking  into account the ong oing steep declines in prices, real computer 
expenditures likely  rose at a double-dig it annual rate last quart er. In contrast, 
declines in ex penditures on communications equipment show no sig ns of 
abating. Shipme nts fell again in N ovember, the eig hth consecutive month of 
decrease, and althoug h orders were flat  in November, the three-month moving 
averag e was down 3.5 percent, setting  the stage for continued softness in this 
category. 
At this point, we  estimate that busine ss expenditur es on a ircraft were little 
chang ed in the fourth quarter. Boeing and Airbus reportedly  delivered 
7. The Cen sus Bureau estim ates th e cost per start u sing new home prices f or homes built for 
sale, co ntract p rices f or homes built for the owner, and an adjustment factor for the cost of land 
and land development. 
II-20
II-21
II-22
II-23
101 planes to domestic airlines last qua rter, similar to the number of deliveries 
in the previous quarter. However, most of the planes delivered last quarter 
were ordered in 2000. Orders have fallen sharpl y since mid-2001, and g iven 
the long  lags between orders and deliver ies, shipme nts of  aircraft are likely to 
be down substantially  this y ear. 
Outside of the hig h-tech and transporta tion se ctors, nomina l shipme nts fell 
2.3 percent in November, and the Oct ober-November averag e was 2.7 percent 
(not at an annual rate) below the thir d-quarter pace. Orders, however, rose 
3.7 percent in November, led by  sizable increases in booking s of new 
machinery, electrical equi pment, ships and boat s, and furni ture. The t hree-
month moving  averag e of orders fell le ss rapidly  in November than in earlier 
months, perhaps sig naling  smaller sp ending  declines in coming  months. 
Nonresidential construction. The incoming  data point to another larg e decline 
in real spending  on private nonresidentia l construction in the fourth quarter, 
Novem ber and Decem ber’s favorabl e weat her not withstanding.8 In particular, 
real outlay s for private nonresidential bu ilding s fell, on net, over the first two 
months of the fourth quarter, leaving  the level of spending  in November down at 
an annual rate of 14-1/4 pe rcent from the third-quarter averag e. By sector, 
spending  has fallen precipitously  in th e industrial building  categ ory, reflecting 
low capacity -utiliz ation rates and rising vacancies. For office building s, for 
which vacancy  rates also m oved up furt her in the fourt h quart er, the level of 
construction in November wa s about 8 percent at an a nnual rate below the third-
quarter averag e. In contrast, spe nding  for other comme rcial constr uction— 
which includes retail, wholesale, and warehouse space—was down only  about 
2 percent in November from the third quarter. 
Real spending  on new drilling  and mining  structures declined at an annual rate 
of 5.3 percent in the third quarter, a nd given the decline in November and 
December in the number of oil and g as drilling  rigs in operation, another drop 
seems to have ensued in the fourth quarter. 
Inventories 
The book value of manufacturing  and tr ade inventories (ex cluding  motor 
vehicles) fell at an annual rate of  $99.9 billion in November following  a 
$92.0 billion liquidation in October. The averag e runoff for the two months was 
8. The level of spending in the third quarter was boos ted by the lease in July of the Worl d 
Trade C enter by  the Port Authority  to th e priv ate sector. The Bureau of Econ omic Analysis 
(BEA) treated th e tran saction  as a pu rchase, rais ing the lev el of private n onresidential 
construction spending in the third qu arter by  $10.7 billion . Reported s pending growth in the 
fourth quarter w ill be restrain ed by an offsetting amount. These acco unting effects are ex actly 
offset in the state an d local g overnment sector; total GDP  is unaffected. 
II-24
II-25
II-26
nearly  $30 billion g reater than the pace of  reduction during  the third quarter and 
the fastest since the beg inning  of the series in the mid-1960s. 
In manufact uring, the pace of l iquidation has been heft y since spri ng, but 
inventory -sales ratio s have remained stubbornly  high. The ratios of inventories 
to shipme nts we re still e levated in Nove mber at manufacturers of metals, 
minerals, lumber, furniture, computers a nd electronics products, machinery , and 
electrical g oods, althoug h in all but the la st two of these categ ories, stock-sales 
ratios are down from  their earl ier peaks. For m anufact uring as a whol e, the rat io 
appears to have declined somewhat in th e first two months of the fourth quarter 
after having  spiked in September. 
The pace of l iquidation at  whol esalers appears t o have st eepened i n recent 
months. The book value of distributors’ inventories (ex cluding  motor vehicles) 
fell at an averag e pace of $37.3 billion in the October-November period, about 
twice the third-quarter rate of reduc tion. As a consequence, the ratio of 
whole salers’ stocks to sa les has diminishe d. None theless, distr ibutor s in se veral 
sectors—such as furni ture, hardware, m achinery , paper, drug s, and chemicals— 
still a ppear to ha ve a worrisome  level of inve ntories relative to sa les. 
The book value of retail inve ntories (ex cluding  stocks held by  auto dealers) 
fell at an annual rate of $20.5 billion in November  after having  declined 
$6.3 billion in October. The averag e decrease for the two months, 
$13.4 billion, was steeper than the small li quidation posted in the third quarter. 
Despite  fairly weak nomina l sales, the inventory -sales ratio edg ed down 
further in November and appeared to  be at a fairly comfortable level. 
Government Expe nditures 
Federal sector.  The budg et position of the federal g overnment  continues to 
deteriorate. According  to the Monthly  Treasury  Statements, the federal budg et 
deficit for the November-December peri od totaled $28 billion, compared with a 
$9 billion sur plus f or the same period la st year. 
The less-favorable budg et outcome owes primarily  to dec lines in revenue, 
althoug h a strong  increase in g overnment ou tlays has also been a factor. On the 
revenue side, receipts during  the N ovember-December period fell 5.2 percent 
relative to a y ear earl ier. Net corporat e recei pts cont inued t heir recent  decl ine, 
falling  33 percent. Individual tax  receipts rose 1.5 percent, reflecting  in part an 
extra Monday , a key  day for pay roll proce ssing , in December. According  to the 
Daily  Treasury  Statements, non-withheld  income tax  receipts for J anuary  2002 
are simila r to those  of last January. 
II-27
II-28

II-29
On the  spending  side, after adjusting  for routine  payment-timing  shifts, outla ys 
in the Novem ber-Decem ber peri od rose 6 percent  over l ast year. National 
defense outlay s rose 8.3 percent, in pa rt because of U.S. military  activity  in 
Afghanista n. Health-related spending  also rose rapidly , with increases of 
9 percent for Medicare and 17.8 percent fo r Medicaid. In contrast, net interest 
payments have continued to fall, a result of  both lowe r shor t-term interest rates 
and declines in the federa l debt over the past y ear. 
After having  failed to reach ag reemen t in December on an economic stimulus 
packag e, Cong ress completed the appropr iations process and adjourned. These 
appropriations bills, which President Bush has sig ned, provide $684 billion in 
non-emerg ency budg et authority  for fis cal y ear 2002, up nearly  8 percent from 
fiscal 2001. The larg est categ ory, defense, is slated to rise more than 8 percent, 
to $317 billion, in fiscal 2002. In add ition, Cong ress appropr iated $20 billion in 
emerg ency funds, the second half of the $40 billion supplemental appropriation 
passed in September. These funds are earmarked primarily  for homeland 
security  initiatives and disaste r-related assistance for New York. 
The Cong ressional B udget Office has rel eased a sum mary of “The Budg et and 
Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2003-2012.”  The full report will be published 
January  31. The CB O now forecasts that in  the absence of future leg islation, the 
federal g overnment will r un small unified deficits in fiscal y ears 2002 and 2003 
before returning  to surplus in fiscal 2004. Over the coming  decade (2002-11), 
the CB O projects a unified surplus of $1.6 trillion, a sig nificant downward 
revision from the $5.6 trillion surplus projected in J anuary  2001. The $4 trillion 
downward revision is attributed to leg islative chang es ($2.4 trillion), chang es in 
economic assumptions ($0.9 trillion), a nd technical factors ($0.7 trillion). 
State an d local govern ments. Despite deteriora ting budg et positions, real 
spending  by state and local g overnments has been quite robust in recent months. 
Employ ment rose 55,000 in December, brin ging the monthly  averag e during  the 
fourth quarter to 35,000, and real cons truction outlay s jumped more than 
6 percent at a monthly  rate in November  following  an even strong er surg e the 
month before. The strong  construc tion a ctivity  in Nove mber, whic h wa s 
widespread across all major component s, was probably  facilitated by  the 
unusually  warm and dry  weather. 
Most  state legislatures beg in their new sessions in J anuary , and many  states that 
have not y et acted will be  forced to de al with pr ojected gaps in the ir general 
fund budg ets. It appears that a variety of strateg ies will be adopted, including 
budg et cuts, transfers from rainy -day funds and funds backed by  tobacco-
settlement mone y, greater-than-expected use  of tax-exempt de bt offerings, and 
some tax  and fee increases. Major sources of budg et pressures include 
heightened securi ty, greater ex pendi tures for Medicaid, and increased pension-
II-30
II-31
funding  requirements resulting  from poor equity  market performance. Adding 
to fiscal concern i s the fact  that welfare rolls in many  states have beg un to 
increase ag ain after having  dropped substantially  during  the 1990s. Official 
statistic s from the  Department of Health and Huma n Services, available only 
through June of last year, indic ate that the numbe r of familie s on we lfare rose in 
twenty-one st ates. Many  of these st ates are in the Midwest and Southeast, the 
same regions for whi ch a sl owing in tax recei pts was fi rst apparent  last winter 
and spri ng. Indications are t hat more st ates ex perienced g rowing welfare rol ls 
as the econom ic weakness spread l ast year. 
Prices and Labor  Costs 
Prices. Inflation dropped back at y ear-end, reflecting  widespread discounting 
and a furt her decl ine in energ y prices. With the pl unge in energ y prices in 
recent  months, the twelve-m onth chang e in the consum er pri ce index  slowed t o 
1.6 percent in 2001, a considerably  smalle r rise than the 3.4 percent increase in 
2000. The core CPI  rose 2.7 percent ove r the twelve months of 2001, a bit 
higher than the rate for 2000. By contra st, the core PCE price index  appears to 
have risen only  about 1.6 percent last y ear (offi cial estimates available 
January  31), down from 1.9 percent in 2000. In December, the overall CP I fell 
0.2 percent, led by  another drop in g asoline prices, while the core CPI  edged up 
0.1 percent after jumping 0.4 percent in November. 
Consumer energ y prices dropped 3.2 per cent last month following  even larg er 
declines in the previous two months. The prices of both motor fuel and 
heating  oil fell about 6 percent in Decem ber. However, survey  data sug gest 
that retail prices of gasoline  turned up in early  January . Elsewhere, the index 
for natural g as declined 2.1 percent la st month, nearly  offsetting  November’s 
rise, and el ectricity rates decreased for t he fifth consecut ive m onth. For t he 
year as a whol e, overal l consum er energ y prices fel l 13 percent , com pared 
with a rise of more than 14 percen t over 2000. Among  components, prices of 
petroleum-based products plung ed last y ear, and na tural g as prices dropped 
considerably  but did not entirely  reve rse their run-up in 2000; only  electricity 
rates increased on balance last y ear, refl ecting  higher coal input costs and tig ht 
generating capacity in the  western region. 
Consumer food prices edg ed down 0.1 pe rcent in December, the same as in 
November. Prices of fresh fruits and veg etables dropped sharply , while 
moderate price declines were posted for many  other categ ories of food at 
home, reflecting  in part the pass-throug h of the sharp declines in farm prices 
last fall to the retail le vel. The index  for food away  from home edg ed up 
slightly in December for the second month following  large increases earlier in 
II-32
II-33
the y ear. Over the twelve months of 2001, the overall index  for food increased 
2.8 percent, the same as in 2000. 
The index  for commodities other than  food and energ y fell 0.3 percent in 
December, continuing  the see-saw move ments broug ht about by  large monthly 
swing s in tobacco prices. Over the twelve months of 2001, core g oods prices 
moved down 0.3 percent, the larg est twelve-month decline in core g oods 
prices in forty  years; ex cluding  tobacco, core g oods prices edg ed down in 
December and declined 3/4 percent last  year. Althoug h discounting  of goods 
was fairly  extensive last month, prices  for new m otor vehi cles increased for 
the third consecutive month and used ve hicle prices turned up after having 
fallen for eig ht months. As a result, increases i n new vehi cle prices in the last 
three months of 2001 offset nearly  all of the decline posted during  the first 
nine months.9 
The CPI  for non-energ y services ro se 0.3 percent last month following 
November’s 0.5 percent increase. This index  has accelerated considerably  over 
the past two y ears; indeed, the tw elve-month chang e in 2001—at 4 percent— 
was t he largest increase i n eight years. Owner' s equivalent re nt and renter’s rent 
rose another 0.4 percent in Decembe r; during  2001, these index es were up 
4-1/2 percent and 4-3/4 percent, respec tively , a marked pickup from their pace 
in 2000. The index  for lodg ing away  from home also increased last month, but 
it remained slig htly lowe r than its y ear-earlier level. Elsewhere, airfares 
declined furt her in Decem ber and are nearl y 4 percent  lower t han a y ear ag o, 
while prices of medical services edg ed up 0.1 percent last month after having 
increased rapidly  in the previous two months. 
In cont rast to the CPI, chang es in core P CE pri ces sl owed l ast year because, 
unlike the CPI , PCE prices for non-energ y services did not accelerate. As a 
result, the g ap between twelve-month chang es in the core C PI and core P CE 
prices rose to 1.1 percentag e points in 2001, from 0.7 percentag e point in 2000. 
About half of this larg er gap reflects th e inclusion in PCE services of a number 
of non-market transactions, whose prices  have decelerated markedly  over the 
past y ear. Much of the remainder reflects differences in weig hts—particularly 
for housing , which is more heavily  weig hted in the CP I and has accelerated 
sharply . In addition, PCE prices fo r medical services, which are based on 
9. Although w e cannot assign w eights to the various factors affecting m otor vehicle prices, 
some of the recen t increas es reflect th e shift in the mix of the CPI sample tow ard 2002 m odels , 
which are l ess heavily discounted than 2001 m odels. Another factor is that the CPI may not fully 
captu re the value of financing incentives, which have been  large in recen t months. Financing 
incentives are ref lected in  the CPI only to th e extent that these deals  include an option  for cash 
rebates . While m any of the recen t incentive prog rams have also offered cas h back , the cas h 
rebates have not always been as generous as the financing incentives. 
II-34
II-35
II-36
II-37
producer prices index es (PPIs), have not moved up as quickly  as the CPI  for 
medical servi ces in recent  years. 
Prices for capital g oods as measured by  the producer price index  edged down in 
Decem ber and decel erated sharpl y in the last three m onths of t he year, l argely 
because of siz able declines in producer pr ices of motor vehicles. Prices of many 
other capital g oods have also softened in recent months. The pace of computer 
price decl ines has eased a bi t in recent  months from  the very  rapid clip of 
summer. Still, over the twelve months  of 2001, the PPI  for computers dropped a 
record 31 percent, more than tw ice the rate of decline in 2000. 
At earlier stag es of processing , the pr oducer price index  for core intermediate 
materials declined anothe r 0.2 percent in December. Over the past twelve 
months, this index  fell 1.6 percent, a ma rked reversal of the 1.6 percent rise 
recorded during  2000. Meanwhile, the PPI  for core crude materials dropped 
nearly  10 percent over the past y ear. Since the last Greenbook, metal 
prices—particularly  those for steel scrap—have turned up, but index es of 
industrial materials prices (such as the Journal of Commerce and Commodity 
Research Bureau com modity price index es) have rema ined unchang ed or 
declined som ewhat  further. 
Near-term inf lation e xpectations f rom the  prelimina ry Michigan sur vey move d 
up som ewhat  in Decem ber and J anuary  after plunging in Oct ober and 
November. The median ex pectation for inflation ove r the coming  year rose to 
1.9 percent in J anuary  but remained well below the median recorded in 
September. The mean of these ex pectations also m oved above its October level 
but remained below September’s response. The median ex pectation of inflation 
over a five- to ten-y ear horiz on increased  in December but fell to 2.6 percent in 
January , its lowest level ever. 
Labor costs. Averag e hourly  earning s of produc tion or nonsupervisory  workers 
on private pay rolls rose 0.5 percent in both November and December after 
having  increased only  0.1 percent in Oct ober. These recent increases broug ht 
the twelve-month chang e in averag e hourly  earning s to 4.1 percent in 
December, down only  slightly from the chang e in 2000. Wage increases in the 
construction and trade sectors slowed c onsiderably  last y ear, but the slowing 
was mostly  offset by  faster wa ge growth in other industries. 
In contrast to averag e hourly  earning s, compensation per hour in the nonfarm 
business sect or decel erated consi derabl y last year. Indeed, t he BEA report ed 
that third-quarter compensation per hour in creased at a slower  pace than averag e 
hourly  earning s for the first time in more  than two y ears, and, on the basis of 
October and Nove mber data on wa ges and sa laries, we estimate that the rise in 
nonfarm compensation per hour will be considerably  smaller than the rise in 
II-38
II-39
averag e hourly  earning s in the fourth quarter as well. Differences between these 
measures of labor costs may  reflect th e exclusion from averag e hourly  earning s 
of white collar pay  and non-wa ge benefits, such as health insurance, as well as 
various ty pes of labor income, such as bonuses and stock option ex ercises. 
Althoug h employ er survey s sug gest that health insurance costs have continued 
to rise more rapidly  than wag es, anecdotal reports sug gest that bonuses and 
stock option ex ercises have declined. In particular, for som e large high-tech 
firms for which stock options are important, option ex ercises dropped 
substantially  over the y ear ende d in the third quarter of 2001.10 
10. In  its construction of the wage and salary data in  the national accou nts, the BEA uses 
state u nemployment insurance (UI) records  as its prim ary source, bu t becau se these records  are 
available on ly with a lag , the BEA uses information  abou t average hourly earn ings (AHE) to 
estimate ch anges in the most recen t quarters . When the BEA saw the UI records  for the secon d 
quarter of 2001, report ed earn ings apparen tly were much lower than implied by the AHE dat a, 
sugge sting that changes in the types of labor income that are missing fr om average hourly 
earnings m ight be holding down the change in overall compensation. As a result, the BEA 
reduced th e adj ustment factor it applies  to av erage hourly earnings w hen putting together its 
estimates of wages and salaries  for the third an d fourth quarters . 
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
Domestic Financial Developments
Overview
Economic data releases over the intermeeting period tended to be on the positiveside of expectations, but financial ma rkets also had to absorb other more
negative signals of future economic activity .  In particular, speeches by Federal
Reserve officials that were interpreted as emphasizing the downside risks for the
economy, along with fading odds of a fis cal stimulus package, contributed to a
decline in yields on Treasury and inve stment-grade corporate bonds.  Moreover,
disappointing corporate announcements re garding prospects for the year ahead
kept equity prices in check and contribut ed to some widening of risk spreads on
speculative-grade bonds.
The fiscal position of the federal gove rnment moved into temporary surplus
over the intermeeting peri od, facilitating a net paydow n of Treasury debt.  In
contrast, state and local governments tappe d the credit markets in size, reflecting
in part continued deteriora tion in fiscal positions at th e state and local levels.  In
the private sector, net debt issuance by  nonfinancial corporations slowed, and
according to the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey, demand for bankloans by businesses continued to weak en.   Household borrowing apparently
remained robust in December.
Policy Expectations, Interest Rates, and Stock Prices
The nearest-term fed funds futures quotes  imply that investors attach about a 
20 percent probability to a quarter-point rate cut at the upcoming FOMCmeeting.  Looking beyond this meeting,  futures quotes indi cate that investors
now expect somewhat less policy tightening over the coming year than they didat the time of the last FOMC meeting.  Uncertainty about the future path of
policy implied by options on interest ra te futures dropped appreciably over the
period but remains elevated.
Consistent with the downward revision in policy expectations, Treasury coupon
yields fell 15 to 27 basis points over the intermeeting period.  The drop in
Treasury yields was reportedly amplified somewhat by a sense that the odds had
lengthened against the passage of a fiscal stimulus package.  In early January,dealers reported that liquidity had improve d relative to the end of last year but
remained depressed relative to levels prior to September 11.
Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds  fell in line with those on Treasuries
over the intermeeting period, leaving risk spreads about unchang ed.  In contrast,
spreads for high-yield bonds rose afte r disappointing earnings news for some
lower-rated firms, but they stayed well below their recent highs of September. Risk spreads on commercial paper, while  retracing their typical year-end runup,
remained considerably above  pre-September 11 levels.
III-2
III-3
Equity prices posted modest gains in December, with investors reportedly
encouraged by the positive tone to econo mic data.  But those gains were erased
in January, in part as investors react ed to pessimistic news from a number of
prominent corporations, especially in  the technology sector, about expected
sales and earnings over the coming year.  On net, the Nasdaq Composite fell
more than 5 percent, while broad st ock market indexes were down between 
1 and 2 percent over the intermeeting period.
Business Finance
Overall, net debt financ ing by nonfinancial busine sses moderated in December
from the rapid pace set earlier in the fourth quarter, and the data so far inJanuary suggest another month of subdued borrowing.  Gross issuance of
investment-grade corporate bonds in December and January, while well below
the extraordinary November pace, wa s still reasonably strong, with firms
continuing to use bond proceeds to refi nance long-term debt and to replace
short-term debt.  High-yield firms in a number of industries also issued bonds,
although new issues genera lly tended to be from cor porations on the upper rungs
of the speculative-grade ladder.
Outstanding nonfinancial commercial pa per rose on net in December and early
January but was more than offset by a decline in C&I loans at commercial
banks.  In the January Senior Loan O fficer Survey, nearly half of the banks
reported that, over the past three months, they continued to tighten their terms
and conditions on C&I loans, mostly in  response to the less favorable economic
outlook.  Just over half of the banks reported weaker demand for C&I loans,
down from three-fourths in the October su rvey.  Banks again cited reductions in
capital spending, diminished M&A activity, and inventory liquidation as reasonsfor the weaker loan demand.
Gross equity issuance continued at a brisk pace in December but has slackened
since year-end.  Seasoned offerings in December were boosted by energy
companies issuing shares in an attempt to reduce leverage after the Enrondebacle prompted closer i nvestor scrutiny of their books and downgrades by the
major rating agencies.  So far in Janua ry, seasoned offerings have slowed as
share prices have decline d.  Initial public offerings picked up slightly over the
intermeeting period, but remained at onl y about a third the rate in 1999 and
2000.  Announcements of share repurchas e programs slowed in the fourth
quarter, and cash-financed mergers and acquisitions were also subdued,
suggesting that actual equity retirements are likely to have fallen somewhat.
S&P earnings in the fourth quarter appear to be bleak, consistent with analysts’
expectations.  With about one-third  of the companies reporting, S&P 500
earnings are expected to drop about 20 percent from a year ago.  Revisions of
analysts’ year-ahead forecasts of corporate earnings were generally small in 
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
December and the first half of January, coming on the heels of the sizable
negative revisions made in  October and November.  Even with these downward
revisions, analysts currently project a substantial recovery in earnings in 2002. 
Given the current expectations, the ratio of year-ahead earnings to price remains
low—only slightly above the real long-term AAA-rated bond yield—implying
that stock valuations remain rich.
The twelve-month trailing average of the rate of junk bond defaults rose to an
all-time high in December, boosted by the $10 billion Enron failure.  The junk
bond default rate is likely to remain elev ated in January, owing to the default of
K-Mart, the largest ever by a domestic retailer.  Ratings downgrades continued
at a rapid rate in December, with  telecom companies disproportionately
represented, while very few upgrades we re issued.  Despite these downgrades,
an estimate of one-year ahead defaults as a percent of firm liabilities dropped
further in December from its record high in October, reflecting higher firmvaluations.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial mortgage debt is estimated to have grown a bit less rapidly in thefourth quarter than in the third quarter .  Nevertheless, orig inations have been
strong for some time, and CMBS issuance in the fourth quarter totaled $22billion, close to the record set in the second quarter of 1998.  The spread of BBB
over AAA CMBS yields narrowed a few basis points over the intermeeting
period, but remains somewhat elevated  by historical standards. CMBS
delinquency rates increased in December to their highest level since early 1997,
perhaps reflecting the rise in office vacancy rates, which rose to nearly 14 percent in the fourth quarter. 
Household Finance
Interest rates on thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages continued to rise through mid-December from the low recorded in October, damping the elevated pace ofrefinancing activity.  In January, however , mortgage rates have retraced their
increases last month, and refinancing activity again has ticked up.  Meanwhile,
the MBA purchase index moved up to a record level over the intermeeting
period.
Residential mortgage growth in the fourth quarter is estimated to have
moderated from its rapid third-quarter pace, while the growth in consumer creditturned up smartly, stimulated by aggressive auto incentives.  The considerablerise in debt, together with an unwindi ng of the boost to incomes from the tax
rebate, pushed the estimated household debt service bur den to 14-1/2 percent in
the fourth quarter, close to its record high in 1986.
III-8
III-9
III-10
III-11
1. Currently, the Treasury’s balances at depository institutions are held mostly in demand
accounts bearing an interest rate set at 25 basis points below the effective federal funds rate.  It is
expected that the new time deposits offered by the Treasury under this program will be attractive
to banks and give the Treasury more flexibility in managing its cash flows around tax payment
dates.The most recent readings on household debt-servicing problems have been
somewhat mixed.  Although delinquency ra tes on auto loans at captive finance
companies dropped slightly in Octobe r and November, de linquency rates on
auto loans extended to nonprime borro wers remained on a sharp uptrend
through November.  Deli nquency rates on credit card pools edged up, on net, in
October and November.  Personal bankruptcy rates— for which we have more
timely data—moved down in December and January, but remain high by
historical standards.  According to th e January Senior Loan Officer Survey,
about 20 percent of banks, on net, tighten ed their standards for credit card and
other consumer loans, similar to the results from the October survey.
The ratio of household assets to disposab le income rose in the fourth quarter. 
The rise reflects small gains in the equity market as well as the reduction indisposable income from the unwinding of  the third-quarter tax rebate.  Flows
into equity and bond mutual funds slowed  late in the fourth quarter, as the
equity market stalled a nd rising rates reduced bond fund returns.  So far in
January, flows into mutual funds app ear to have strengthened somewhat. 
Capital gains paid on long-term mutual  funds totaled an estimated $73 billion in
2001, a sharp decline from previous years.
Government and Agency Finance
Somewhat stronger-than-expected tax receipts in December and January pushedthe Treasury’s budget position back into surplus over the intermeeting period. As a result, the Treasury paid down mark etable debt over the period, with most
of the adjustment concentrated at the shortest maturities.  The influx of cashpushed the Treasury’s balances held at  commercial banks up to the capacity of
the Treasury Tax and Loan System in la te January.  In order to improve its
ability to manage its cash flows the Treasury is finalizing the details of aprogram that it intends to implement in early April, in which it will offer termdeposits at auction to depository institutions.
1
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae issued re vised 2002 calendars for benchmark debt
issuance.  Both agencies have scaled back their planned issuance of thirty-year
bonds relative to recent years.  This de velopment reportedly reflects their desire
to better manage the duration of their liabilities.  The GSE’s pullback fromthirty-year bond issuance in recent mont hs seems to have affected market
liquidity.  Despite the Treasury’s can cellation of the long bond—which might
have been expected to strengthen the demand for long-term agency debt—yields 
III-12
III-13
2. These data incorporate the effects of the annual seasonal review and are confidential until
their release that is scheduled for January 31.on thirty-year agency debt are greater than comparable swap rates, contrary to
the patterns for shorter maturities.
Gross issuance of long-term debt by st ate and local governments, both for new
capital and refundings, tota led a hefty $28 billion in December, down a bit from
the very rapid pace in November.  Partial data for January suggest some furtherslowing.  Muni yields declined over the intermeeting period, but by less than
Treasuries, reflecting perhaps the larg e supply of recently issued debt, and
perceptions of more supply to come as  states rely more on bond financing for
capital projects.  The credit quality of many state and local governments hasbegun to erode as economic activity has weakened and tax receipts have
flagged.
Money and Bank Credit
In December, M2 grew just under 9 pe rcent at an annual rate, down from its
pace in November, and below the average growth rate for 2001 as a whole.
2
While the weaker economy likely exerted a drag on M2 growth, otherfactors—including overseas demand for cu rrency, an earlier surge in mortgage
refinancing, and con tinued stimulus from past policy easings—boosted its
growth.
Currency grew rapidly as the crisis in Argentina and continued demand from
Russia generated noteworthy overseas sh ipments.  Liquid deposits remained
strong in December, continuing to grow at a 20 percent annual rate.  The peak in
mortgage refinancings in mid-November likely contributed significantly to theDecember growth in liquid deposits, as normal delays in the disbursement offunds from refinanced mortgages underlyi ng mortgage-backed securities caused
a swelling in demand de posit escrow accounts.  
In contrast, growth of re tail money funds slowed in  December, as money fund
yield spreads over bank deposit rates narrowed.  Small time deposits continuedto contract at a fairly rapid pace; low interest rates make these types of depositsespecially unattractive, given their relatively low liquidity.  Data for the firstweek of January suggest some further sl owing in M2, but it is too early to tell
how the month as a whole will shape up.
The rate of expansion of the non-M2 co mponent of M3 slowed significantly in
December.  Institution-only money funds  grew less rapidly, and large time
deposits continued to shrink.
III-14
III-15
Bank credit growth slowed in December, falling to 2-3/4 percent at an annual
rate.  Total loans contracted at a 4-3/4 percent pace, pulled down by anothersharp reduction in business loans.  The runoff in business loans and commercial
paper last year was accompanied by a decline in inventories.  Changes in short-term credit and changes in inventorie s have moved together over the past
decade, suggesting that the continued contraction in short-term credit inDecember and early January signals th at businesses were still liquidating
inventories.
Incoming reports for large bank holding companies show that fourth-quarter
earnings fell from levels a year ago, but only a few firms have reported
losses—in particular, those with heavy exposure to Enron and Argentina.  More
broadly, higher net intere st income was offset by higher loan loss provisions.
III-16
 
International Developments
Net Trade in Goods and Services
(Billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted)
Annual rate Monthly rate
2000 2001 2001
 Q2 Q3 Q4 e Sept. Oct. Nov.
Real NIPA1
Net exports of G&S -399.1 -406.7 -411.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Nominal BOP
Net exports of G&S -375.7 -362.2 -308.8 -343.3 -19.0 -29.3 -27.9
Goods, net -452.2 -430.6 -421.8 -414.1 -35.5 -35.0 -34.0
Services, net 76.5 68.5 113.0 70.8 16.5 5.7 6.1
1.  Billions of chained (1996) dollars.
e.  BOP data are two months at an annual rate.Source:  U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureaus of Economic Analysis and Census.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.International Developments
U.S.  International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
In November, the U.S. trade deficit in goods and services was $27.9 billion,
down $1.4 billion from October (revised).  For October and Novembercombined, the trade deficit was $343 billion at an annual rate, up $35 billionfrom the third quarter.  Excluding September’s one-time insurance paymentrelated to the events of September 11, the trade deficit in October-Novemberdecreased about $10 billion at an annual rate from the third quarter.
The value of exported goods and services rose 0.7 percent in November
following a 1.1 percent increase in October, but remained 6 percent below theaverage level in July and August.  The rise in exports in November was drivenby a 4½ percent increase in services receipts, which more than offset a ¾ percentdrop in goods exports.  A partial recovery of receipts in travel and passengerfares from the lows of September and October accounted for the increase inservices exports, though receipts in these two categories, taken together,remained 25 percent below their July-August average.  The value of goodsexports declined in most categories of trade in November, with the exception ofmachinery, which rose.  For October and November on average, goods exportswere down 2¾ percent from the third quarter, with declines recorded in all majorcategories of trade except agricultural products.
The value of imported goods and services decreased 0.8 percent in November
and was 5½ percent below the average level in July and August.  Excluding thelarge drop in the value of imported oil (owing primarily to a lower price, but 
IV-2
U.S. International Trade in Goods and Services
-450-400-350-300-250-200-150-100-500NominalBOP basis
RealNIPA basis(1996$)Bil$, s.a.a.r. Net Exports
1994 1996 1998 2000 2002
20406080100120140160180200220
Machinery 2/
Industrialsupplies 1/
Consumer goods
AircraftBil$, s.a.a.r.
1994 1996 1998 2000 2002
1.  Excludes agriculture and gold.
2.  Excludes computers and semiconductors. Selected Exports-4-3-2-10123Percentage points, s.a.a.r.
1994 1996 1998 2000 2002Contribution of Net Exports to Real GDP Growth
-60-40-20020Net trade in computersand semiconductors
Net automotive tradewith Canada and Mexico
1994 1996 1998 2000 2002Bil$, s.a.a.r.
7090110130150170190210230250270290310
507090110130150170190210230250270290Consumer goods
Machinery 2/Industrialsupplies 1/
Automotive 3/  (overseas)
1.  Excludes oil and gold.
2.  Excludes computers and semiconductors.3.  Excludes Canada and Mexico.1994 1996 1998 2000 2002     Selected Imports Bil$, s.a.a.r.     
IV-3
U.S. Exports and Imports of Goods and Services
(Billions of dollars, s.a.a.r., BOP basis)
Levels Amount Change1
2001 2001 2001 2001
Q3 Q4 e Oct. Nov. Q3 Q4 e Oct. Nov.
Exports of G&S 973.7 935.1 931.7 938.4 -63.5 -38.7 10.4 6.8
Goods exports 695.3 676.8 679.1 674.6 -48.2 -18.4 11.9 -4.5
Gold 2.4 2.7 2.5 3.0 -5.2 0.4 0.9 0.5Other goods 692.9 674.1 676.6 671.6 -43.0 36.1 11.0 -5.0
Aircraft & parts 53.1 52.4 54.0 50.8 -2.0 -0.7 3.0 -3.2
Computers 44.5 41.8 42.3 41.3 -4.1 -2.7 -0.3 -1.0Semiconductors 38.9 38.7 38.7 38.6 -7.5 -0.3 1.7 -0.2Other capital gds 168.4 159.4 156.6 162.2 -14.2 -9.0 -2.8 5.6
Automotive 77.4 75.2 75.5 74.8 1.1 -2.2 -1.8 -0.7
to Canada 40.3 39.0 38.5 39.5 -2.0 -1.3 -0.1 1.0to Mexico 15.6 18.3 19.2 17.5 -0.3 2.7 2.7 -1.7to ROW 21.5 17.8 17.8 17.8 3.3 -3.7 -4.4 0.1
Agricultural 54.9 57.6 57.5 57.7 1.0 2.7 4.8 0.2
Ind supplies (ex. ag) 140.4 136.4 138.3 134.5 -7.2 -4.0 2.8 -3.8Consumer goods 86.0 84.7 85.4 83.9 -7.6 -1.4 2.8 -1.5All other goods 29.2 28.0 28.2 27.7 -2.5 -1.3 5.1 -0.5
Services exports 278.5 258.2 252.6 263.9 -15.3 -20.2 -1.5 11.3
Imports of G&S 1282.5 1278.3 1283.6 1273.1 -116.9 -4.2 134.1 -10.5
Goods imports 1117.0 1090.9 1099.6 1082.2 -57.0 -26.1 6.1 -17.4
Petroleum 102.7 86.7 95.0 78.5 -11.6 -16.0 -7.7 -16.5Gold 2.2 2.9 2.9 2.8 -4.3 0.7 0.6 -0.1Other goods 1012.2 1001.3 1001.8 1000.9 -41.2 -10.8 13.1 -0.8
Aircraft & parts 30.7 32.0 31.5 32.5 -0.3 1.3 4.7 1.0
Computers 67.9 68.7 69.4 68.0 -7.9 0.8 5.8 -1.4Semiconductors 24.7 23.5 23.2 23.8 -6.1 -1.2 -1.9 0.6Other capital gds 154.0 150.2 150.6 149.9 -8.0 -3.8 -1.3 -0.7
Automotive 192.0 189.8 188.7 190.9 0.8 -2.2 1.5 2.2
from Canada 59.0 55.4 54.2 56.7 -2.0 -3.6 -0.7 2.4from Mexico 40.2 42.3 43.7 40.9 -0.9 2.1 3.4 -2.8from ROW 92.8 92.0 90.7 93.3 3.7 -0.8 -1.2 2.5
Ind supplies 164.5 155.4 157.1 153.7 -12.7 -9.1 -0.1 -3.4
Consumer goods 279.9 282.2 281.9 282.5 -6.4 2.3 2.7 0.6Foods, feeds, bev. 48.0 47.9 47.9 48.0 2.2 -0.0 -0.0 0.0All other goods 50.4 51.5 51.4 51.6 -2.6 1.1 1.9 0.2
Services imports 165.5 187.4 184.0 190.9 -59.8 21.9 128.0 6.9
Memo:
Oil quantity (mb/d) 11.96 12.26 12.59 11.93 -0.96 0.31 0.94 -0.66Oil import price ($/bbl) 23.52 19.33 20.64 18.01 -0.70 -4.20 -3.46 -2.63
1.  Change from previous quarter or month.     e.  Average of two months.
Source:  U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureaus of Economic Analysis and Census.
IV-4
    ------------- BLS prices (1995 weights)-------------
     ---Prices in the NIPA accounts (1996 weights)---Prices of U.S. Imports and Exports
(Percentage change from previous period)
Annual rates Monthly rates
2001 2001
Q2 Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Merchandise imports                                                                 -6.9                                                                                -7.3                                                                                            -13.4                                                                                                            -2.3                                                                                                                          -1.4                                                                                                                               - 0.9
Oil                                                               -10.9                                                                              -12.3                                                                                            -64.0                                                                                                          -15.3                                                                                                                        -11.4                                                                                                                               - 6.3
Non-oil                                                                 -6.4                                                                                -6.3                                                                                              -4.0                                                                                                            -0.6                                                                                                                          -0.2                                                                                                                               - 0.3
Core goods*                                                                 -6.1                                                                                -6.2                                                                                              -3.8                                                                                                            -0.5                                                                                                                          -0.3                                                                                                                               - 0.3
Cap. goods ex comp & semi                                                                  -0.6                                                                                -1.3                                                                                              -0.1                                                                                                             0.2                                                                                                                          -0.2                                                                                                                               - 0.3
Automotive products                                                                  -1.0                                                                                -0.5                                                                                               1.3                                                                                                             0.2                                                                                                                          -0.1                                                                                                                                0.1
Consumer goods                                                                  -1.2                                                                                -1.1                                                                                              -1.5                                                                                                            -0.2                                                                                                                          -0.1                                                                                                                               - 0.1
Foods, feeds, beverages                                                                  -8.8                                                                                -7.1                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                            -0.6                                                                                                                            0.6                                                                                                                               - 0.7
Industrial supplies ex oil                                                                -18.1                                                                              -21.1                                                                                            -14.8                                                                                                            -2.3                                                                                                                          -0.8                                                                                                                               - 0.9
Computers                                                               -12.6                                                                              -13.5                                                                                            -12.5                                                                                                            -1.5                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                                                                               - 0.4
Semiconductors                                                                 -6.2                                                                                -1.1                                                                                              -0.6                                                                                                             0.2                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                                                                                0.0
Merchandise exports                                                                 -2.1                                                                                -2.8                                                                                              -4.3                                                                                                            -0.7                                                                                                                          -0.4                                                                                                                               - 0.2
Core goods*                                                                 -1.7                                                                                -2.1                                                                                              -3.7                                                                                                            -0.6                                                                                                                          -0.4                                                                                                                               - 0.2
Cap. goods ex comp & semi                                                                    1.3                                                                                -0.4                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                0.0
Automotive products                                                                    0.5                                                                                 0.0                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                             0.1                                                                                                                          -0.1                                                                                                                                0.0
Consumer goods                                                                  -1.0                                                                                 0.7                                                                                               0.7                                                                                                            -0.1                                                                                                                            0.1                                                                                                                                0.0
Agricultural products                                                                  -2.9                                                                                 6.1                                                                                              -8.5                                                                                                            -1.7                                                                                                                          -1.4                                                                                                                                1.1
Industrial supples ex ag                                                                  -6.3                                                                              -10.9                                                                                            -10.9                                                                                                            -1.6                                                                                                                          -1.3                                                                                                                               - 1.2
Computers                                                                 -4.9                                                                                -8.1                                                                                              -5.7                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                          -0.6                                                                                                                               - 1.9
Semiconductors                                                                 -7.1                                                                                -7.0                                                                                            -16.2                                                                                                            -4.5                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                                                                                0.3
Chain price index
Imports of goods & services                                                                 -6.0                                                                              -17.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Non-oil merchandise                                                                  -5.6                                                                                -6.7 n.a. ... ... ...
Core goods*                                                                  -5.0                                                                                -6.2 n.a. ... ... ...
Exports of goods & services                                                                 -1.0                                                                                -1.7 n.a. ... ... ...
Total merchandise                                                                  -1.5                                                                                -2.2 n.a. ... ... ...
Core goods*                                                                  -1.0                                                                                -1.5 n.a. ... ... ...
*/  Excludes computers and semiconductors.
n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
510152025303540
Spot West Texas Intermediate
Import unit value
  1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002Oil Prices
Dollars per barrel       
IV-5
also to a smaller quantity), goods imports declined only slightly.  A modest
decrease in imports of industrial supplies was mostly offset by increasedautomotive imports (mainly parts).  Imports of capital goods and consumergoods were little changed.  Services imports increased 3.8 percent in November,resulting from a modest rebound in travel and passenger fares (receipts in thesetwo categories remained 30 percent below the July-August average).  ForOctober and November on average, non-oil goods imports fell 1 percent fromthe third quarter.  The largest decline occurred in industrial supplies, which wasdriven mainly by a drop in the value of imported natural gas. 
Prices of Internationally Traded Goods
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil continued to fall in December, although not
as sharply as in the two preceding months.  For the fourth quarter on average theprice of imported oil was down more than 60 percent at an annual rate from thethird quarter.  The spot price of West Texas Intermediate has recently beentrading between $18 and $19 per barrel, down about $3 per barrel from earlyJanuary, but about unchanged from early December.  Oil prices generally movedhigher during December as OPEC and several non-OPEC producers worked outa production restraint arrangement, with OPEC agreeing to cut its productiontarget 1.5 million barrels per day.  More recently, however, the spot price of WTIhas retraced those gains as increases in U.S. crude oil inventories, along withdoubts that OPEC will sharply cut production, have weighed on oil prices.
Non-oil imports.   The price of imported non-oil (and core) goods fell again in
December, the eleventh consecutive month of declining or unchanged prices. Among major categories of core goods, the largest decline was in prices forindustrial supplies and materials, particularly lumber and natural gas.  The priceindex for food also fell sharply in December, reversing the previous month’sincrease.  The price indexes for imported capital equipment (other thancomputers and semiconductors) and consumer goods both fell slightly inDecember, while the price index for automotive products edged up.  For thefourth quarter on average, the price of core goods was down nearly 4 percent atan annual rate from the third quarter, somewhat less than the decline recorded inthe second and third quarters.   The price decline over this period was again ledby a decrease in the price of imported industrial supplies.  The price of consumergoods showed a small decline in the fourth quarter, whereas prices for capitalgoods excluding computers and semiconductors were little changed, and theprice for automotive products rose slightly. 
Exports.   Prices of U.S. goods exports (total and core) also fell again in
December, although the decline was not as steep as in November.  The decreasein December was again led by sharp declines in prices of industrial supplies,particularly for exported fuels.  Prices in other major categories were unchanged,
IV-6
Annua l
1999 -261.8 -8.5 -54.0 -324.4
2000 -375.7 -9.6 -59.3 -444.7
Quarterly
2000:Q4 -401.2 7.9 -72.0 -465.32001:Q1 -380.1 -14.6 -52.4 -447.1
Q2 -362.2 -14.6 -53.5 -430.3Q3 -310.3 -14.9 -54.7 -379.9
Change
Q4-Q3 -11.8 22.4 -14.6 -4.1
Q1-Q4 21.1 -22.5 19.6 18.2Q2-Q1 17.9 0.0 -1.1 16.8Q3-Q2 51.8 -0.2 -1.2 50.4
     Source:  U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis.PeriodU.S. Current Account
(Billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted annual rate)
Other  
income and 
transfers, netCurrent 
account 
balanceInvestment 
income,      
netGoods and 
services,     
netwith the exception of the price index for agricultural products, which  largely
reversed its November decline.  For the fourth quarter on average, the price ofexported core goods fell nearly 4 percent at an annual rate from the third quarter,primarily reflecting declines in prices of industrial supplies and agriculturalproducts.
U.S. Current Account
In the third quarter of 2001, the U.S. current account deficit narrowed, for the
third consecutive quarter, to $380 billion at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. The $50 billion decline largely resulted from the one-time recording of estimatedforeign insurance payments related to the events of September 11, whichreduced reported service imports by $44 billion.  The remaining decline of $6billion resulted from a non-insurance related decline in the trade deficit.
The trade deficit narrowed as the world economic slowdown, along with
transactions disruptions stemming from September 11, decreased exports lessthan imports.   Income on investments also reflected sagging global conditions,with declines in income receipts on U.S.-owned assets abroad (both portfolioand direct) slightly exceeding decreases in income payments on foreign-ownedassets in the United States.   Unilateral transfer payments rose slightly, primarilydue to an increase in private remittances and other private transfers.
IV-7
U.S. International Financial Transactions
Foreign private net purchases of U.S. securities set a record in October and
remained at a high level in November, in sharp contrast to the unusually lowlevel of net purchases recorded in September (line 4 of the Summary of U.S.International Transactions table).  Through November, foreign net purchaseshave already exceeded the record level set in 2000.  The pattern of foreign netpurchases suggests some flight-to-quality after the events of September 11
th.  
Net purchases of Treasuries (line 4a) in October-November were the highest forany two-month period since November-December 1998.  Net purchases ofagency securities (line 4b) were also strong, with record purchases in October,perhaps fueled in part by an unusually high level of new issuances by FannieMae and Freddie Mac.  Of note in October were large net purchases from Japanof both Treasury ($10 billion) and agency securities ($14 billion).  In November,most of the activity in Treasury securities was through the Caribbean financialcenters.  Foreign net purchases of corporate debt (line 4c) continued strong andforeign net purchases of equities (line 4d) returned to their pre-September trendlevels after net sales were recorded in September for the first time sinceSeptember 1998.
U.S. residents made modest net purchases of foreign securities in October-
November (line 5) following large net sales in the third quarter, especially inSeptember.  Purchases of foreign equities (line 5b) returned to approximatelytheir pre-September levels in October, but were largely offset by net sales inNovember.  U.S. residents made small net purchases of foreign bonds inNovember following seven straight months of sales totaling $35 billion.
Foreign official assets held in the United States (line 1) increased in both
October and November.  Gains were recorded over the period for Japan ($12billion) and Venezuela ($5 billion) that exceeded a decline in Argentina’sholdings ($5 billion).  While increases in official Japanese holdings in theUnited States over the September-October period were significantly less than thereported size of the Japanese intervention late in the third quarter, publishedJapanese reserve data show an increase in foreign securities holdings on theorder of the intervention, indicating a substantial amount of foreign securitieswere acquired from non-U.S. sources.  To the extent that private Japanesesupplied these securities, part of the large inflow attributed to private Japanese purchases of Treasuries and agencies could represent replenishment of theirholdings.  (The U.S. reporting system will not capture the official/privatetransactions outside the United States and will thus overstate private holdingsand understate official holdings.)  Partial data from FRBNY indicate that inDecember foreign official assets decreased by $2 billion.
IV-8
There were large net banking inflows (line 3) in both October and November,
resulting primarily from deposits and other interoffice activity with Caribbeanbranches of both U.S.-chartered and foreign-based institutions. 
In the third quarter, U.S. direct investment abroad (line 6) was the highest ever
recorded and exceeded foreign direct investment in the United States (line 7) forthe first time since the first quarter of 2000.  U.S. direct investment abroad wasbolstered by $20 billion in retained earnings and the $13 billion Citigrouptakeover of a Mexican bank.  Foreign direct investment in the United States wasunusually low, reflecting a reduced level of foreign acquisitions of U.S. firms inthe quarter.
The statistical discrepancy in the third quarter was positive $58 billion,
following a negative $47 billion discrepancy in the second quarter.
IV-9
Summary of U.S. International Transactions
(Billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted except as noted)
 1999 20002000 2001
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct. Nov.
Official financial flows 55.0 39.3 -5.4 4.8 -21.3 13.2 8.7 7.4
1. Change in foreign official assets
in the U.S. (increase, +) 46.4 39.6 -4.0 4.6 -20.0 16.8 8.3 7.2
a.  G-10 countries 49.7 12.3 -.8 -5.5 -6.1 -5.6 10.4 3.5b.  OPEC countries 2.0 10.7 .6 .8 -2.1 -4.7 1.3 2.4
c.  All other countries -5.3 16.6 -3.8 9.2 -11.8 27.0 -3.4 1.3
2. Change in U.S. official reserve
assets (decrease, +) 8.6 -.3 -1.4 .2 -1.3 -3.6 .4 .1
Private financial flows 321.7 404.0 119.2 98.8 175.7    23.5 ... ...
Banks
3. Change in net foreign positions
of banking offices in the U.S.
1-12.4 -6.7 13.4 -79.4 29.1 -12.1 31.7 54.2
Securities2
4. Foreign net purchases of U.S.
securities (+) 333.2 435.7 117.8 149.0 125.8 74.0 67.2 50.1
a. Treasury securities -19.9 -52.4 -10.1 .7 -8.5 -9.3 15.2 8.0b. Agency bonds 71.9 111.9 38.3 38.8 29.4 33.1 25.3 11.0c. Corporate and municipal bonds 158.8 182.1 50.8 68.9 70.4 37.3 19.6 18.0d. Corporate stocks
3122.4 194.0 38.8 40.7 34.5 12.9 7.1 13.1
5. U.S. net acquisitions (-) of
foreign securities -112.9 -101.1 -17.8 -21.0 -44.1 19.2 -2.8 1.8
a. Bonds -5.7 -4.1 3.3 -2.0 8.8 25.4 .3 -.9b. Stock purchases 15.6 -13.1 3.6 -16.4 -18.7 -6.1 -3.1 2.7c. Stock swaps
3-122.9 -84.0 -24.7 -2.6 -34.2 .0 .0 .0
Other flows (quarterly data, s.a.)
6. U.S. direct investment (-) abroad -155.4 -152.4 -39.1 -40.9 -41.1 -52.1 ... ...7. Foreign direct investment in U.S. 301.0 287.7 84.7 52.5 65.2 26.4 ... ...8. Foreign holdings of U.S. currency 22.4 1.1 6.2 2.3 2.8 8.2 ... ...
9. Other (inflow, + )
4-54.2 -60.2 -46.1 36.3 38.0 -40.1 ... ...
U.S. current account balance (s.a.) -324.4 -444.7 -116.3 -111.8 -107.6 -95.0 ... ...
Capital account balance (s.a.)5-3.5 .7 .2 .2 .2 .2 ... ...
Statistical discrepancy (s.a.) -48.8 .7 2.4 8.1 -47.0      58.1 ... ...
NOTE.  The sum of official and private financial flows, the current account balance, the capital account balance, and the
statistical discrepancy is zero.  Details may not sum to totals because of r ounding.
1.  Changes in dollar-denominated positions of all depository institutions and bank holding companies plus certain
transactions between broker-dealers and unaffiliated foreigners (particularly borrowing and lending under repurchaseagreements). Includes changes in custody liabilities other than U.S. Treasury bills.
2.  Includes commissions on securities transactions and excludes adjustments BEA makes to acc ount for incomplete
coverage; therefore does not match exactly the data on U.S. international transactions published by the Department ofCommerce.
3.  Includes (4d) or represents (5c) stocks acquired through mergers.4.  Transactions by nonbanking concerns and other banking and official transactions not shown elsewhere plus
amounts resulting from adjustments made by the Department of Commerce and revisions in lines 1 through 5 sincepublication of the quarterly data in the Survey of Current Business
5. Consists of transactions in nonproduced nonfinancial assets and capital transfers.
n.a. Not available.    ...  Not applicable.  
IV-10
979899100101102103Daily
Major CurrenciesBroadOther ImportantTrading Partners
October November December JanuaryFOMCDecemberExchange Value of the Dollar
Index, December 10, 2001 = 100Foreign Exchange Markets
The major currencies index of the exchange value of the dollar has risen
2 percent on balance since the December FOMC meeting.  This gain was due, inlarge part, to a 6 percent appreciation versus the yen.  Market participants haveinterpreted an absence of objections from Japanese officials while the yen wasfalling as an implicit endorsement for a weaker yen.  The moribund state of theJapanese economy also continued to weigh on the yen, particularly as optimismin the market waned that the Koizumi administration would undertake many ofthe sweeping structural changes called for during the election campaign lastyear.  Even the Japanese government, which has perennially been moreoptimistic than private forecasters, expects Japan’s economy to stagnate over thecoming fiscal year which begins in April.  The Bank of Japan decision toincrease its target for balances held at the BOJ to around ¥10 trillion-15 trillionat its policy meeting on December 19 may also have helped to weaken the yen. 
The dollar appreciated ½ percent, on balance, against the euro over the
intermeeting period.  At the turn of the new year, the euro rose against the dollarafter the successful introduction of the notes and coins.  These gains wereretraced, however, as the focus in the market shifted back to the character of theglobal recovery, with a firm consensus believing that the U.S. economy willcome out of this slowdown sooner and more forcefully than the euro area.  
IV-11
Financial Indicators in Major Industrial Countries
Three-month rate Ten-year yield    Equities
Percentage Percentage
Jan. 23 Point Jan. 23 Point Percent
Country (Percent) Change (Percent) Change Change
Canada 2.01 -.11 5.35 -.17 -.01
Japan .04 .01 1.44 .08 -4.70Euro area 3.36 .00 4.84 .01 -2.00United Kingdom 3.91 -.05 4.86 -.08 -.46Switzerland 1.65 -.04 3.51 .00 -.58Australia 4.31 .00 5.88 .05 1.88
United States 1.73 -.08 4.89 -.28 -1.81Memo:
Weighted-averageforeign 2.02 -.03 4.54 -.04 n.a.
NOTE.  Change is from December 10  to January 23 (10 a.m. EDT).
 n.a.  Not available.The U.S. dollar has appreciated 2 percent, on net, against the Canadian dollar
since the December FOMC meeting, eclipsing the previous record high reachedlast year.  On January 15, the Bank of Canada lowered its overnight target rate25 basis points, to 2 percent.
The index of the exchange value of the dollar in terms of the currencies of our
other important trading partners rose 1 percent over the intermeeting period, inpart due to the Argentine peso, which depreciated sharply against the dollar afterArgentine authorities ceased to support one-to-one convertibility between thepeso and dollar.   In early January a dual exchange rate system was created, witha fixed exchange rate of 1.40 pesos per dollar for some foreign trade andgovernment-sanctioned transactions, and a floating exchange rate for othertransactions.  On January 11, trading at the floating rate began, and the currencyimmediately weakened to a value below that of the fixed rate.            .  Nonetheless, the floating peso hasweakened to as much as 2 pesos per dollar.  Other Latin American currenciesappeared to be little affected by these developments.  The Brazilian real
depreciated 2 percent, the Chilean peso weakened slightly, and the Mexican pesoappreciated ½ percent.  The Korean won depreciated 4 percent against the dollaramid comments from Chinese and Korean officials expressing concern over the yen’s weaker level and warning of potential domino effectsfrom competitive devaluation. 
IV-12
Financial Indicators in Latin America, Asia, and Russia
Currency/ Short-term Dollar-denominated Equity
 US dollar  Interest rates 1  bond spread 2  prices
Percentage Percentage
Percent Jan.22/23 Point Jan.22/23 Point Percent
Economy Jan. 23 Change (Percent) Change (Percent) Change Change
Mexico 9.15 -.44 6.74 .72 2.94 -.24 7.57
Brazil 2.39 1.81 18.90 -.15 8.34 -.45 -3.12Argentina
3 1.40 40.14  6.75 -4.75 43.65 ... 89.64
Chile 667.70 .48 5.54 -.89 2.36 .21 -3.21
China 8.28 -.01 n.a. n.a. 1.50 .02 -17.37
Korea 1331.50 3.81 4.15 .00 1.17 -.16 11.04Taiwan 35.08 1.74 2.58 .02 ... ... 8.43Singapore 1.84 .33  .88 -.06 ... ... 3.51Hong Kong 7.80 .00 1.81 -.04 ... ... -8.68Malaysia 3.80 .01 2.90 .00 1.64 -.04 3.22Thailand 44.20 .71 2.13 -.88 3.66 -.25 7.52Indonesia 10395.00 1.66 17.55 -.23 5.22 .23 16.08Philippines 51.25 -1.16  7.25 -2.56 4.70 -.23 17.54Russia 30.57 1.53 n.a. n.a. 6.03 -.99 23.88
NOTE.  Change is from December 10 to January 22/23.
1.  One month interbank interest rate, except Chile: 30-day deposit rate; Korea: 1-week call rate.
No reliable short-term interest rates exist for China or Russia.
2.  Spread over similar maturity U.S. Treasury security yield.  Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Korea,
the Philippines and Russia:  EMBI+ yield.  Chile and China:  Global bond yield. Malaysia:  Eurobondyield.  Thailand and Indonesia:  Yankee bond yield.  Taiwan, Singapore, and Hong Kong do not haveoutstanding sovereign bonds denominated in dollars.
3.  The fixed exchange rate in Argentina’s dual rate system used for some trade and government transactions.
It was set at 1.40 pesos/dollar in early January.  The Argentina sub-component of J.P. Morgan’s EMBI+index was reweighted on December 31, reducing the spread and making a precise comparison over theintermeeting period difficult.
n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.Long-term interest rates in the foreign industrial countries, as measured by the
yield on ten-year government bonds, were little changed, on average, over theintermeeting period.  The yield of the Canadian government ten-year bond fell17 basis points, largely mirroring movements of Treasuries.  Japanese equitieswere among the worst performing of the industrial countries over the period,with the broad-based Topix index setting a new post-bubble low, falling to alevel last seen in 1985.  A wide range of sectors declined over the period, withretailers hurt the most.  The Japanese banking sector was among the worstperformers throughout 2001, with share prices falling to a new 17-year low overthe period as investors appeared to grow impatient with the slow pace offinancial reform.  Prime Minister Koizumi suggested that further capitalinfusions into the banking sector could be forthcoming.  Amid these discussions,the yield on the benchmark Japanese government bond rose 8 basis points.
IV-13
Optimism over an impending global recovery helped share prices in Asia,
particularly in the countries with substantial exports of information technologygoods.  A sharp rebound in the price of semiconductor memory chips helped liftshares on the Malaysian, Taiwan and Korean stock markets 3 to 11 percent,continuing a rally that began in late September.  Share prices performed evenbetter in Indonesia and the Philippines, rising more than 15 percent over theperiod.
Owing primarily to uncertainty over changing banking and exchange rate
regulations and a lack of liquidity with which to conduct transactions, the stockmarket in Argentina was closed for much of the intermeeting period.  It reopenedlast week to soaring gains, as Argentine residents sought protection from adepreciating peso, particularly in light of the government’s announcement thatdollar deposits will be converted to pesos at a rate that has yet to be determined.  Following the default on some of its debt, the prices of Argentina’s bonds,which were at distressed levels before the December FOMC meeting, have falleneven further.  Thus far, there has been little sign of spillover to other marketsfrom the default and devaluation in Argentina.  Share prices have declined about3 percent in Brazil and Chile since the December FOMC meeting and have risenmore than 7 percent in Mexico.  The yield spread over Treasuries of Brazilianand Mexican debt has narrowed a bit, while Chilean debt widened a touch. The price of gold rose 3 percent, on balance, over the intermeeting period.  Ashort squeeze in the silver market had driven 1-month silver lease rates above 20percent for a couple of weeks, but more supply came on the lease market,sending silver lease rates back below 5 percent.
   
 .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for the accounts ofthe System or the Treasury.
IV-14
Developments in Foreign Industrial Countries
The latest GDP data confirm that activity in foreign industrial countries was
weak in the third quarter and indicators point to a slightly weaker fourth quarter. In Japan, third-quarter real GDP declined sharply, and more recent data suggestthe economy continued to deteriorate in the last three months of the year.  Euro-area data suggest that fourth-quarter activity may have contracted, while theUnited Kingdom’s rate of expansion likely slowed.  Canadian activity isrecovering from a steep fall in September, but remains below third-quarterlevels, suggesting a contraction on average in the last three months of 2001.
Inflation continued to decline, primarily reflecting lower oil prices.  The twelve-
month rate of consumer price inflation fell below the Bank of Canada’s targetrange in the fourth quarter, while retail price inflation in the United Kingdomremained below the Bank of England’s 2½ percent target.  Euro-area inflationretreated to 2.1 percent, just above the European Central Bank’s (ECB) targetceiling.  Deflation continued in Japan.
Data released late in the previous intermeeting period revealed that Japanese
real GDP declined 2.2 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the third quarter of last year, followinga revised 4.8 percent drop in the second quarter.  Personal consumption droppedmarkedly, as households curtailed spending amid rising unemployment andfalling real income.  A sharp rundown in inventories subtracted ½ percentagepoint from growth.  Private investment showed surprising strength, however,with business fixed investment rising about 4 percent.  Residential investmentalso rose about 4 percent, albeit from depressed levels.  Public investmentrebounded following a steep drop in the second quarter, adding about ¾percentage point to growth.  Both exports and imports continued to slide, withnet exports making a slight positive contribution to growth. 
Indicators suggest that the economy continued to deteriorate in recent months. 
The all-industry index fell 1 percent in October and November on average fromthe third quarter, with industrial production declining 2.8 percent over the sameperiod.  On average, core machinery orders in October and November wereroughly 10 percent below their third-quarter average level.  Shipments ofmachinery declined 2.1 percent in November.  Residential and nonresidentialbuilding starts also posted declines in October and November on averagecompared with the third-quarter.  Personal consumption presents a mixedpicture, with household expenditures up about 3½ percent on average in Octoberand November from the third-quarter, while new passenger car registrationsticked up in October but were still down slightly from their average third-quarterpace.
IV-15
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 200012000 2001
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP 2.3 -2.9 1.1 4.1 -4.8 -2.2
Total domestic demand 2.2 -3.0 2.9 4.9 -3.6 -2.4
Consumption .3 -5.4 2.6 7.7 -4.3 -6.6Private investment 11.0 5.3 12.8 -11.3 3.8 4.4Public investment -11.3 -11.8 -17.3 40.5 -35.4 13.5Government consumption 4.1 .7 .4 4.5 6.4 .4Inventories
2.1 -.2 .2 .1 -.0 -.5
Exports 9.7 4.1 -1.0 -6.9 -18.4 -12.4Imports 10.7 4.3 19.0 -1.7 -10.0 -17.1Net exports
2.1 .1 -1.7 -.6 -1.2 .2
1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Conditions in the labor market also worsened.  The unemployment rate rose to a
record 5.5 percent in November, and the job-offers-to-applicants ratio fell to0.53, its lowest level since March 2000.  Prices have continued to decline.  Coreconsumer goods prices in the Tokyo area (which exclude fresh food but includeenergy) were down 1 percent in December from a year earlier.  Deflation inwholesale prices for domestic goods has intensified, in part owing to lowerenergy prices.  The merchandise trade surplus (customs-clearance basis)widened  in November, as exports ticked up and weakening domestic demandcontinued to push imports lower. 
The Bank of Japan’s Tankan index of business conditions worsened further in
December, with the diffusion index for all enterprises falling to -40 from -36 inSeptember.  Survey respondents project a further decline in the index for March. The deterioration in December was broad based, with similar declines recordedin the manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors.  Other indicators from theTankan survey suggest that deflationary conditions are expected to persist. Expectations for sales growth in FY2001, which ends in March 2002, wererevised down and profits are now expected to slump 18.7 percent in FY2001,
IV-16
worse than the 9.2 percent fall expected in September.  Capital investment is
expected to fall about 6 percent in FY2001, roughly unchanged from projectionsin September.
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001
Q2 Q3 Q4 Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
Industrial production1-4.1 -4.3 n.a. -2.9 -.2 -1.7 n.a.
All-industry index -2.0 -1.9 n.a. -.9 -.5 .4 n.a.Housing starts -2.9 5.4 n.a. -3.4 -3.0 8.0 n.a.Machinery orders
21.1 -5.7 n.a. -13.2 -10.1 14.9 n.a.
Machinery shipments -7.2 -5.3 n.a. -5.7 .0 -2.1 n.a.New car registrations 1.7 -.3 n.a. -13.7 1.2 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
34.9 5.1 n.a. 5.3 5.4 5.5 n.a.
Job offers ratio4.61 .59 n.a. .57 .55 .53 n.a.
Business sentiment5-27 -36 -40 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)6-1.3 -1.2 -1.0 -1.2 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0
Wholesale prices6-.7 -1.0 -1.3 -1.1 -1.1 -1.4 -1.4
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, excluding ships and electric power.
3. Percent.4. Level of indicator.5. Tankan survey, diffusion index.6. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
On December 19, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) voted to ease monetary policy,
raising its target for the outstanding balance of financial institutions’ accountsheld at the BOJ to ¥10 trillion-15 trillion from "above ¥6 trillion." Since then,the balance has been around ¥14 trillion-15 trillion.  As part of the effort to easepolicy, the BOJ voted to increase the monthly amount of outright purchases oflong-term JGBs from ¥600 billion to ¥800 billion.  In addition, the BOJ decidedto increase the amount of commercial paper it will accept under repurchaseagreements.  The BOJ also announced measures to broaden the range ofinstruments that can be used in open-market operations to include asset-backedcommercial paper and real-estate backed securities.  The BOJ cited the
IV-17
"deterioration in the financial environment", including a tightening in credit
conditions, as the explanation for its decision.  On January 16, the BOJ voted toexpand the range of government bonds eligible for outright purchase to includebonds issued within the past year, excluding the two most recent issues. Previously, the BOJ only bought bonds that had not been issued within the pasttwelve months.  
The Cabinet approved the draft budget outline for FY2002 on December 24. 
The budget was submitted to the Diet in late January, with final approvalexpected in March.  The budget implies a slightly contractionary stance, evenwhen FY2001's second supplementary budget (the spending from which will notoccur until FY2002) is included.  Expenditures would be reduced 1.7 percent(about ¼ percent of GDP) relative to FY2001's initial budget.  Public worksspending is slated to decline about 10 percent, while outlays to publiccorporations would be cut roughly 20 percent, reflecting the government’sefforts to streamline such corporations.  Tax revenues are projected to declineabout 5½ percent from recently revised FY2001 estimates, although an increasein non-tax revenues is assumed.  The budget will require new bond issuestotaling ¥30 trillion, consistent with Prime Minister Koizumi’s pledge to capnew bond issuance at that amount.
In the euro area, economic activity likely contracted in the fourth quarter of last
year following third-quarter GDP growth of only ½ percent.  Industrialproduction declined 1.4 percent in October and a further .8 percent inNovember; for the two months on average, production was 1.8 percent below theaverage in the third quarter.  The purchasing managers index (PMI) for euro-areamanufacturing edged up in December, but remained below its third-quarteraverage, and signaled contraction in the manufacturing sector for the ninthconsecutive month.  Service sector PMIs recovered more vigorously inDecember to slightly below September levels, but for the fourth quarter onaverage are also consistent with contracting activity.  
More forward-looking indicators provide tentative signs of improvement.  The
volume of German industry orders picked up in November for the first timesince August.  Foreign orders recovered more than 2 percent but domestic ordersweakened a bit further.  Although euro-area economic sentiment remains atrelatively depressed levels, it edged up in December, the first monthlyimprovement in a year.  In the industrial survey, production expectations edgedup slightly although levels of inventory stocks appear to remain high.  In theconsumer survey, the outlook for the general economic situation also improvedsomewhat.
IV-18
Labor market data for the euro area as a whole continue to show only slight
deterioration, as the harmonized unemployment rate edged up to 8.5 percent inSeptember and remained at that rate in October and November.  Nationalstatistics show more pronounced increases in the French and Germanunemployment rates, while the Italian unemployment rate moved a bit lower.
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
1
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001
Q2 Q3 Q4 Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
Industrial production2-1.0 -.6 n.a. -.6 -1.4 -.8 n.a.
Retail sales volume .2 .3 n.a. .0 -1.1 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
38.5 8.4 n.a. 8.5 8.5 8.5 n.a.
Consumer confidence4-1.7 -7.7 -10.7 -9.0 -10.0 -12.0 -10.0
Industrial confidence5-5.3 -10.0 -17.0 -11.0 -16.0 -18.0 -17.0
Mfg. orders, Germany -1.5 -2.7 n.a. -4.1 -.4 .7 n.a.CPI
63.1 2.7 2.2 2.5 2.4 2.1 2.1
Producer prices63.9 1.7 n.a. .9 -.5 -1.1 n.a.
M365.4 6.8 n.a. 6.8 7.4 8.0 n.a.
1. Euro-area indicators include Greece only from January 2001.
2. Excludes construction.3. Euro-area standardized to ILO definition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some cases.4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries;
Averages of responses to questions on financial situation, general economic situation, andpurchasing attitudes.
5. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries;
Averages of responses to questions on production expectations, orders, and stocks.
6. Eurostat harmonized definition, 12-month percent change.     n.a.  Not available.
The twelve-month rate of euro-area consumer price inflation moved down to 2.1
percent in November and remained at that rate in December, just above theECB’s 2 percent target ceiling.  Core consumer price inflation (which excludesfood, energy, alcohol and tobacco) edged up to 2.3 percent in December on atwelve-month basis.  Producer prices continued to move lower, declining  inOctober and November from their year-earlier levels.
IV-19
The introduction of euro notes and coins is proceeding smoothly.  The ECB said
that by mid-January almost 95 percent of all cash transactions were conducted ineuros.  The ECB also stated that by January 17 the value of euro banknotes incirculation rose to 58 percent of the total value of all banknotes in circulation,including the national banknotes issued but not yet redeemed by national centralbanks.  For most euro-area countries, the change-over period, during which oldnational currencies can continue to be used, extends through the end of February.
Usage of cash machines in the euro area was two to four times the normal
volume in the first few days of the new year, and banks experienced long lines ofcustomers.  At the same time many people instead spent their remaining oldcurrency notes at retail establishments, which were supposed to give change ineuros, and for that reason the number of cash transactions was higher thannormal in many countries while credit card and debit payments declined,contrary to forecasts.  While the new euro notes are being introduced mainly bybanks and their ATMs, retailers have borne the burden of introducing the bulk ofthe euro coins and retiring the national currency coins.  Large retailers generallyhad prepared well in advance and reported few difficulties.  Smaller retailers, onthe other hand, were generally less well prepared and faced some initialdifficulties, including occasional shortages of euros for change.
Recent data for the fourth quarter in the United Kingdom  are mixed.  British
consumers continued to spend, as retail sales rose 1.3 percent for the quarter,though December sales were disappointing.  Although service sector growth hasbeen robust in recent quarters, the latest surveys suggest growth in this sectorslowed in the fourth quarter.  In contrast, the manufacturing sector continues tobe very weak with industrial production declining substantially in recent months.
Indicators for the current quarter remain mixed.  Both December consumer
confidence and January manufacturing business confidence recovered fromrecent lows to levels closer to their September values.  This recovery indicatesmanufacturing firms remain relatively pessimistic about the future, but suggeststhat the manufacturing sector may have bottomed out after declining for the pastyear.
Notwithstanding the recent slowing in activity, labor market conditions remain
tight.  The official claims-based unemployment rate remained at 3.2 percent inDecember, while the labor force survey measure of the unemployment rateremained at 5.1 percent for the three months centered in October.  Bothunemployment rates are near record lows.
The twelve-month rate of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage interest
payments) rose slightly to 1.9 percent  in December but still remains well below
IV-20
the Bank of England’s official target of 2.5 percent.  Growth in average earnings
dropped to 3.9 percent in November, below the 4.5 percent rate (from a yearearlier) that the Bank of England believes to be compatible with its inflationtarget.
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan.
Industrial production -1.1 -.8 n.a. -1.5 -.3 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales 1.7 1.5 1.3 .2 1.1 -.4 n.a.Unemployment rate
1
      Claims-based 3.2 3.1 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 n.a.      Labor force survey
25.0 5.1 n.a. 5.1 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence3-.7 -6.0 -24.0 -23.0 -21.0 -28.0 -13
Retail prices42.3 2.4 2.0 2.3 1.8 1.9 n.a.
Producer input prices54.4 -3.4 -9.1 -9.0 -10.8 -7.5 n.a.
Average earnings54.7 4.4 n.a. 4.4 3.9 n.a. n.a.
1. Percent.
2. Three-month average centered on month shown.3. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expecting output to decrease.
4. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.5. Percent change from year earlier.n.a.  Not available.
In Canada , indicators for the fourth quarter have been mixed. GDP declined 0.3
percent in October from its average third-quarter level, but rebounded somewhatfrom September’s depressed figure.  Industrial production followed a similarpattern in October, partially recovering from September’s steep fall butremaining 1.4 percent below the third-quarter average. In Novembermerchandise exports increased 1.3 percent from October, ending a seven-monthstring of declines.  Imports fell slightly, reaching a level last seen in September1999.  Manufacturing shipments increased 1.7 percent in November, ending afive-month period of negative or flat manufacturing sector indicators. Encouraged by local “zero-percent financing” incentives, motor vehicle salessurged 8.5 percent in November, with preliminary industry data indicatingfurther increases in December.  Retail sales excluding motor vehicles increased1.1 percent in October, more than reversing September’s fall.  In November,however, the large increase in auto sales masked a 0.6 percent decline in non-
IV-21
auto sales.  Residential construction, driven by low vacancy rates and low
financing costs, remained strong in the fourth quarter with December housingstarts reaching the highest level since 1991.  
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001
Q2 Q3 Q4 Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec.
GDP at basic prices .2 -.4 n.a. -.8 .3 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production -.1 -2.3 n.a. -2.3 .2 n.a. n.a.New mfg. orders 1.2 -3.4 n.a. -1.4 -4.0 2.7 n.a.Retail sales 2.1 -.8 n.a. -1.5 1.8 1.4 n.a.Employment .3 -.1 .1 .1 .0 .1 -.1Unemployment rate
17.0 7.1 7.6 7.2 7.3 7.5 8.0
Consumer prices23.6 2.7 1.1 2.6 1.9 .7 .7
Consumer attitudes3113.1 108.0 n.a. ... ... ... ...
Business confidence3131.6 93.0 n.a. ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
Labor market conditions softened dramatically in December as the
unemployment rate jumped to 8 percent, reflecting both declining employmentand a large increase in the labor force.  The fall in employment was the largestmonthly decline since 1998, and the first sign of reversal in what previously hadbeen a remarkably resilient labor market.
The twelve-month rate of consumer price inflation declined to 0.7 percent in
November, and remained at that level in December.  This places the rate ofinflation slightly below the Bank of Canada’s 1 to 3 percent target range.  Thedrop primarily reflects lower energy prices, though other prices decelerated a bitas well.
On January 15, the Bank lowered its policy rate 25 basis points to 2 percent,
bringing the cumulative reduction since the beginning of last year to 375 basispoints.  The accompanying statement cited weak business confidence both in
IV-22
Canada and abroad as the motivation for the latest cut, while also stating that the
move was consistent with returning the rate of inflation to its target level.
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2001
Q2 Q3 Q4 Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec.
Japan
Trade 50.3 55.6 n.a. 72.1 37.3 55.9 n.a.Current account 67.0 97.8 n.a. 119.8 118.0 132.9 n.a.
Euro area
Trade
126.4 61.5 n.a. 48.7 104.0 59.0 n.a.
Current account1-39.9 -3.7 n.a. -14.2 1.1 n.a. n.a.
Germany
Trade 66.1 87.4 n.a. 73.8 89.4 49.6 n.a.Current account -8.0 .1 n.a. -4.1 50.7 1.4 n.a.
France
Trade -.5 .9 n.a. .3 2.8 3.5 n.a.Current account 1.5 5.6 n.a. 3.2 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Italy
Trade 6.5 -1.5 n.a. 10.9 n.a. n.a. n.a.Current account
1-5.4 9.3 n.a. -2.7 25.0 n.a. n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -52.8 -46.0 n.a. -39.6 -40.3 n.a. n.a.Current Account -26.0 -11.7 n.a. ... ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 44.2 32.2 n.a. 33.1 31.0 34.4 n.a.Current Account 23.4 14.3 n.a. ... ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-23
Industrial Production in Selected Industrial Countries
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001901001101201301401994=100 Japan
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 200190100110120130140France
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 200190100110120130140Italy1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001901001101201301401994=100 Germany
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 200190100110120130140United Kingdom
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 200190100110120130140Canada
IV-24
Consumer Price Inflation in Selected Industrial Countries
(12-month change)
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001-2-10123456Japan
Percent
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 20010123456France
Percent
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 20010123456Italy
Percent1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 20010123456Germany
Percent
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 20010123456United Kingdom
Percent
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001-2-10123456Canada
Percent
IV-25
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Economic conditions in Latin America remain unfavorable.  Continued political
turmoil in Argentina has taken a further toll on the country’s already collapsingeconomy, and indicators point to stagnant growth in Brazil and Mexico.  In theAsian developing countries, conditions are mixed.  Growth in China remainsrobust, while Korea and the ASEAN countries are beginning to show signs ofrecovery from last year’s economic downturn.  In Hong Kong and Taiwan,however, indicators suggest continued weakness.
The situation in Argentina  worsened considerably over the intermeeting period. 
The implementation of capital controls, including limits on bank accountwithdrawals, in early December led to widespread protests and violence thatbrought down the de la Rua government on December 21.  Three presidentsfollowed in quick succession before the current president, Eduardo Duhalde, waselected by a national assembly to serve out the final two years of de la Rua’sterm.  One of the first acts of the new government was to suspend Argentina’scurrency board and establish a temporary dual exchange rate system comprisedof a fixed exchange rate of 1.4 pesos per dollar primarily for trade andgovernment transactions and a floating rate for other transactions.   Thegovernment has indicated its intention to remove the exchange rate peg withinsix months and implement a single floating exchange rate system.  
Following the resignation of de la Rua, the government announced the
suspension of debt payments to its private creditors.  Payments to theinternational financial institutions have so far been met, however.  To relievesome of the financing burden, the IMF board voted in mid-January to approveArgentina’s request for a year deferment of a $900 million repayment due underthe Supplemental Reserve Facility.  The IMF has sent several advisory teams toArgentina to help the new government, but formal negotiations regarding a newIMF program have not yet begun.
Amid changes in leadership and domestic unrest, the government has yet to
submit a 2002 budget for discussion.  The Duhalde government has lessenedonly slightly the significant restrictions placed on bank accounts.  Tension overthe importance of placating angry depositors versus protecting the financialsector led to the resignation of the central bank president.  Public proteststargeted at banks continue, and the political situation in the country remainshighly volatile.
IV-26
In tandem with the political upheaval has come severe economic disruption. 
International transactions, including trade, have all but ceased over the pastmonth.  Domestic output has also been impeded as payment systems havebroken down.  There is some evidence that prices are already moving up in theaftermath of the exchange rate depreciation.
Incoming data, which generally reflect conditions prior to the resignation of
de la Rua, are uniformly bad–imports fell 40 percent from their year-earlier levelin November, tax revenues were abysmal for December, and prices dropped1.5 percent over the twelve months ended December.  Argentine foreign-currency-denominated sovereign debt is trading at about a quarter of its facevalue.  The local stock market was closed from January 4 through January 16. Since reopening, the market is up about 25 percent, on balance, as Argentineresidents seek to switch from cash to other assets.  Transactions on the foreignexchange market, which opened on January 11, have so far been very limited buthave pushed the floating exchange rate toward 2 pesos per dollar, despiteintervention by the central bank.  
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP1 -1.9 n.a. -14.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -1.8 n.a. -3.1 n.a. -2.9 -.9 n.a.Unemployment rate
215.1 17.4 ... 18.3 18.3 ... ...
Consumer prices3 -.7 -1.5 -1.1 -1.6 -1.7 -1.6 -1.5
Trade balance42.6 n.a. 9.5 n.a. 10.7 12.5 n.a.
Current account5-8.9 n.a. -3.3 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data are released for May and October only.  Figures for Q4 reflect data
for October.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Mexico , weak external demand continued to sap the economy, although
production data provided some tentative signs of an improvement.  Overalleconomic activity (a monthly proxy for real GDP) declined in October andexports fell over 3½ percent in November.  However, industrial production rosemore than 1 percent in November.  The trade deficit widened considerably in
IV-27
November as imports fell much less than exports.  Inflation continued on its
downward trend; the twelve-month inflation rate for December was around4½ percent–half the rate in 2000 and well below the government’s 2001year-end target of 6½ percent.
In early January, the Mexican congress passed the fiscal budget for 2002 and
approved new tax measures.  The fiscal deficit for this year is targeted at0.65 percent of GDP.  This is the same as last year’s deficit and indicates acontinued commitment to fiscal discipline.  The new tax package is estimated bythe government to bolster tax revenues by over 1 percent of GDP, but it fallswell short of the tax reform bill proposed by the government last April and failsto address the fundamental issue of how to improve tax collection.  In earlyJanuary, the Mexican government issued $1.5 billion in 10-year global bonds ata spread of just 270 basis points above comparable U.S. treasuries.
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP15.2 n.a. -.9 n.a. ... ... ...
Overall economic activity 6.7 n.a. -.3 n.a. -.7 n.a. n.a.Industrial production 6.4 n.a. -.6 n.a. -1.0 1.2 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.2 2.4 2.4 2.8 3.0 2.6 2.8
Consumer prices3 9.0 4.4 6.0 5.2 5.9 5.4 4.4
Trade balance4-8.0 n.a. -9.5 n.a. -10.7 -14.3 n.a.
Imports4174.5 n.a. 165.6 n.a. 164.0 162.0 n.a.
Exports4166.5 n.a. 156.1 n.a. 153.3 147.6 n.a.
Current account5-18.1 n.a. -12.6 n.a. ... ... n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Brazil , incoming data point to continued weakness in the fourth quarter. 
Industrial output rose 1.4 percent in November, reflecting the end of thePetrobras strike, but was down significantly from year-earlier levels.  Theunemployment rate edged up to 7 percent in November.  Inflation neverthelessended the year at 7.7 percent, up from 6 percent in 2000, and above the 6 percent
IV-28
upper limit of the government’s target range for inflation.  The rise reflected, in
part, the strong depreciation of the currency through the third quarter of 2001. The depreciation, as well as weak activity, contributed to an improvement in thetrade balance, which shifted from a small deficit in 2000 to a surplus of about$2½ billion in 2001. 
So far, Brazil has been affected relatively little by the turmoil in Argentina, with
asset prices boosted by good news on the fiscal front and the improving tradebalance.  The primary (non-interest) fiscal balance for the combined publicsector in 2001 through November was over 4 percent of GDP.  Although apublic sector deficit is anticipated for December, for the year as a whole, theprimary fiscal surplus is expected to be over the country's IMF program target of3.4 percent of GDP.  The central bank has nevertheless kept its benchmarkovernight interest rate at 19 percent to curb inflationary pressures.  In earlyJanuary, the Brazilian government issued $1.25 billion in 10-year bonds inglobal markets at a spread of 750 basis points above U.S. Treasuries. 
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP14.3 n.a. .5 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 6.6 n.a. -1.8 n.a. -1.8 1.4 n.a.Unemployment rate
27.1 n.a. 6.1 n.a. 6.8 7.0 n.a.
Consumer prices36.0 7.7 6.6 7.5 7.2 7.6 7.7
Trade balance4-.7 2.6 6.3 9.2 8.0 10.0 9.7
Current account5-24.6 n.a. -16.3 n.a. -29.2 -19.1 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  “Open” unemployment rate.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Indications are that Venezuelan  GDP for 2001 likely rose at a rate well below
the almost 6 percent registered in 2000.  Inflation remained relatively subdued,coming in at 12.3 percent for the year ended December.  Government revenueshave been declining in step with oil prices, and projections are for a sizablefiscal imbalance in 2002.  In response, President Chavez proposed tax increasesin January, including the imposition of a bank transaction tax.  With the
IV-29
weakening economy and heightened political uncertainty, capital continues to
leave the country and the exchange rate is coming under increasing pressure. For 2001, reserves (including the macroeconomic stabilization fund) fell$2 billion.  In the first few weeks of January, the decline was almost $1 billion. The rate of crawl of the peg has been adjusted to 10 percent in 2002 comparedwith 7 percent last year.
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP1 5.7 n.a. 1.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 n.a. 13.4 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices313.4 12.3 12.7 12.4 12.3 12.7 12.3
Non-oil trade balance4-10.8 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance418.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account513.4 n.a. 3.2 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Korea , recent indicators suggest that activity has continued to move up. 
Industrial production increased strongly in November, more than reversing thedecline of the previous month.  Department store sales and producers’ shipmentsalso rose in November, as the inventory to shipments ratio declined further. Production has held up this year despite a substantial fall off of exports.  Thisdivergence between production and exports–unusual in Korea’s history–hasreflected the strength of domestic demand.  Domestic demand has beensurprisingly robust this past year, with demand shifting in recent months fromconsumption to construction investment and government spending.  Bothbusiness and consumer sentiment moved up smartly in November, the latterprobably boosted by a further decline in the unemployment rate.
IV-30
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP15.2 n.a. 5.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 17.0 n.a. 1.6 n.a. -1.5 1.9 n.a.Unemployment rate
24.1 3.7 3.5 3.4 3.5 3.5 3.3
Consumer prices33.1 3.2 4.3 3.4 3.5 3.4 3.2
Trade balance416.9 n.a. 11.9 n.a. 6.6 12.0 n.a.
Current account511.4 n.a. 3.8 n.a. 3.0 8.3 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Since the last Greenbook, data from the ASEAN  region indicate that last year’s
steep economic downturn may have ended in the fourth quarter.  Recentindustrial production data have been positive in much of the region, and forMalaysia and Singapore–the countries hit hardest by last year’s economicswoon–the surge in production has been particularly strong.  Recent trade datahave been mixed, with trade surpluses in Indonesia and Malaysia, the region’snet oil exporters, shrinking somewhat in November, and surpluses widening inthe rest of the region.  Inflation has slowed in every country in the region exceptfor Malaysia, where it is still at a very low level.
IV-31
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 1999 20002001
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 6.4 5.7 6.2 -1.0 ... ...
Malaysia 11.5 6.4 -8.5 1.0 ... ...Philippines 5.1 3.9 6.4 2.7 ... ...Singapore 8.0 11.0 -9.7 -11.1 ... ...Thailand 6.4 3.1 .8 .9 ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia3-.9 11.6 3.1 -1.9 -.4 2.4 .5
Malaysia 9.1 19.1 -5.3 1.2 -1.3 .2 3.1Philippines 3.6 14.9 -1.1 5.2 -6.6 1.1 n.a.Singapore 13.9 15.3 -6.3 -8.5 -4.8 7.7 7.7Thailand 12.5 3.2 -.3 .3 -.1 1.5 1.0
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Indonesia 28.6 n.a. 27.8 n.a. 29.8 23.2 n.a.
Malaysia 16.0 n.a. 15.0 n.a. 13.0 11.4 n.a.Philippines 6.7 n.a. -.1 n.a. 6.0 6.2 n.a.Singapore 3.3 5.8 4.7 6.5 2.0 8.4 9.0Thailand 5.5 n.a. 3.7 n.a. 1.6 1.9 n.a.
n.a.  Not available.
IV-32
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20001200112001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Indonesia 9.3 12.5 12.8 12.6 12.5 12.9 12.5
Malaysia 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.2 .9 1.5 1.2Philippines 6.7 3.9 6.4 4.6 5.4 4.4 3.9Singapore 2.1 n.a. .8 n.a. .2 -.2 n.a.Thailand 1.3 .8 1.6 1.0 1.4 1.0 .8
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available.
In China , recent indicators point to continued growth.  China's GDP rose
7.5 percent in 2001 supported, in part, by fixed-asset investment by state-ownedenterprises and inflows of foreign direct investment (FDI).  Indicators of futureinflows of FDI remain strong.  Industrial production edged up in December, butconsumer prices declined modestly in November and December, largely as aresult of a government freeze on school fees and a price liberalization, whichlowered the cost of some services.  Exports and imports fell in December, butboth were up significantly relative to a year earlier.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP18.0 7.5 7.1 7.1 ... ... ...
Industrial production211.4 8.9 8.5 8.5 8.8 7.9 8.7
Consumer prices21.5 -.3 .8 -.1 .2 -.3 -.3
Trade balance324.1 23.1 8.3 36.3 30.6 42.4 35.9
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
IV-33
China announced that, in light of the expected pickup in investment following
entry into the WTO, it plans to abolish the favorable tax treatment granted toforeign firms for the past two decades.  Foreign firms currently pay 15 percent inincome tax, as compared with 33 percent for domestic firms.  Various proposalsare under consideration, but the most likely would be to raise the corporate taxrate for foreign firms while lowering the rate for domestic corporations.
Data received since the last FOMC meeting suggest that economic conditions in
Hong Kong  have deteriorated.  The unemployment rate increased to 6.1 percent
in the fourth quarter, the highest level since 1999.  The index of retail salesvolume was up nearly 2 percent in November, but remains well below the levelat the end of the summer.  The trade deficit widened in November as exports andimports both declined modestly, and consumer prices fell 3.5 percent over thetwelve months ended December.
 
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP16.6 n.a. 1.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate25.1 4.9 5.3 6.1 5.5 5.8 6.1
Consumer prices3-2.1 -3.5 -1.0 -2.1 -1.2 -1.4 -3.5
Trade balance4-11.0 n.a. -14.0 n.a. -9.9 -11.8 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Indicators released over the past month for Taiwan  were negative, on balance. 
The unemployment rate edged up to 5.3 percent in November, industrialproduction fell 3.7 percent in December, and consumer prices declined inNovember and December from a year earlier.  However, the trade balanceimproved with exports and imports both registering significant increases inDecember, and the Council of Economic Planning and Development’s index ofleading indicators rose in November.  
IV-34
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP13.8 n.a. -3.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate23.0 n.a. 4.9 n.a. 5.2 5.3 n.a.
Industrial production 7.4 -7.5 -1.6 1.8 8.0 -1.3 -3.7Consumer prices
31.7 -1.7 .0 -.6 1.0 -1.1 -1.7
Trade balance48.3 15.7 11.7 21.3 16.4 21.9 25.6
Current account58.9 n.a. 17.9 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.