Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 5/20/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                             September 10, 2003
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                September 10, 2003
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
1. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) estimates that the mid-August blackout, which
occurred during the reference week for the establishment survey, had only a small depressing
effect on total production-worker hours.Domestic Nonfinancial Developments
Overview
The pace of economic expansion app ears to be picking up, although the
indicators have not been uniformly positive.  Domestic final demand hasstrengthened appreciably in recent months, with solid gains in both householdand business spending.  But firms have c ontinued to liquidate  inventories and to
shed workers.  Core consumer price inflation has rebounded in the past few
months from the extraordinarily low rates of earlier this year; even so, thetwelve-month change in core CPI pri ces was 1-1/2 percent in July, about
3/4 percentage point less than the increase a year earlier.
Labor Market Developments
The labor market continue d to deteriorate in August.  Reflecting widespread
losses, private nonfarm payroll employ ment fell 67,000 last month after similar
declines in June and July.  Only construction (+19,000) a nd health services
(+25,000) enjoyed substantial job ga ins, while manufacturing (-44,000),
transportation (-7,000), wholesale tr ade (-10,000), information (-16,000), and
professional and business se rvices (-28,000) posted sizable losses.  Temporary
help-supply services added only 7,000 jobs in August, and the July gain in thatindustry was revised down 30,000, to just 12,000.
The average workweek of production or  nonsupervisory workers was unchanged
last month at 33.6 hours, 0.1 hour be low its second-quarter average.
1  With
declining employment and a flat work week, aggregate production-worker hours
fell 0.1 percent in August, to a level 2.1 percent (annual rate ) below the second-
quarter average.  However, hours work ed by the self-employed—an especially
volatile series—increased rapidly for the second mont h in a row after having
plummeted in the second quarter.
In the household survey, the unemploym ent rate ticked dow n to 6.1 percent in
August.  After having hovered around 5-3/ 4 percent between the first quarter of
2002 and the first quarter of 2003, the jobl ess rate has exceeded 6 percent since
April.  Meanwhile, the labor force partic ipation rate remain ed at 66.2 percent in
August.  The number of job losers unemplo yed less than five weeks as a percent
of household employment edged down in August, suggesting that layoffscontinue to abate from their elevated pace in the spring.
Indeed, the four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment
insurance has remained around of 400,000 si nce early August, while the four-
week moving average of insured unemployment has crept down a bit since thebeginning of the summer, a lthough it remains above its le vel early in the year.  
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
2. The upward revision to productivity reflects our expectation that output in the second
quarter will be revised up as a result of the data in the latest construction-put-in-place (CPIP)
report.  We now estimate that real GDP rose 3.3 percent at an annual rate, and output in the NFB
sector rose 4.7 percent.  The difference between these two output measures in the second quarter
was unusually large and likely due, in part, to the heavy refinancing activity.  The BEA treats
refinancing as an intermediate input produced by the financial services sector and consumed by
the housing sector.  Thus, heavy refinancing acted to reduce net housing output in the second
quarter.  Because the housing sector is largely excluded from the NFB sector (and the financial
services sector is included), the treatment of refinancing raised NFB output growth relative to
GDP growth.Similarly, layoff announcements compiled by the outplacement firm Challenger,
Gray, and Christmas, Inc., and seasonally adjusted by FRB staff, fell in August
to 73,000, the fourth straight monthly d ecline.  Furthermore, the National
Federation of Independent Businesses reported that sm all business hiring plans
rose again last month.  
Nonetheless, finding a job apparently remains difficult.  The number of long-
term unemployed as a percent of the labor force—though down a bit in
August—remained close to its recent peak.  Also, consumer perceptions ofcurrent labor market conditions as re ported in the Conference Board survey
continued to deteriorate last mont h, although the Conference Board and
Michigan Survey measures of expected conditions stayed near the high end oftheir recent ranges.  
According to the BLS, output per hour in the nonfarm business (NFB) sector
increased at an annual rate of 6.8 per cent in the second quarter, and we expect
that figure to be revised up to 7.1 percent.
2  We estimate that  labor productivity 
Labor Productivity
(Percent ch ange from preceding period at compound annua l rate;
based on seasonally adjusted rate)
2002 2003
2001120021Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
Total business 3.2 4.2 5.9 1.5 2.7 7.2    Nonfarm business 3.2 4.4 5.9 1.7 2.1 6.8       Previous 3.2 4.4 5.9 1.7 2.1 5.7    Manufacturing 2.9 5.1 6.7  -.4 4.0 3.7    Nonfinancial        corporations
24.2 4.4 3.1 3.8 4.3 8.1
  1.  Changes are from fourth quarter of preceding year to fourth quarter of year shown.
  2.  Nonfinancial corporate sector includes all corporations doing business in the United States
except banks, stock and commodity brokers, and finance and insurance companies; the sector
accounts for about two-thirds of business employment.
II-6
II-7
3. The drop in manufacturing hours using FRB seasonals is considerably larger than the
0.2 percent drop estimated by the BLS.  The gap between the two measures of the change in
hours is the result of differences in seasonal adjustment related to the timing of the July 4 holiday
and reverses a discrepancy that cropped up in July.  
4. We think that the power outage had only a small negative effect on manufacturing
production for August as a whole.  Reports from the motor vehicle industry suggest that
blackout-related losses were partly made up by the end of the month, while low rates of capacity
utilization elsewhere likely allowed many firms to make up lost production within the month. 
Also, although some manufacturers with continuous processing such as steel and refineries
probably experienced disruptions, the losses were apparently small relative to their normal
month-to-month variations in output.rose 4-1/4 percent over the four quarter s ending in the second quarter of 2003,
about 1 percentage point below the in crease over the preceding four quarters but
well above the average gains in the late  1990s.  The latest Productivity and Cost
release also included the fi rst look at productivity in the nonfinancial corporate
sector, which rose at an annual rate of 8.1 percent in the second quarter and
4.8 percent over the past year.
Industrial Production
Industrial production posted a solid increase in July and appears to have edged
up further in August.  Utilities made another positive contribution to total IP lastmonth as the boost to electricity de mand from the unusually warm weather
more than offset the effects of the power outage.  However, manufacturing
output was restrained by an unexpect ed drop in motor vehicle assemblies,
which fell to 11.7 million units at an annual rate in August.  Outside of motor
vehicles, output in manufacturing industr ies for which we have weekly physical
product data—principa lly, iron and steel, crude o il and refinery products,
appliances, meat products, and lumb er and plywood—was about flat, in
aggregate, in August.  In putting together our estimate of IP for August, we arediscounting much of the reported dr op in hours of manufacturing production
workers (1 percent using FRB seasona ls) because it probably reflects the time
lost temporarily due to the power out age during the survey reference week.
3 
Using an estimate of hours that should be more representative of activity for the
month as a whole, we think that manufacturing output was little changed.4 
In July, developments in the high-tech industries remained une ven; output in the
computer and semiconductor industrie s once again posted increases, while
production of communications equipment continued to decline.  However,
forward-looking indicators for the high-tech sector now seem relatively upbeat. 
For example, Intel has significantly boos ted its third-quarter  revenue projection
to a level that is consistent w ith a sharp acceleration in semiconductor 
II-8
II-9
II-10
5. The midpoint of Intel’s revenue guidance of September 4 is 8.8 percent (not an a nnual
rate) above the company’s actual second-quarter revenues and is a marked acceleration relative
to the increase of 3 percent per quarter averag ed during the preceding three quarters.  In its
public statements, the company has been hesitant  to draw any conclusions about the imminence
of a recovery in the high-tech sector.
6. The production of leading-edge semiconducto r chips is an exception.   According to the
Semiconductor Industry Association, at least some of the plants that produce these chips are
currently operating at high rates of utilization.production.5  Much of the pickup appears to be in the high-value
microprocessors and memory chips used  in personal comput ers, particularly
mobile computers such as laptops.  Un it shipments of servers, which are far
fewer in number but of much greater va lue, increased 11 percent (not at an
annual rate) in the second qua rter, and Gartner, a rese arch and advisory firm,
expects an additional gain in the third quarter.  In addition, the diffusion index
compiled by CIO Magazine  for future spending on computer hardware rose
further in August; the diffusion index for data-networking equipment (such as
routers, switches, and hubs) has been choppy recently, but it too has trended up
over the past several months.
According to the Board staff’s fl ow-of-goods system, days’ supplies of
computers and semiconductors are at re latively low levels; therefore, any
pickup in demand for computing products should quickly translate intoincreased production.  In addition, alt hough the utilization rates in these
industries have trende d up since 2001, enough slack remains to easily
accommodate a significant expansion of activity.
6  In contrast, because the
days’ supply for communicati ons equipment remains el evated, stronger demand
may not translate as readily into a rise in production.  
The performance of the various IP mark et groups excluding high-tech products,
energy, and motor vehicles and parts was mixed in July.  The output of business
equipment increased for a third consecu tive month, and the output of defense
and space equipment continued its recen t upward trend.  In contrast, the
production of business and construction supplies chan ged little, and materials
output continued a downward slide that has lasted for nearly a year.  The
production of consumer goods also droppe d in July, but smoothing through the
monthly volatility, this series has essentially moved sideways since late lastyear.
Indicators of near-term production point to  a pickup in the industrial sector in
the coming months.  The staff’s series on real adjusted durable goods orders has
risen steadily in recent months, and the new orders diffusion index from the 
II-11
Institute for Supply Management has been above 50 since May.  The new
orders diffusion indexes provided in the various regional surveys generally
paint a picture similar to that of the ISM and are consistent with faster growth inIP over the next couple of months.
New Orders for Durable Goods 
(Percent change from preceding period except as noted; seasonally adjusted)
ComponentProportion,
2003: H1
(percent)2003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Total orders 100.0 0.7 -0.2 0.0 2.5 1.0
Adjusted orders175.0 0.6 -0.8 2.0 1.5 1.1
Computers 4.0 -4.7 13.4 -2.0 3.4 0.5 
Communication equipment 4.0 25.6 -8.9 -5.5 0.4 13.4
Other capital goods 24.0 2.0 0.3 2.7 1.9 -2.1
Other243.0 -1.4 -2.0 2.7 1.2 1.9
MEMO
Real adjusted orders     . . . 1.0 -0.5 2.0 1.7 1.2
Excluding high tech    . . . 0.2 -1.2 1.5 1.9 0.5
1. Orders excluding defense capital goods, nondefense aircraft, and motor vehicle parts.
2. Primary metals, most fabricated metals, most stone, clay, and glass products, household
appliances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods.
. . .  Not applicable.
Motor Vehicles
Sales of light motor vehicles jumped in  August to an annual rate of 18.9 million
units, more than 1-1/2 million units above the July pace.  One factorcontributing to the rise in sales was a further sweetening of incentives on 2003
model-year vehicles.  Indeed, the average incentive per vehicle moved up
another $170, to $2570.  In addition, the tax cut boosted consumers’ after-tax
incomes.  According to the Michigan Survey, car-buying attitudes slipped inAugust but remained relatively high.  In  the near term, both the continuation of
heavy incentives on 2003 model-year vehi cles and the introduction of several
widely anticipated new models for 2004 should help bolster consumer demand.
Business demand for motor vehicles appears to be firming, mainly because of
stronger demand for trucks .  Sales of both heavy and medium trucks have
improved in recent months, and net orders  have trended up as well.  According
to industry contacts, purchases of trucks  may have been boosted by the partial
expensing provisions of the latest tax bill.  Fleet sales of light vehicles in Augustrose above July’s low level, but so far this year they have tracked a bit below
last year’s pace.
II-12
II-13
II-14
II-15
7. The UAW is reported to be close to concluding a simultaneous deal with all Big Three
manufacturers.Total motor vehicle production rose in July to 12.2 million units at an annual
rate but fell to 11.7 million units in Au gust.  August’s production rate was
damped by a combination of plant closur es for inventory control, power outages
in the Northeast and Midwest, and start-up difficulties with new model-yearvehicles.  Automakers plan to make up much of this production loss and have
raised September’s assembly plans to  12.9 million units.  As a result of the
strong sales pace over the summer, invent ories of automobiles and trucks have
fallen significantly from their high levels in the first half of the year.  With saleslikely to fall back appreciably in September from the elevated August rate,automakers have schedul ed assemblies in the f ourth quarter at 11.7 million
units.
7
Consumer SpendingConsumer spending advanced briskly th rough July, and the indicators in hand
point to another solid increase in Au gust.  Disposable income has been
supported by the recent tax cuts, including  both the reduction in withholding and
the advance refunds of the child tax cr edit.  In addition, consumer confidence
remains well above the leve ls recorded earlier this year, and the stock market
has continued to rise.  However, the b ackup in interest ra tes since late June
should exert some restraint on consumption going forward.
Real personal consumption expenditures climbed 0.6 percent in July after an
upward-revised 0.4 percent gain in J une.  All major categories of outlays
recorded increases in July.  In August, weekly data on chain store sales areconsistent with another appreciable increase in retail sales, and—as noted
earlier—sales of light motor vehicles so ared.  Moreover, unusually hot weather
likely left spending on energy services  up for the month despite the blackout. 
Real disposable income jumped 1.3 percen t (monthly rate) in July because of a
sharp reduction in tax paym ents; pre-tax income was essentially unchanged in
real terms.  With the second and th ird rounds of advance refunds reaching
households in August, another sizable gain  in disposable income seems likely. 
Because households spent only part of th e additional July income, the personal
saving rate moved up 0.7 per centage point, to 3.8 percent.
The Michigan Survey Research Center’s index of consumer sentiment edged
down in August, while the Conference Boar d’s index rose a bit.  Both measures
of confidence stand well above their March lows but ha ve moved little, on
balance, in recent months.  Looking back over the past year, however, the
indexes have diverged noticeably, with the Michigan index rising a touch, onnet, and the Conference Board index falling.  This divergence is due primarily to 
II-16
II-17
II-18
II-19
the deterioration in the current-conditi ons component of the Conference Board
measure, which incorporates questions about current busine ss and labor-market
conditions that are not included in the overall Michigan index.
Housing Markets
Housing construction and sa les remained very str ong in July.  However,
mortgage rates began to c limb in late June.  Shifts  in housing activity typically
lag movements in mortgage rates by a fe w months, and the effects of the run-up
in rates should begin to show th rough to starts and sales soon.
In July, starts of single-family houses  rose to an annua l rate of 1.52 million
units, the fastest pace in nearly twenty -five years, and permit issuance—adjusted
for activity in areas where permits are not required—remained very strong at1.47 million units.  However, the ratio of st arts to permits wa s atypically high,
and, together with the escalating mort gage rates, suggests that single-family
construction is likely to drop back so me in coming months.  Meanwhile, home
sales were around record leve ls in July as new home sales fell only a little after
having surged to an annual rate of 1.20 million units in June and existing home
sales jumped to an annua l rate of 6.1 million units.
In the multifamily sector, starts remain ed at an annual rate of 350,000 units in
July, a level in line with the average ove r the past year and a half.  However,
permit issuance for multifamily units fell n early 10 percent, and the vacancy rate
in the second quarter was a record high.
Other indicators of housing demand have generally re mained robust, although
some restraint from higher mortgage ra tes seems to be emerging.  The four-
week moving average of the Mortgage Bankers Association index of purchase
applications declined 7 percent throug h early September from its high in late
July.  However, attitudes toward homebuying in the Michigan Survey were atroughly the same level in August as they  had been in June, with nearly three-
quarters of those who said it was a g ood time to buy mentioning low mortgage
rates as a reason.  Perhaps one sign of changing attitudes was an increase in the
proportion of respondents citing a need to borrow in anticipation of rising
mortgage rates.
Available measures of house prices rose  noticeably in July, with the median
price of new homes up 9 percent from a year ago and the median price of
existing homes up 12 percent.  However, th ese series are erratic.  Measures that
are less affected by compositional changes, such as the quality-adjusted price ofnew homes and the repeat-sales price of existing homes, showed increases of4 to 6 percent over the year ending in the second quarter; these increases,
although substantial, were  toward the lower end of their recent ranges.
II-20
II-21
Equipment and Software
Real business outlays for equipment and software are currently estimated by theBEA to have increased at an annual rate  of 8 percent in the second quarter, and
the orders and shipments data for July suggest that this momentum carried over
into the third quarter.  The pickup in e quipment and software spending appears
to be broad-based and is consistent with the improving prospects for business
output and the step-up in cash flow this year.  Reports from the Beige Book andour business contacts, as well as reve nue guidance by makers of high-tech
equipment and software, have improved over the past month but are still shadedwith caution.
In the high-tech sector, nominal ship ments of computing equipment surged
10-1/2 percent (monthly rate) in July after a similar increase in June, andshipments of communications equipm ent declined only a bit after an
extraordinary jump in June.  Outside the high-tech sector, shipments moved up
nearly 2 percent in July, with a rise in the machinery subcategory accounting formost of the increase.   Looking forwar d, new orders for computers are trending
up, in line with the trajectory of sh ipments, and bookings for communications
equipment appear to have  bottomed out.  While new orders apart from high-tech
slipped in July, they have increased, on balance, since the beginning of this
year—a development that suggests ongoing  gains in spending in this broad
category.
In the transportation sector, a sizable in crease in spending on medium and heavy
trucks appears to be under way this quarter, although fl eet sales of light vehicles
remain lackluster.  Business spending on aircraft dropped s ubstantially in the
second quarter, but domestic shipments of aircraft leveled off in July.
II-22
II-23
II-24
II-25
8. Incorporating the revisions to spending in May and June from the latest CPIP release, we
estimate that real outlays for nonresidential construction increased at an annual rate of
5-1/2 percent in the second quarter, compared with a 7 percent rise in the BEA’s preliminary
GDP estimate. 
9. The Census Bureau recently  released the annual revision to manufacturers’ shipments,
orders, and inventories.  The new data include an upward revision to stocks in 2002, which taken
together with small revisions to shipments, implies a shallower decline in the manufacturing
inventory-shipments ratio in late 2001 and early 2002 than had previously been reported.Nonresidential Construction
Nonresidential construction expenditures have remained  very soft after having
plummeted in 2001 and 2002.  Although cons truction rose mode rately in the
second quarter, the increase was from an exceptionally low level and was
reversed in July.8  In the office sector, spending has declined in recent months,
as the already-high vacancy rates continue d to rise and rents continued to fall. 
Expenditures for industrial buildings, wh ere the vacancy rate is also quite
elevated, fell again in July, and spe nding for lodging facilities also dropped. 
Outlays for institutional construction, whic h comprise educational, religious and
hospital structures, declined in July as well.
On a brighter note, nominal spending  on construction of non-office commercial
structures—which includes retail space and warehouses—has ri sen appreciably
in recent months.  Although rents on retail and warehouse properties remained
below their year-earlier values in the s econd quarter, the four-quarter changes in
property values moved further into positive territory.  Expenditures for drillingand mining are also likely rising in the third quarter, but the rise is likely to besmaller than in the second quarter because  of a more moderate increase in oil
and gas drilling activity.
Business In ventories
Real nonfarm NIPA inventories excluding motor vehicles fell at an annual rate
of $29 billion in the second quarter, and pa rtial data for July suggest that the
runoff has continued into the current quarter.  The book value of manufacturing
inventories declined at an annual rate of $28 billi on in July, as stocks of
nondurable goods edged down and stocks of durable goods, led by a large
liquidation of aircraft, continued their long-running downward trend. 
Meanwhile, the book value of wholesale inventories excluding motor vehicles
increased at an annual rate of $8 billion, owing to a large accumulation by
wholesalers of drugs.  
With sizable gains in manufacturing sh ipments, book-value inventory-shipments
ratios moved down considerably in Ju ly; book-value invent ory-sales ratios at
wholesalers remained unchanged at a low level by historical standards.
9  In
general, inventory stocks appear to be fairly lean across most categories of
manufacturing and trade.
II-26
II-27
10. The Board staff’s flow-of-g oods system measures changes in inventories by tracking the
flow of goods in the economy.  The system divides the output from the sta ff’s industrial
production indexes into more than sixty different  product categories.  For each product category,
the system estimates the supply of goods flowing into the economy–that is, domestic production
plus imports.  The system then estimates how much of the supply flows out, whether as final
demand, including exports, or as inputs for other goods.  The difference between the amount
flowing in and the amount flowing out represents that change in inventories; we find inventory
accumulation if inflows exceed outflows and inve ntory liquidation if outflows exceed inflows. 
The inventories are measured wherever he ld and valued at factory-gate prices.The days’ supply for total IP in the fl ow-of-goods system has been volatile but
moving sideways, on balance, since the early part of 2002.10  Excluding motor
vehicles and parts, the inventory-cons umption ratio has declined, on balance,
since the end of 2001.  The only industries with elevated days’ supply levels are
paper, communications equipment, and, to  a lesser degree, electrical equipment.
The days’ supply for NIPA factory-valu e inventories has declined since the
beginning of 2002.  Excluding motor ve hicles and parts, the flow-of-goods
system and NIPA series have tr acked reasonably well since then. 
Federal Government Sector
The federal unified budget balance is being pushed further into deficit by
increases in defense spending associated with Iraq and by diminished incometax receipts resulting from the Jobs a nd Growth Tax Relie f Reconciliation Act
(JGTRRA).  Indeed, the deficit for the tw elve months ending in July deepened
to $336 billion, compared with $190 billion for the preceding twelve months. Meanwhile, the Congressional Budget  Office (CBO) released new budget
projections showing much larger deficits  than it had anticipated last winter.  
Federal receipts in July fell about 8 percent from the year-earlier level, a
decrease that largely reflects the impact of the tax legislation enacted in lateMay.  The decline in individual withheld  and payroll taxes is consistent with
new withholding tables in effect si nce late June, while the $4-1/2 billion
increase in individual ref unds matches the amount of  the child-credit refund
checks that were mailed out by the IR S on July 25.  The remaining batches of
checks were issued on August 1 and August 8.
Outlays, adjusted for financial transactions and payment-timing shifts, rose 
8-1/2 percent in July over year-earlier levels.  Increases were especially large fordefense spending, which was 17 percent hi gher than it was in July 2002, and for
Medicaid, which was boosted by the st ate-aid provision of the JGTRRA. 
Judging from the daily data on vendor pa yments, defense spending hit a lull in
August and early September.
The Administration has announced that it will request an additional $87 billion
in budget authority to help pay for ac tivities in Iraq and Afghanistan.   The 
II-28
II-29
II-30
11. The CPIP release for July contained sizable upward revisions to the figures for May and
June, mainly for educational facilities and highways.  After taking account of these revisions, we
estimate that total real state and local spending was essentially unchanged in the second quarter,
compared with the BEA’s preliminary estimate of a decline of 0.7 percent (annual rate). requested amount exceeds the $79 billion pr ovided by the defense supplemental
enacted last April.   Although details are sketchy, the new request likely will
include about $66 billion for military and intelligence operations and $20 billion
for reconstruction. 
The CBO now expects the unified budget deficit to total $401 billion in fiscal
2003, and the monthly and daily data in ha nd are consistent with that estimate. 
The CBO projects a baseline federal budg et deficit of $480 billion in fiscal
2004.  It expects the budget to remain in the red through 2011, although thedeficits are projected to shrink appreciably  after next year and turn into small
surpluses in 2012 and 2013.  
A variety of conventions that the CBO uses in constructing its longer-term
projections are important in shaping those estimates.  For example, the CBObaseline projections assume that, on an inflation-adjusted basis, discretionary
spending will continue at its current level in future years.  The level ofdiscretionary spending in 2003 in cludes $80 billion in supplemental
appropriations, mainly for our activities in Iraq.  As a result, the baselineeffectively assumes that this  year’s funding for the war in Iraq will be renewed
each year with adjustments for inflati on.  Nevertheless, ba seline discretionary
outlays over the 2004-13 period average 7 percent of GDP, less than the
7-1/2 percent average seen during the 1990s.  At the same time, the baseline
projections assume no change s to mandatory programs or tax laws currently in
place.  For example, the CBO assumes that tax provisions scheduled to expirebetween now and 2013 will actually do so; according to the CBO, extending theexpiring provisions would add a cumulative $2 trillion to the deficit over thisperiod, if not offset by other policy actions.
State and Local Government Sector
Real expenditures on consumption a nd investment by state and local
governments were flat over the first ha lf of the year and appear to have
remained subdued in the third quarter.  Outlays for construction projects edged
down in July after having risen for three months.
11  Also, state and local
employment fell 21,000 in August after an upward-revised increase of 11,000 in
July.  Virtually all of the movement in employment over the past two months
has been at the local level, where non-e ducational payrolls ha ve fallen in six out
of the past seven months.  
According to a new report from the National League of Cities, states reduced
appropriations for aid to cities in fis cal 2004 by $2.3 billion (or about 9 percent) 
II-31
II-32
II-33
in the aggregate.  These are the first d eclines in at least a decade and included
sizable reductions in aid in California,  Massachusetts, Flor ida, and Minnesota. 
Historically, state aid ha s accounted for roughly 20 pe rcent of cities' general
revenue, with the remainder coming mainly from taxes and fees.
Prices and Labor Costs
Consumer prices have posted small incr eases, on net, since the spring after
having been pushed up earlier in the year by the surge in energy prices.  Theoverall CPI in July was 2.1 percent above its year-ear lier level, an acceleration
of 0.6 percentage point relative to the tw elve-month change a year earlier.  Core
consumer prices rose somewhat faster over the three months ending in July, on
average, than they had earlier in the year.  Even so, the twelve-month change inmost of these measures is considerably smaller than it was a year earlier.
Consumer energy prices rose 0.4 per cent in July after June’s 0.8 percent
increase.  The July rise was led by increases in prices for gasoline and heatingoil that were only partly offset by declin es in natural gas and electricity prices. 
Based on available survey data, we anticipate an even larger jump in gasolineprices in August, as supply disrup tions—including a temporary pipeline
shutdown in Arizona and maintenance problems at several refineries—have
combined with strong demand and lean  inventories to push up wholesale and
retail margins.  This pre ssure on retail prices shoul d be short-lived, however: 
Wholesale gasoline prices have already moved most of the way back to levels
more consistent with crude oil costs, and this should show through to retail
prices in the next few weeks.  Elsewh ere, cooler-than-usua l weather earlier this
summer allowed rapid replenishment of natural gas inventor ies; although the
unusually hot weather in July and August  reduced the rate of accumulation, the
remaining inventory gap is likely to be nearly closed by the start of winter.
The CPI for food rose 0.1 percent in July as price increases for meats, eggs, and
fresh fruit were largely offset by declin es for a number of other items.  A ban on
imports of beef from Canada (the re sult of concerns over mad cow disease)
boosted beef prices and contributed sign ificantly to the overall increase in food
prices; however, this ban was partially lifted in August, and some imports likelyresumed by the end of that month.  In all, food prices rose 2.1 percent over the
twelve months ending in July, 0.7 percen tage point faster than the rate a year
earlier.
Excluding food and energy, the CPI rose 0.2 percent in July after a 0.3 percent
rise in May and no change in June.  These readings are somewhat higher, on
average, than the exceptionally low figures recorded earlier in the year, whencore inflation was depressed by a number of transitory factors.  As of July, the
twelve-month change in the core CPI stood at 1.5 percent, down 0.7 percentage
point relative to a year earlier.
II-34
II-35
12. The BLS removes an estimate of landlord-provided utilities costs from the rent quotes
that it uses to construct owners’ equivalent rent.  Hence, an acceleration in utilities prices will
tend to lower OER relative to tenants’ rent, all else equal.
13. Market-based core PCE price inflation declined 0.4 percentage point between July 2002
and July 2003, to 0.8 percent; this drop is larger than the decline seen in overall core PCE price
inflation, but smaller than the decline in core CPI inflation.  Core commodities prices, which began to slide in 2001, decelerated
0.5 percentage point over the year ending in  July.  Prices of core services, led by
a significant stepdown in the rate of increase of shelter costs, particularly
owners’ equivalent rent (O ER), decelerated 0.9 percen tage point.  The reduction
in OER inflation reflects, in part, a sh arp acceleration in utilities prices; as these
prices moderate, we expect so me of this effect to unwind.12  In addition, the
initial wave of outsized tuition increases by state university systems wasapparent in July’s 1.0 percent rise in college tuition, and these increases should
push core services prices high er in August and September.
Core PCE prices rose 0.2 percent in July  following June’s 0.1 percent increase. 
On a twelve-month change basis, core PCE inflation in July was
1.4 percent—essentially unc hanged from the 1.5 percent increase posted over
the preceding year.  The stability of core  PCE inflation relative to the sharp
deceleration in the core CPI is largely the result of two factors.  First, prices forthe components of core PCE for which market-based prices do not exist—the
so-called “nonmarket” por tion of the index—accelerat ed 3/4 percentage point
over this period.
13  Second, the twelve months ending in July saw a sharp
deceleration in shelter rents, which receive a greater weight in the CPI.  Thecore component of the chained CPI—wh ich, like the PCE price index, employs
a superlative aggregation fo rmula that attempts to account for shifts in consumer
expenditure patterns following relative price changes—rose 1.0 percent over the
twelve months ending in July, comp ared with a year-earlier twelve-month
change of 1.6 percent.
The PPI for capital equipment moved up 0.4 pe rcent in July.  After having fallen
0.9 percent over the preceding year, prices  of capital equipment rose 0.7 percent
in the twelve months ending in July; this acceleration was relatively widespreadacross categories of capital goods.  At ear lier stages of processing, the twelve-
month change in the PPI for core intermediate goods stood at 1.8 percent inJuly, compared with a year-earlier dec line of 0.4 percent; price increases for
energy-intensive intermediate goods ha ve been especially large over the past
year.  More recently, however, core intermediate prices have begun to edgelower.  Spot commodity price indexe s have moved higher on net since the
August Greenbook:  Continued price in creases for plywood have helped push
the Journal of Commerce index of industrial prices up 5-3/4 percent since early
August, while the Commodity Research Bureau’s measure of spot industrial 
II-36
II-37
II-38
II-39
prices—which excludes forest produc ts—has risen 2-1/2 percent over this
period.
Like consumer price inflation, inflati on as measured by most broad price
indexes has been boosted over the past y ear by accelerating energy prices, while
broader measures of core price inflati on have generally moved a bit lower.  In
particular, GDP price inflation throug h the second quarter was 0.4 percentage
point higher than a year earlier, while the corresponding core measure
decelerated 0.3 percentage point.
As measured by the Michigan survey, median year-ahead expected inflation
rebounded in August to 2.5 percent, well above the 1.7 percent reading for July
and close to the average in the firs t quarter and in 2002.  Median expected
inflation over the next five to ten year s remained at 2.7 percent and has changed
little on net since the beginning of last year.
We have received relativel y little information on labor costs since the August
Greenbook.  As measured by the Productiv ity and Costs (P&C) data, the four-
quarter change in nonfarm hourly comp ensation stood at 2.9 percent in the
second quarter, about unchanged  relative to a year earlier.  In August, average
hourly earnings of production or nonsupe rvisory workers on private nonfarm
payrolls rose 0.1 percent following July’s  0.3 percent increase.  With the August
figure, the twelve-month change in  average hourly earnings stands at
2.9 percent, little changed from a year earlier.
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1
Selected Financial Market Quotations
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted)
  Change to Sept. 9 from
2001 2003 selected dates (percentage points)
Instrument 2001 2003 2003
  Sept. 10 May 5 Aug. 11 Sept. 9 Sept. 10 May 5 Aug. 11
Short-term
FOMC intended federal funds rate 3.50 1.25 1.00 1.00 -2.50 -.25 .00
Treasury bills 1
     3-month 3.19 1.11 0.94 0.94 -2.25 -.17 .00
     6-month 3.13 1.14 1.04 1.01 -2.12 -.13 -.03
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates)
     1-month 3.42 1.21 1.04 1.02 -2.40 -.19 -.02
     3-month 3.24 1.20 1.04 1.03 -2.21 -.17 -.01
Large negotiable CDs 1
     1-month 3.46 1.26 1.07 1.07 -2.39 -.19 .00
     3-month 3.26 1.24 1.07 1.08 -2.18 -.16 .01     6-month 3.24 1.22 1.12 1.13 -2.11 -.09 .01
Eurodollar deposits 2
     1-month 3.41 1.25 1.05 1.06 -2.35 -.19 .01
     3-month 3.26 1.21 1.07 1.08 -2.18 -.13 .01
Bank prime rate 6.50 4.25 4.00 4.00 -2.50 -.25 .00
Intermediate- and long-term
U.S. Treasury3
      2-year 3.59 1.56 1.83 1.71 -1.88 .15 -.12     10-year 5.14 4.09 4.56 4.55 -.59 .46 -.01
     30-year 5.55 4.97 5.46 5.40 -.15 .43 -.06
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 3.28 2.18 2.31 2.22 -1.06 .04 -.09
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 45.25 5.09 5.42 5.41 .16 .32 -.01
Private instruments
     10-year swap 5.62 4.29 4.80 4.87 -.75 .58 .07
     10-year FNMA55.68 4.39 4.96 4.95 -.73 .56 -.01
     10-year AA 66.30 4.83 5.24 5.27 -1.03 .44 .03
     10-year BBB 67.11 5.84 6.17 6.16 -.95 .32 -.01
     High-yield 712.72 9.54 9.69 9.06 -3.66 -.48 -.63
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 8
     30-year fixed 6.89 5.70 6.34 6.44 -.45 .74 .10
     1-year adjustable 5.64 3.74 3.80 3.98 -1.66 .24 .18
  Change to Sept. 9 
Record high 2003 from selected dates (percent)
Stock exchange index Record 2003 2003
   Level Date May 5 Aug. 11 Sept. 9 high May 5 Aug. 11
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 8,532 9,217 9,507 -18.90 11.44 3.14
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 927 981 1,023 -33.01 10.43 4.34Nasdaq (OTC) 5,049 3-10-00 1,504 1,662 1,873 -62.89 24.56 12.75Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 410 459 514 -15.27 25.32 11.82Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 8,817 9,431 9,933 -32.67 12.65 5.32
       1.  Secondary market.
       2.  Bid rates for eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time.       3.  Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities.       4.  Most recent Thursday quote.       5.  Constant maturity yields estimated from Fannie Mae domestic non-callable coupon securities.       6.  Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data.       7.  Merrill Lynch Master II high-yield bond.       8.  For week ending Friday previous to date shown.       _______________________________________________________________________
       NOTES:         September 10, 2001 is the day before the terrorist attacks.
         May 5, 2003 is the day before the May FOMC meeting.         August 11, 2003 is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting.       _______________________________________________________________________
1357 1 0012345
September 9, 2003
August 11, 2003Treasury Yield Curve
Maturity in yearsPercent
     Note.  Smoothed yield curve estimated using off-the-run Treasury
coupon securities.  Yields shown are those on notional par Treasury
securities with semiannual payments.Dec. May Oct. Mar. Aug. Jan. June Nov.
2000 2001 2002 200302468Short-Term Interest Rates
DailyPercent
Intended fed. funds2-year TreasuryAug. 12
FOMC
Sep .
 9
3456789Long-Term Interest Rates
DailyPercent
    *Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency.10-year BBB
30-year municipal*
10-year TreasuryAug. 12
FOMC
Sep .
 9
Jan. May Sept. Jan. May Sept. Jan. May Sept.
2001 2002 20031.01.52.02.53.03.5Aug.Sep.
 9
Sep.
 9Michigan survey**
5-year,
5-yr.  ahead*
5-year*PercentInflation Expectations
    *Estimates based upon smoothed nominal and inflation-indexed yield curves.
    **Monthly median 5- to 10-year inflation expectations.Aug. 12 
FOMC 
June Oct. Feb. June Oct. Feb. June
2001 2002 2003
Sept. Feb. July Dec. May Oct.
2003 2004 20051.01.52.02.53.03.54.0September 9, 2003
August 11, 2003Expected Federal Funds Rates Estimated from
Financial FuturesPercent
    Note.  Estimates from federal funds and eurodollar futures rates with an allowance for term premia and other adjustments.Implied Distribution of Federal Funds RateAbout Six Months Ahead*
09/09/2003 
08/11/2003 
0.250.500.751.001.251.501.752.002.252.502.753.003.253.50051015202530354045Percent
    *Based on the distribution of the three-month eurodollar rate five
months ahead (adjusted for a risk premium), as implied by options
on eurodollar futures contracts.Selected Interest Rates
Domestic Financial Developments
Overview
During the first three weeks of the inte rmeeting period, market  participants were
heartened by a string of better-than-exp ected spending indicators, and they bid
up Treasury yields and stock prices.  More recently, though, disappointing labor
market data and statements by Federal Reserve officials prompted a decline in
yields, although equity prices continued to move higher.  On balance, shorter-
term Treasury yields have edged lower since the August FOMC meeting, while
longer-term yields are about unchanged.  Broad stock market indexes have risen
about 4  to 5 percent.  Share prices for technology companies and small firms
have outperformed the broader indexes,  and risk spreads on high-yield bonds
have narrowed considerably.  The exp ected path of the federal funds rate
estimated from futures quotes suggests that market participants expect monetary
policy to remain on hold well into next year, but they still anticipate a substantialincrease in the federal funds rate  over the second half of 2004 and 2005.
The rise in longer-term interest rate s this summer has slowed bond issuance by
businesses and mortgage refinancing by  households, but it does not appear to
have hampered the ability of either sector to finance desired spending.  State andlocal governments have pared their re fundings of higher-cost bonds but have
continued to issue a substantial amount of debt overall, a nd federal borrowing
has remained brisk.
Policy Expectations and Interest Rates
The FOMC’s decision to leave the fede ral funds rate target and its risks
assessment unchanged at its August mee ting was widely anticipated.  However,
the accompanying statement indicating that “policy accommodation can bemaintained for a considerable period” pr ompted a decline in short-term Treasury
yields and in eurodollar futures ra tes following the announcement.  Over
subsequent weeks, interest  rates moved higher as investors responded to the
generally positive spending data.  But yields fell back toward the end of theperiod after labor market data proved disappointing a nd statements of Federal
Reserve officials that suggested in flation pressures remained subdued.
Market participants have pushed back the anticipated onset of policy tightening, 
leaving the expected level of the funds  rate over the sec ond half of 2004 about
25 basis points below the level expected at the time of the August FOMCmeeting.  Nonetheless, investors ha ve not revised the cumulative amount of
tightening that they anticipate by the end of 2005, when the funds rate isexpected to reach about 3-1/2 percent.  Reflecting these adjustments to the path
III-2
 
III-3
1. Anecdotal reports suggest that the influence of mortgage hedging activities, which may
have magnified movements in longer-term Treasury yields in July, waned over the intermeetingperiod.  In addition, trading conditions in th e Treasury market, which had been choppy at times
in July, reportedly have largely returned to normal. for short-term rates, two-year Treasury yields declined over the intermeeting
period, while ten-year nominal yields were about unchanged.1 
Inflation compensation, as measured by the spread of nominal yields to those of 
inflation-indexed securities, edged high er during the intermeeting period.  The
current levels of inflation compensati on over the next five years and over the
period from five to ten years ahead remain ed at or near the high end of their
ranges of the past several years.  Inflation expectations from the Michigan
Survey were unchanged last month.
Stock Prices and Corporate Interest Rates
Broad equity price indexes rose about 4 to 5 percent over the intermeeting period
on the more favorable outlooks for the economy and corporate profits.  Small-
cap and tech stocks outperformed the br oad measures, as the Nasdaq and Russell
2000 gained about 12 percent, reaching their highest levels in nearly a year and a
half.  The implied volatility of equity prices varied in a low range over theintermeeting period, with that on the Nasd aq touching its lowest level since
1998.  For the broad market, the twel ve-month forward S&P 500 earnings-to-
price ratio edged down, and its gap to th e real 10-year Treasury yield—a rough
measure of the equity premium—narrowed a bit.  This measure now stands at
about its average level over the decade prio r to the run-up in stock prices in the
late 1990s.
Yield spreads for investment-grade co rporate bonds over Treasuries were about
unchanged during the intermeeting period.  In contrast, spreads for speculative-
grade issuers, which may benefit more in the economic recovery, fellconsiderably, leaving them at th eir lowest levels since early 2000. 
Business Finance
Bond issuance has shifted down of late as the opportunistic issuance in which
many firms tapped markets to  take advantage of low in terest rates in May and
June has ended.  Issuance by investment -grade nonfinancial firms was sluggish
in August, and although issuance of sp eculative bonds remains fairly robust, it
dropped back last month from its extrao rdinary pace in the previous three
months.  The amount of short- and inte rmediate-term credit outstanding changed
little on net in August; co mmercial paper edged up for the second month in a
row, while C&I loans fell.  The slower pace of net borrowing in the past twomonths likely does not indicat e a softening in business spending plans, as the
III-4
III-5
volume of funds raised in the second qua rter appeared to have comfortably
exceeded current spending needs.
Gross equity issuance was weak in August, but the recent significant rise in IPO
filings suggests an increase in new offerings in the months ahead.  In addition,although completions of cash-financed merg ers have remained sluggish in recent
months, announcements of new merger  deals have steadily picked up. 
Announcements of new share repurchase programs slowed considerably in
recent months, in part because of the e limination of preferentia l tax treatment for
share buybacks.  Even with the slower pace of repurchases, net equity issuance
by nonfinancial firms is expected to remain negative this quarter.
Corporate Earnings and Credit Quality
Based on a full set of earnings reports, S&P 500 earnings increased 9 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, ha ndily beating analysts’ expectations. 
NIPA economic profits before tax, a br oader measure of profits, posted an even
stronger increase.  Analysts continue to  expect a robust increase in S&P earnings
growth in the second half of the year.  In August, after several months of little
net revision, they revised up their for ecasts of S&P earnings for both 2003 and
2004—a bullish outlook given the usual pattern of downward adjustments.
Measures of corporate credit quality have  generally improved recently.  The C&I
loan delinquency rate declined further in the second quarter.  The trailing six-
month bond default rate was low in August  and substantially below its peak at
the end of last year.  The recovery rate on defaulted bonds , however, continues
to hover at the low levels of the past few years.  The pace of bond downgrades in
July and August was considerably less than in recent quarters, though upgrades
remain sparse.  In addition, the for ecast of aggregate year-ahead default
probability—based on the KMV model—fell in July, and rising equity pricesand lower market volatility since then have likely pushed it down further.  
Commercial Real Estate
Interest rates on high-grade  CMBS have risen about in line with Treasury yields
since the end of the second quarter, while those for lower-rated CMBS have
increased by somewhat more.  The limited data in hand indicate that higherinterest rates likely have slowed the growth of commercial mortgage debt in thethird quarter to about 7 percent at an  annual rate.  Spr eads of AAA-rated CMBS
yields over swap yields widened 12 ba sis points over the intermeeting period,
while those on BBB-rated tranches widene d 26 basis points.  However, spreads
remain relatively low, as is consiste nt with the still-s ubdued delinquency rates
on commercial mortgages.
III-6
III-7
III-8
III-9
Household Finance
Interest rates on thirty-year fixed-rate  mortgages remain more than 100 basis
points above their mid-June lows.  The rush of homeowners to completemortgage refinancing in the face of rising rates kept originations high in August. However, the volume of refinancing app lications has since fallen sharply, and
purchase applications have weakened as well.  These signs of softening point to
a notable slowing of the growth of hom e mortgage debt this quarter from its
rapid second-quarter pace of 14 percent at an annual rate.
Available data indicate th at consumer credit has ex panded moderately in the
third quarter, similar to the pace earlier this  year.  The growth of consumer credit
likely has been restrained as refinancin g originations remained brisk through
August and households continued to substitu te mortgage debt for relatively high-
cost consumer loans.  In addition, some households may have paid down a
portion of their consumer debt with the tax rebates they received this quarter.
Household credit quality app ears to have improved s lightly on net in recent
months.  Delinquency rates on cons umer loans and home mortgages at
commercial banks fell a bit in the second quarter, and those on auto loans at the
auto finance companies declined in July.  While delinque ncy rates on credit
cards in securitized pools and household bankruptcy filings have edged off in
recent months, both remain high.
Given the large rise in equity prices so  far this quarter, household net worth is on
track to register a notable increas e for the second consecutive quarter. 
Nonetheless, the boost to disposable in come from this quarter’s tax cuts will
probably leave the ratio of net worth to disposable personal income about
unchanged in the third quarter at a leve l just above its long-run average.  In
August, households continued to incr ease their holdings of domestic equity
mutual funds, especially capital apprecia tion funds, which tend to hold shares of
higher-risk companies.  Meanwhile, they  moved assets out of bond funds, which
were experiencing capital losses as interest rates rose.
State and Local Government Finance
Gross municipal bond issuance—while down from the extraordinary pace in the
second quarter—remained robust in Augu st, boosted by an increase in short-
term funding.  The rise in longer-ter m rates in the summer appears to have
damped new capital issuance, and issuan ce of advance refunding bonds slowed,
owing in part to a dwindling pool of refundable bonds.  Since the August FOMCmeeting, municipal yields and muni-t o-Treasury yield ratios are unchanged on
net.
III-10
III-11
III-12

III-13
The news about the credit quality of muni cipal issues has been mixed over the
past several months.  The number of  municipal bond rating downgrades about
matched the number of upgrade s.  However, some of the downgrades were large
general-obligation issues from California and Illinois, so that the dollar volume
of downgrades exceeded the dollar volume of upgrades by a wide margin. Spreads on general obligation bonds for thes e states had been rising as their
fiscal conditions worsened, but they have not escalated recently, and spreads onrevenue bonds were unchanged over the intermeeting period.
Treasury and Agency Finance
The Treasury is estimated to have continued its sizable net borrowing in August
to finance the widening federal budget deficit.  To address its current and
prospective funding needs, the Treasury is  returning to monthly issuance of five-
year notes and, beginning this month, w ill regularly reopen ten-year notes issued
at its mid-quarter refunding auctions.   
Fannie Mae reported that the duration gap between its assets and liabilities over
the month of July widened to an av erage of six months.  Agency market
participants have focused on Fannie M ae’s duration gap as an indication of
demand for hedging products, and the wide r gap may have contributed to yield
movements in the Treasury market around mid-summer and a widening in
spreads on interest rate swaps.  Con tinued management turmoil at Freddie
Mac—most notably the recent removal of its CEO, which was demanded by theOffice of Federal Housing Enterprise Ov ersight—has kept spreads on these GSE
credit default swaps at or near their highest levels in more than a year.  Marketparticipants are awaiting testimony on the regulatory status of Fannie andFreddie by Treasury Secretary Snow, but  reportedly most anticipate that only
minor changes will be legislated.
Money and Bank Credit
M2 growth was boosted last month by  another sizable increase in liquid
deposits, owing to strong prepayments of mortgage-backed securities, whichtemporarily increased escrow accounts, and the August 14 power outage, which
disrupted the disbursement of funds and left liquid de posits substantially
elevated for a few days.  Tax rebates di stributed in late July and early August
likely also contributed to M2 growth last month. 
In July and August, bank lending remain ed fairly strong on net, bolstered by
strong growth of real estate loans.  In  contrast, consumer loans were soft and
C&I loans continued to contract.  The run-off in business loans more likely
reflects weak demand than tight supply.   Indeed, preliminary results from the
August Survey of Terms of Business Le nding indicate that spreads on C&I loans
at domestic banks have narrowed a b it this year but remain elevated.
III-14
III-15
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S. International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The U.S. international trade deficit in June was $39.5 billion, $2.0 billion
smaller than in May (revised), as exports of goods and services increased andimports were unchanged.  For the second quarter, the trade deficit was$491 billion at an annual rate, $4 billion larger than in the first quarter.  
The value of exports rose 2.4 percent in June, with increases in both goods and
services.  The moderate increase in exported goods was primarily in aircraft andconsumer goods.  Exports of services moved up strongly in June for the secondconsecutive month, largely from increasing receipts from international travel asworries related to terrorism, SARS, and the Iraq war appeared to wane.  In thesecond quarter, the value of exported goods and services rose 1.1 percent at anannual rate.  Exports of services were at about the same level in the secondquarter as in the first quarter (the monthly trough occurred in April).  Exports ofgoods rose slightly as increases in the value of semiconductors, consumer goods,and agricultural products were largely offset by declines in exported aircraft,computers, and industrial supplies.
Imports of goods and services were at the same level in June as in May. 
Increases in the value of imported oil (mostly from higher prices), automotiveproducts, and services (primarily from rising international travel) were offset bya sharp decline in the value of imported consumer goods and, to a lesser extent,industrial supplies.  In the second quarter, imports of goods and services rose1.9 percent at an annual rate.  Despite rising monthly figures, imports of serviceswere lower in the second quarter than in the first quarter.  Increases in imports of
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
goods were concentrated in capital equipment and automotive products. 
Declines were recorded in the quarterly value of imported oil (a drop in priceoutweighed an increase in quantity) and other industrial supplies.  The value ofimported consumer goods was about the same in the second quarter as in the firstquarter, a notable change from the strong quarterly increases recorded for thepast year.  
Prices of Internationally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In July, the prices of U.S. imports of non-oil goods and of core
goods increased 0.1 and 0.2 percent, respectively.  Within core goods, the largestprice changes were in industrial supplies and foods, feeds and beverages.  Afterfalling for the past three months, prices of foods, feeds and beverages rose0.9 percent, driven by the prices for meat and fish.  Higher prices for buildingmaterials and finished metals contributed to the 0.6 percent increase in the priceof industrial supplies.  In all other trade categories within core goods, prices werelittle changed.  The prices of U.S. imports of computers continued to decline inJuly, but semiconductor prices rose. 
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose 3.7 percent in July, following a revised
4.2 percent increase in June.  The spot price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI)crude oil, however, was practically unchanged in July relative to June, averaging$30.76 per barrel.  In August, the spot price edged up, averaging $31.59 perbarrel, but has moved down somewhat in September, closing at $29.18 per barrelon September 8.  The recent fall in the spot price may partly reflect the end of thesummer driving season and the lack of significant supply disruptions fromtropical storms.  However, prices remain elevated owing to the slow return ofIraqi exports and low global oil inventories.
Exports.   In July, the prices of U.S. exports of total goods and of core goods
both fell 0.1 percent.  Within core goods, industrial supplies was the onlycategory that saw a price change, declining 0.3 percent.  The largest decline wasin the price of chemicals.  The fall in prices of industrial supplies was the thirddecline seen over the past four months.  The prices of U.S. exports of computersand semiconductors were unchanged in July. 
U.S. International Financial Transactions
Foreign official inflows (line 1 of the Summary of U.S. International
Transactions table) amounted to nearly $10 billion in July, a slowdown from therecord pace recorded in the second quarter, but comparable to the averagemonthly inflows recorded over the last year-and-a-half.  Inflows in July wereparticularly strong for Norway and China, and, to a lesser extent, Japan.  For thefirst seven months of the year, foreign official inflows have amounted to$104 billion, exceeding the $94 billion inflow recorded for all of 2002.  InAugust, data on official holdings at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
IV-6
indicate a further increase of about $17 billion, primarily reflecting increases for
China, Korea, and Japan. 
Private inflows into U.S. securities (line 4) remained very strong at $50 billion in
July, although down a bit from the record average monthly pace recorded in thesecond quarter.  To date this year, private purchases of U.S. securities haveamounted to $235 billion, putting these inflows on pace with the record inflowsrecorded for 2001 and 2002.  Private foreign purchases of Treasury securitiesrecorded their strongest month in seven years, and purchases of corporate bondscontinued at the very strong pace of recent months.  In contrast, purchases ofagency debt were subdued in July following modest net sales in June, and privateforeigners made small net sales of U.S. corporate equities compared with netpurchases in recent months.  
U.S. investors acquired $3 billion in foreign securities in July (line 5), as
continued purchases of foreign equities were only partially offset by smallersales of foreign bonds.  While most transactions in foreign securities are recordedagainst major financial centers, over $9 billion of the roughly $12 billion in netpurchases of foreign equities in June and July has been recorded against Japan. 
Net capital flows through the banking sector (line 3) amounted to an inflow of
$49 billion in July, primarily reflecting flows through affiliated foreign offices.These inter-bank funding flows tend to be volatile on a monthly basis; the inflowin July reversed a sizable net outflow in June. 
IV-7
IV-8
Foreign Financial Markets
On balance, the broad nominal value of the dollar is little changed on a trade-
weighted basis since the August FOMC meeting.  Through the first three weeksof the intermeeting period, the dollar appreciated against most major foreigncurrencies, with the notable exception of the yen, amid growing optimism thatU.S. economic growth would outpace that in most foreign industrial economies. These gains were reversed later in the period, however, in part following themuch weaker-than-expected August U.S. labor market report.  The dollar is alsolittle changed, on balance, against the currencies of our other important tradingpartners.  
On net, the dollar appreciated 1¼ and 2 percent against the euro and Swiss franc,
respectively, over the period.  Euro-area economic data released during theperiod, while showing some signs of improvement, were viewed by marketparticipants as somewhat less positive for growth than data released in the UnitedStates.  News that French, German, and Italian GDP contracted in the secondquarter contributed to this view, as it contrasted with the upward revision to U.S.second-quarter growth.  Indeed, news of  rising German consumer and business
confidence, as well as improvements in the euro-zone manufacturing andservices purchasing managers’ indexes, elicited little net movement in foreignexchange rates, as the significance of these forward-looking indicators wasweighed against more tangible evidence of current strength in the U.S. economy. 
IV-9
Meeting market expectations, the European Central Bank and Bank of England
left their respective interest rate targets unchanged in decisions on September 4. While short-term interest rates in the United States and the euro area were littlechanged on balance—anchored by expectations that policymakers will leaverates unchanged in the near term—short-term rates in the United Kingdomincreased about 20 basis points on net.  A pickup in manufacturing and mortgagelending in the United Kingdom contributed to the upward shift in the expectedpath of short-term sterling rates.  The dollar appreciated somewhat less againststerling, gaining about 1 percent on balance.    
The dollar depreciated 1½ percent against the yen on net amid reportedly rising
investor enthusiasm about Japanese growth prospects.  Positive investorsentiment increased markedly early in the period, following news of stronger-than-expected growth in Q2 Japanese GDP, and was subsequently furthersupported by stronger-than-expected data on Japanese business activity andindustrial production.  The yen appreciated further in late August following aMinistry of Finance report which showed that the Japanese monetary authoritieshad not intervened in currency markets during the previous four weeks. Repeated large-scale intervention sales of yen for dollars by the Japanesemonetary authorities late in the period were aimed at curbing the yen’sappreciation.      
IV-10
Recent declines in inflation pressures and economic growth in Canada prompted
markets to correctly anticipate a 25-basis-point rate cut by the Bank of Canada atits meeting on September 3.  In the days following the policy announcement, theCanadian dollar appreciated as market participants noted that the accompanyingstatement was optimistic about future economic growth.  On net, the dollar endedthe period 1½ percent weaker against the Canadian dollar.    Optimism about global economic recovery reportedly prompted further equityprice gains during the period.  Net gains were the largest in Japan, where theTopix index rose over 12 percent.  Gains in U.K. equity prices were somewhatless than those in U.S. markets, while euro-area share prices rose about4 percent.  Analysts noted that the recent retreat of the euro from multi-yearhighs attained earlier in the summer has helped support profit expectations forEuropean export firms.
Benchmark government bond yields generally also rose in most foreign industrial
economies, with Japan again registering the largest increases.  On balance theyield on the benchmark Japanese government bond rose about 70 basis points,while European yields rose 20 to 30 basis points.  European bond markets weresubstantially less volatile than U.S. markets over the intermeeting period, as theyhave been in recent months
The price of gold rose 6 percent on balance, briefly touching a seven-year high
late in the intermeeting period.  Prices of silver, platinum, and other preciousmetals also rose to multi-year highs.  Market participants attributed theseincreases, in some part, to reports of heightened demand for gold from jewelryprocessors in East and South Asia. 
The Mexican peso depreciated about 2½ percent against the dollar on balance
over the intermeeting period.  Receding inflation pressures have reportedlyprompted expectations that the central bank of Mexico may loosen its monetarypolicy stance in the near term.  
The Brazilian real appreciated 2¼ percent against the dollar over the period,
while Brazilian share prices gained about 15 percent and Brazil’s EMBI+ spreadover comparable Treasury yields fell 130 basis points.  Investors reportedlyremain optimistic about Brazil’s long-term prospects despite evidence ofunexpected short-term weakness in the Brazilian economy.  Contributing tothe optimistic tone in markets, the central bank of Brazil lowered its policy rate250 basis points on August 20, a bit more than markets had expected.  
IV-11
Investors in emerging Asian equity markets shared in the global market
optimism, supported by evidence of increasing orders for electronics exports aswell as the pickup in the U.S. economy.  Share price gains in economies with atechnology focus were pronounced, with markets in Hong Kong, Korea, andTaiwan up almost 10 percent.  
  
  .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for theaccounts of the System or the Treasury.
IV-12
Developments in Foreign Industrial Countries
Second-quarter national accounts show a mixed performance of real GDP growth
for the major foreign industrial countries.  GDP grew strongly in Japan, andgrowth picked up in the U.K.  Canadian GDP contracted as the rate of inventoryaccumulation fell sharply, while euro-area GDP edged down, partly owing todisruptive strikes in Germany and France.  With the exception of Japan, netexports made a negative contribution in all major foreign industrial countries. Limited data from the third quarter and some survey data indicate a firming ofeconomic activity.
Twelve-month consumer-price inflation rates increased marginally in the latest
data, on average, in response to higher energy prices and slight currencydepreciations.   Euro-area inflation moved back above 2 percent in August. Canadian inflation dropped sharply in July, while in the United Kingdom retailprice inflation picked up slightly to nearly 3 percent.  In Japan, deflation eased.
In Japan , real GDP rose a stronger-than-expected 3.9 percent (s.a.a.r.) during the
second quarter, according to revised data .  Business fixed investment provided
the most support, expanding an eye-popping 20 percent.  Private consumptionadvanced about 1½ percent.  Net exports added almost 1 percentage point togrowth, reflecting a rise in exports of roughly 3 percent and a fall in imports ofabout 6 percent.  Service imports declined sharply as a result of a SARS-induceddrop in foreign travel.  Inventory decumulation created a drag on growth,subtracting slightly over ½ percentage point.  Residential investment declinedabout 1¼ percent, and public investment also contracted. 
Indicators for the third quarter suggest that economic activity continues to
expand.  Industrial production rose 0.5 percent in July from the previous month. Core machinery orders, a leading indicator  of business fixed investment, were up
about 0.5 percent in July from the second-quarter average.  Real exports roseroughly 2 percent in July from the second-quarter average, boosted by strongdemand from China, while imports jumped 6 percent.  However, indicators pointto a weak start to the third quarter for private consumption, with householdexpenditures dropping 3 percent in July from the second-quarter average. Household spending in July was reportedly depressed by an increase in the socialsecurity tax rate applied to summer bonuses and by unseasonably cool weather. New car registrations slipped in August.
IV-13
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
GDP -2.4 2.5 3.3 2.3 2.4 3.9
Total domestic demand -1.8 1.5 4.3 .9 2.5 3.0
Consumption 1.4 1.4 2.7 .1 1.4 1.6Private investment -10.5 2.7 6.3 11.5 7.9 16.3Public investment -1.1 -5.9 -10.7 -9.6 -12.2 -7.2Government consumption 2.3 1.4 3.1 .0 1.5 -.2Inventories
2-.6 .3 1.7 -.7 .6 -.6
Exports -11.0 17.7 .4 18.3 2.4 3.1Imports -7.1 8.8 10.9 5.8 2.6 -6.2Net exports
2-.6 1.1 -.9 1.5 .0 .9
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Data suggest continued improvement in labor market conditions and an easing in
deflation.  In July, the unemployment rate held steady at 5.3 percent, down froma peak rate of 5.5 percent recorded early this year, and thejob-offers-to-applicants ratio, a leading indicator of employment, rose slightly. 
Core consumer goods prices in the Tokyo area (which exclude fresh food butinclude energy) rose slightly in August from the previous month, but were down0.3 percent from a year earlier.  Wholesale prices for domestic goods fell 0.6percent in August from a year earlier.  The GDP deflator fell 2.5 percent in thesecond quarter from a year earlier.
IV-14
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul. Aug.
Industrial production1.4 .4 -.6 2.6 -1.2 .5 n.a.
All-industries index -.3 .7 .1 .2 .9 n.a. n.a.Housing starts 1.7 .7 4.3    .6 8.7 -8.6 n.a.Machinery orders
2-.1 5.8 3.4 6.5 2.4 -3.1 n.a.
Machinery shipments32.3 .2 1.5 3.6 -.9 -1.3 n.a.
New car registrations 1.0 1.4 -6.3 11.4 -6.1 .7 -.9Unemployment rate
45.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.3 5.3 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.57 .6 .61 .61 .61 .62 n.a.
Business sentiment6-28 -26 -26 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-.7 -.7 -.4 -.4 -.4 -.4 -.3
Wholesale prices7-1.4 -.9 -1 -1.1 -1.1 -.7 -.6
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, excluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
Euro-area real GDP fell 0.3 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter, the ninth
straight quarter in which euro-area GDP growth has been below the 2-2½ percentestimated growth rate of potential GDP.  Exports and investment both fell. Private consumption managed to grow slightly.  Government expenditurecontributed 0.6 percent to GDP growth. Growth in the second quarter washampered by strikes in Germany and France.  A large negative contribution fromnet exports combined with weak investment and consumption led GDP to fall inGermany, France, Italy, and the Netherlands.  
IV-15
Euro-Area Real GDP1
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20012200222002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
G D P . 8 1 . 1. 9. 2. 1 - . 3Total domestic demand .1 .8 .8 1.3 2.1 .4Consumption 1.4 .7 1.2 1.2 1.9 .3Investment -1.9 -1.8 .5 1.0 -4.7 -1.6Government consumption 2.6 2.1 2.1 0.8 1.1 2.9Inventories
3-.8 .3 -.5 .2 1.7 .0
Exports -2.1 3.7 6.0 -1.7 -4.6 -1.8Imports -3.9 3.0 6.1 0.9 .3 .1Net exports
3.6 .3 .1 -1.0 -1.9 -.7
Memo (GDP):
France .7 1.4 1.1 -.5 .7 -1.3Germany .5 .5 .6 -.2 -1 -.2I t a l y . 7. 9. 6 1 . 5 - . 5 - . 4
1. Includes Greece as of 2001 Q1.
2. Q4/Q4.3. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
While more direct indicators of economic activity are not available, survey
measures of economic sentiment in the euro area improved markedly in recentmonths.  The German IFO index of business sentiment rose for the fourth straightmonth in August, a strong indicator of the turning point for Germanmanufacturing.  The Belgian National Bank Survey (a leading indicator forproduction of intermediate goods) also increased in both July and August.  Euro-area PMI for manufacturing rose further to 49.1 in August, ever closer to the 50mark which is the benchmark for expansion. Country measures of consumerconfidence also showed stability or improvement in August.  
IV-16
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul. Aug.
Industrial production1-.1 .0 -.8 -.9 -.1 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume2-.5 .7 .1 -.7 .0 n.a. n.a.
Unemployment rate38.6 8.7 8.8 8.8 8.9 8.9 n.a.
Consumer confidence4-14.0 -19.3 -19.3 -20.0 -19.0 -18.0 n.a.
Industrial confidence4-10.0 -11.3 -12.7 -13.0 -13.0 -15.0 n.a.
Mfg. orders, Germany .4 .3 -1.9 -2.6 2.1 -.3 n.a.CPI
52.3 2.3 2.0 1.9 2.0 1.9 2.1
Producer prices51.3 2.4 1.5 1.3 1.4 1.3 n.a.
M356.9 8.0 8.4 8.5 8.4 8.5 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Excludes motor vehicles.3. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO de finition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.     n.a.  Not available.
Euro-area twelve-month consumer price inflation moved back above the ECB’s
2 percent ceiling in August, according to the flash estimate.  Excluding energyand unprocessed food, however, inflation continued to fall to1.8 percent in July. Labor market conditions remain weak, with the unemployment rate stuck at a 3½year high of 8.9 percent in July.
In the United Kingdom , second-quarter real GDP rose modestly, following a
weak first quarter.  Growth was supported by a bounce-back in consumption froma lackluster rate in the first quarter, and continued strength in governmentspending.  These bright spots were offset by continued declines in investment and
a sizable negative contribution from net exports, as exports plunged while importsrose.  Inventories made a positive contribution to growth.
IV-17
U.K. Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
GDP 1.9 2.3 3.7 2.0 .4 1.4
Total domestic demand 2.3 3.8 4.4 7.6 -1.2 5.4
Consumption 4.3 3.4 3.2 4.1 .9 5.3Investment -5.0 1.4 -.7 1.3 -4.3 -1.9Government consumption 4.6 1.6 1.2 3.6 10.4 4.5Inventories
2-.4 1.0 2.3 4.2 -3.0 1.6
Exports -4.6 -.7 -2.4 -14.7 8.9 -11.2Imports -2.5 3.7 .5 1.6 2.7 1.8Net exports
2-.6 -1.7 -1.1 -5.9 -1.7 -4.6
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Indicators for the third quarter suggest continued recovery.  The manufacturing
sector is showing signs of firming, as output growth picked up in the sector inJuly, even as industrial production growth slowed because of a fall in electricityproduction.  August’s manufacturing PMI trended up, continuing to indicateexpansion.  Business confidence ticked up again in August. After surging in June,retail sales fell back slightly in July.  Both of the leading surveys of retail salescooled a little in August and consumer confidence has remained flat since risingin April.  The services PMI rose again in August to its highest level since January2001.
IV-18
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul. Aug.
Industrial production -.9 -.3 .2 -.1 .6 .3 n.a.
Retail sales volume11.6 .0 1.5 -.4 2.0 -.4 n.a.
Unemployment rate2
      Claims-based 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 n.a.
      Labor force survey35.1 5.1 n.a.  5.0 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence43.0 -1.3 -6.3 -3.0 -6.0 -4.0 -3.0
Consumer confidence5-3.0 -10.0 -6.7 -6.0 -6.0 -6.0 n.a.
Retail prices62.6 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.8 2.9 n.a.
Producer input prices71.4 4.9 1.2 1.4 1.4 2.2 2.9
Average earnings73.7 3.4 3.1 3.3 3.2 n.a. n.a.
1. Excludes motor vehicles. 
2. Percent3. Three-month average centered on month shown.4. Percentage of firms expecting output to incr ease in the next four months less percentage 
expecting output to decrease.
5. Average of the percentage balance from c onsumers’ expectations of their financial 
situation, general economic situation, unemployment, and savings over the next 12                     months.
6. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.7. Percent change from year earlier....  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
House price inflation is slowing, but only moderately.  Prices rose around 17
percent in the twelve months ending in August, according to Nationwide,Britain’s largest building society. Net mortgage lending continued to climb inJuly while consumer credit slowed.  Mortgage equity withdrawals rose to 7.3percent of net income in the first quarter.
The labor market continues to be tight as both the official claims-based and the
labor force survey measures of the unemployment rate remain near record lows. Employment growth rose 0.8 percent in the twelve months ending in May.  Thetwelve-month rate of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage interest payments)ticked up in July and remained above the Bank of England’s 2½ percent target. The harmonized index of consumer prices (HICP) rose 1.3 percent in the twelvemonths ending in July.
IV-19
In Canada , real GDP decreased 0.3 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter, after
growing 2.6 percent in the first quarter.  The outbreak of SARS in April, thediscovery of mad cow disease in May, and the recent appreciation of theCanadian dollar all contributed to the fall in economic activity.  Final domesticdemand remained strong, advancing 2.9 percent, as consumption grew robustlydespite SARS-related weakness in the travel, tourism, and accommodationsectors.  Investment growth was supporte d by the continued strength of residential
construction.  GDP growth was depressed by a decrease in the rate of inventoryaccumulation and strong import growth. 
Canadian Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
GDP 1.4 3.5 2.7 1.6 2.6 -.3
Total domestic demand .8 5.7 1.5 4.5 7.8 .1
Consumption 2.3 3.8 1.3 4.4 4.4 2.7Investment 3.4 2.0 3.2 .1 6.6 2.7Government consumption 3.5 2.8 4.2 2.4 2.4 3.6Inventories
2-1.9 2.3 -.7 1.4 3.2 -2.6
Exports -5.4 .7 8.5 -8.7 -6.7 2.2Imports -8.4 6.5 5.8 -1.4 3.8 5.6Net exports
2.8 -2.0 1.3 -3.2 -4.2 -1.1
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Indicators for the third quarter have been mixed.  Employment declined slightly in
both July and August after increasing in the second quarter.  The recent blackoutin Ontario led to a record decline in hours worked in August, but is not thought to
be responsible for the month's fall in employment.    However, residential
construction remained strong, with housing starts in August reaching theirsecond-highest level since Canada’s recent housing boom began in early 2002. 
In July, the twelve-month rate of headline CPI inflation declined to 2.2 percent. 
The twelve-month rate of inflation has declined rapidly in recent months, largelyon account of lower energy prices and the fading of a number of special factors,including an increase in tobacco taxes and a rapid rise in auto insurance
IV-20
premiums.  Twelve-month core inflation, excluding food, energy prices, and
indirect taxes, also continued to move down in July.
On September 3, the Bank of Canada cut its key policy rate, the overnight rate, 25
basis points to 2.75 percent, citing the rapid decline in core inflation and a numberof recent adverse shocks to economic activity.  The cut, in conjunction withanother 25-basis-point reduction on July 15, brings the policy rate back to itsbeginning of year level.
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul. Aug.
GDP by industry .4 .6 .0 .2 .1 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production -.3 .1 -1.8 -.4 -.8 n.a. n.a.New mfg. orders -2.5 1.5 -5.1 -2.7 2.0 n.a. n.a.Retail sales .8 -1.8 -.2 .5 .3 n.a. n.a.Employment .8 .5 .1 -.1 .3 -.1 -.1Unemployment rate
17.5 7.4 7.7 7.8 7.7 7.8 8.0
Consumer prices23.8 4.5 2.8 2.9 2.6 2.2 n.a.
Core Consumer Prices2,33.0 3.2 2.4 2.5 2.0 1.7 n.a.
Consumer attitudes4122.1 114.5 115.1 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence4136 131.4 109.9 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes.4. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-21
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 May Jun. Jul.
Japan
Trade 84.9 73.3 77.2 77.5 73.8 75.9
Current account 102.2 117.3 131.3 159.6 113.4 149.4
Euro area
Trade1104.7 28.9 60.8 62.1 76.3 n.a.
Current account189.9 12.0 -20.6 5.5 44.8 n.a.
Germany
Trade 127.9 125.8 136.6 148.2 136.3 n.a.Current account
187.0 41.9 40.1 42.8 38.2 n.a.
France
Trade 1.1 .6 .3 .8 -.2 n.a.Current account 4.6 3.7 1.1 5.4 2.0 n.a.
Italy
Trade 5.2 1.3 n.a. -4.0 n.a. n.a.Current account
1-15.8 -30.2 -35.7 -29.2 -44.4 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -83.9 -69.1 -71.1 -78.2 -89.0 -63.7Current Account -11.0 15.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 34.7 38.8 33.1 34.2 31.6 n.a.Current Account 12.4 18.3 14.5 ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-22
IV-23
IV-24
Economic Situation in Other Countries
In developing Asia, the negative economic effects of SARS became more
apparent with the release of real GDP growth for the second quarter.  Indicatorsfor the third quarter suggest a strong rebound in most of the SARS-affectedeconomies.  However, economic conditions in Korea, a country not directlyaffected by SARS, have not improved substantially.  Economic performance inLatin America has been mixed.  While the Mexican and Argentine economiesappear to be recovering, economic activity has continued to be weak in Brazil. Inflation has remained benign in most of the developing world. 
In China , indications are that the economy is once again expanding at a very
strong pace.  Retail sales are growing rapidly and were above pre-SARS levels inJuly.  Industrial production continues to expand briskly.  Both exports andimports reached new highs in July and retraced only a part of the July increasesin August.  The trade balance has remained in surplus.  Twelve-month consumerprice inflation inched up a bit in July, and month-to-month inflation was positivefor the first time since March, as the price-depressing effects of SARS waned.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP17.5 8.0 16.3 -2.9 ... ... ...
Industrial production28.9 11.8 17.0 15.1 16.9 16.5 17.1
Consumer prices2-.3 -.4 .5 .7 .3 .5 n.a.
Trade balance323.1 30.3 -7.2 12.5 13.1 5.8 19.2
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by st aff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.
3. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
...  Not applicable.
Foreign exchange reserves grew $10 billion in July and now exceed 
$350 billion.  China’s central bank continues to attempt to sterilize these inflows. In addition, in August China’s central bank raised the legal reserve requirementfor banks from 6 to 7 percent in order to slow the growth of private credit, whichis now over 20 percent on a twelve-month basis.  The central bank fears thatsome sectors of the economy, especially property and automobiles, may beexperiencing a bubble.
IV-25
In Hong Kong , real GDP plummeted 14 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter,
much more than expected, as the negative economic effects of SARS were felt. Private consumption and services exports (which include tourism) bothregistered significant declines.  The persistence of weakness beyond the secondquarter was evident in July consumer price inflation figures, as price discountingby retailers and cuts in government-regulated utility rates led to a noticeableworsening of deflation.  The trade deficit improved in July, owing largely to abig increase in re-exports (presumably exports from China, although thebreakdown by country is not yet available).
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Real GDP1-1.3 5.2 -1.2 -14.0 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.9 7.3 7.5 8.6 8.3 8.6 8.7
Consumer prices3-3.7 -1.6 -.9 -2.5 -2.4 -3.1 -4.0
Trade balance4-11.4 -7.7 -6.8 -6.8 -6.1 -7.7 -2.6
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages  of the current and previous two months.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
...  Not applicable.
In Taiwan , real GDP fell more than 8 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter due
to the negative economic effects of SARS.  Component details have not yet beenreleased, but government statements indicated that private consumption fellconsiderably.  However, recent data have been encouraging.  Industrialproduction has picked up quite strongly in recent months, and all indications arethat the high-tech industry is rapidly in creasing output.  Export growth has risen,
and this has led to a considerable widening of the trade surplus.  In addition,export orders data are reaching new highs, with orders for electronics products atlevels not seen since the high-tech peak in late 2000.  Consumer prices havefallen recently, largely due to the effects of SARS.
IV-26
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP1-1.9 4.3 .0 -8.1 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.6 5.2 5.2 5.2 5.2 5.0 n.a.
Industrial production -7.3 6.4 -.2 -1.0 2.9 5.7 n.a.Consumer prices
3-1.7 .8 -.2 -.1 -.6 -1.0 -.6
Trade balance415.6 18.1 16.5 16.2 15.6 20.1 18.8
Current account517.9 25.7 29.8 26.3 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Economic conditions in Korea  have not improved substantially since the last
Greenbook.  Real GDP contracted about 3 pe rcent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter,
as geopolitical risks from North Korea’s nuclear development, labor unrest, andthe high level of household debt depressed private sector spending.  Industrialproduction declined about 4 percent in July, mainly due to strikes in the autosector, and the unemployment rate was unchanged at 3.6 percent.  Consumerconfidence indicators and retail sales were flat in July, suggesting continuedweakness in consumer spending, and twelve-month consumer price inflationinched down a bit in August.  However, consumer and business confidenceindicators were up in August.  And even though the trade surplus narrowed inJuly, due to rising imports, exports continued to grow.
On September 9, citing concerns that a much-awaited recovery had yet to take
shape, the Bank of Korea held the overnight call rate unchanged at 3.75 percent. 
IV-27
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP14.2 7.0 -1.6 -2.9 ... ... ...
Industrial production .4 8.3 .3 -.4 2.8 -3.9 n.a.Unemployment rate
23.8 3.1 3.1 3.4 3.6 3.6 n.a.
Consumer prices33.2 3.8 4.1 3.3 2.9 3.2 3.0
Trade balance413.5 14.2 9.4 19.3 26.6 19.8 n.a.
Current account58.2 6.1 -6.9 10.1 20.5 5.1 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Economic indicators in the ASEAN  region have been mixed since the last
Greenbook.  Indonesia and Malaysia posted robust growth in the second quarter. In Indonesia the expansion was widespread across all sectors, whereas inMalaysia healthy manufacturing growth offset slower growth in the servicesector.  In the Philippines, growth was marginal in the second quarter aftercontracting in the previous quarter, with the economy being held back by fiscaltightening and an agricultural sector suffering from prolonged drought.  InSingapore a drastic contraction in the SARS-affected service sector draggeddown the economy.  There is little hard information available yet for the thirdquarter, but industrial production increased in July in both Singapore andThailand.  With the exception of Singapore, trade balances narrowed in July asimports rose faster than exports.  Inflation remains benign, with Singapore againexperiencing mild price increases.
IV-28
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Real GDP1
Indonesia 1.7 3.8 4.5 6.3 ... ... ...
Malaysia -.9 5.3 2.9 6.9 ... ... ...Philippines 3.6 5.7 -2.1 .3 ... ... ...Singapore -6.0 3.0 1.4 -11.4 ... ... ...Thailand 2.2 6.4 6.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia3.7 -1.1 1.1 -2.5 -2.1 -.9 n.a.
Malaysia -4.1 4.6 2.1 4.0 4.7 -3.7 n.a.Philippines -5.7 -6.1 2.9 7.1 -2.9 8.5 n.a.Singapore -11.6 8.5 2.0 -4.0 -3.4 2.1 1.0Thailand 1.3 8.5 4.1 3.0 -1.9 -3.2 2.5
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 May June July
Indonesia 25.4 25.9 28.7 29.1 29.2 29.6 29.2
Malaysia 14.2 13.5 19.4 20.8 20.8 20.7 16.2Philippines -.9 -.2 -2.1 -1.2 -3.8 1.4 n.a.Singapore 5.8 8.7 16.3 13.2 15.2 14.1 19.5Thailand 2.5 3.4 5.7 5.8 4.1 7.6 4.2
n.a.  Not available.
IV-29
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20011200212003
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Indonesia 12.5 10.0 7.7 7.0 6.6 5.8 6.4
Malaysia 1.2 1.7 1.3 .9 .8 1.0 n.a.Philippines 4.1 2.6 2.9 3.0 3.4 3.4 3.0Singapore -.6 .4 .7 .2 -.3 .3 n.a.Thailand .8 1.6 2.0 1.8 1.7 1.8 2.2
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available
In Mexico , recent information suggests that the economy showed some recovery
in the second quarter following a first-quarter contraction, although theimprovement was uneven.  Real GDP posted an annual rate gain of nearly5 percent, with increases in agriculture and mining (including oil), and also intrade and financial services.  However, industrial production declined in May andJune and for the quarter on average.  Exports also fell in the second quarter. Nevertheless, some positive indications appeared later in the quarter, as exportsrose in June and were little changed in July.  Retail sales also rose in June, andbusiness confidence remained steady at a relatively favorable level through July. Twelve-month inflation has continued to fall and has reached the top of theone-percentage-point band around the 3 percent target for this year.  Inflationexpectations have also fallen.
IV-30
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP1-1.4 2.0 -1.7 4.9 ... ... ...
Overall economic activity -.1 .9 .2 .4 .5 n.a. n.a.Industrial production -3.3 -.2 .1 -.7 -.2 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
22.5 2.7 2.7 3.0 3.4 3.5 n.a.
Consumer prices3 4.4 5.7 5.4 4.7 4.3 4.1 4.0
Trade balance4-10.0 -7.9 -4.0 -7.5 -6.7 -7.6 n.a.
Imports4168.4 168.7 169.0 168.5 169.4 170.0 n.a.
Exports4158.4 160.8 165.0 161.0 162.7 162.4 n.a.
Current account5-18.0 -14.0 -8.7 -5.9 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Brazil , real GDP dropped 6.2 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the second quarter, as sharp
declines in private consumption and investment more than offset positive growthin net exports.  First-quarter GDP growth was also revised down from-0.2 percent to -2.3 percent.  Only a sharp rebound in oil production keptindustrial production growth positive in July.  The weak economy keptinflationary pressures at bay: despite a rise in prices in July and August due toannual adjustments in utility rates, twelve-month inflation continued to decline. Brazil has continued to register sizeable trade surpluses, contributing to a smallcurrent account surplus.  The weak economy and the decline in inflation led thecentral bank on August 20 to reduce its benchmark overnight interest rate, theSelic, for the third time this year, from 24.5 to 22 percent.
The Brazilian government met its second-quarter IMF program performance
criteria, leading to a disbursement of $4 billion in early September (about$1.3 billion is due to the IMF over the third quarter).  The government’s pensionand tax reform bills continued to make progress in the congress.
IV-31
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP1-.9 3.2 -2.3 -6.2 ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.6 2.4 -1.1 -2.5 -2.6 .4 n.a.Unemployment rate
212.4 12.5 11.1 12.1 12.6 12.7 n.a.
Consumer prices37.7 12.5 15.6 16.9 16.6 15.4 15.1
Trade balance42.7 13.1 17.0 23.6 24.8 22.8 26.4
Current account5-23.2 -7.7 .3 1.6 5.7 8.9 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Break in October 2001 as a result of change in methodology.  Thus, 2001 is
average for Q4 only.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, ex cept annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , the incipient economic recovery continues.  After three months of
disappointing performance, industrial production rose 1.5 percent in July. Inflation has remained under control: in August the consumer price index rose0.3 percent from the previous month, bringing the twelve-month inflation ratedown to just under 5 percent.  After significant appreciation in the first half ofthe year, the peso depreciated 1.3 percent against the dollar in August, and it nowappears to have stabilized at just under 3 pesos per dollar. 
Argentina’s IMF program, approved last January, expired at the end of August. 
Whereas fiscal and monetary targets agreed with the IMF have been met, thecountry had difficulties satisfying some of the program’s structural conditions.On September 9, Argentina failed to make a key $2.9 billion payment to theIMF, as a medium-term, three-year agreement with the Fund was not reached.However, negotiations are continuing.  Some issues currently being negotiatedinclude the size of the primary surplus, compensation to banks for actionsundertaken by the government that damaged banks’ balance sheets, and utilityrates.  The Argentine authorities have indicated their desire to present a debtrestructuring plan to private sector creditors in late September, assuming an IMFagreement will be in place by then.  However, creditors are concerned thatArgentina might present a take-it-or-leave-it offer.
IV-32
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP1 -10.3 -3.3 10.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -7.6 -10.7 7.7 .0 .2 1.5 n.a.Unemployment rate
218.1 20.4 16.4 16.4 ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -1.4 41.0 35.8 14.5 10.2 7.3 4.9
Trade balance47.5 16.7 15.7 19.1 18.6 18.3 n.a.
Current account5-4.5 9.6 7.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data for Greater Bu enos Aires.  Data released semi-annually.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Venezuela, little new data have been released since the last Greenbook.  July
oil output remained at its second-quarter average, estimated to be at capacity, butstill 15 percent below levels prevailing before the general strike at the end of lastyear. There have been no signs of a recovery in the non-oil sector.  Unemployment remained around 18 percent in June.  The government continuesto maintain stringent capital controls to support the fixed-exchange rate regimeintroduced last January.
In late August, following months of political deadlock, the Supreme Court
appointed members of an electoral council, strengthening prospects thatPresident Chavez will face a recall election on November 20.
IV-33
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q1 Q2 June July Aug.
Real GDP1 .9 -16.7 -52.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 16.0 19.4 18.4 17.8 n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices312.3 31.2 35.5 34.2 34.2 31.8 30.4
Non-oil trade balance4-12.2 -7.4 -2.5 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance49.3 13.9 12.8 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account53.9 7.7 7.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.