Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 5/20/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                      April 30, 2003
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                         April 30, 2003
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developm ents
Overview 
The subpar pace of economic activity  that has prevailed since last summer 
continued in the first quarter. The labor market, industrial production, and 
business investment rema ined anemic, while cons umption and housing  activity 
softened a little in recent months, albeit from relatively  high levels. We have 
only scattered bits of infor mation on a ctivity  since the apparent end of the war 
with I raq, and we cannot y et discern whet her the uncertainty  that may  have been 
restraining  private spending  has lif ted. While consumer confidence and 
spendi ng seem  to have m oved up i n Apri l, the m ost recent  figures on 
unemploy ment insur ance claims point to f urther job-trimming  by busine sses. 
Consistent with current levels of  product- and labor-market slack, core 
consum er pri ces have cont inued t o decel erate in recent  months. 
Real G ross Dom estic P roduct 
According  to the advance estimate pr epared by  the B ureau of Economic 
Analy sis (B EA), real GDP in creased at an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the first 
quart er, roug hly in line wi th the lackluster pace of t he fourt h quart er. Final sales 
rose 2.1 percent in the first quarter, a per centag e point faster than in the previous 
quart er, whi le the pace of i nvent ory accum ulation sl owed. Among the 
components of final demand, real PCE in creased slowly , and business spending 
on both nonresidential structures and equipment and software declined. 
Residential inve stme nt posted another solid g ain, while g overnment spending 
increased at  a much sl ower pace t han i n the fourt h quart er. In the ex ternal 
sector, bot h imports and ex ports decl ined, but  because t he decrease i n imports 
was mor e substa ntial, the  combine d arithme tic influence of net exports wa s to 
add nearly  a percentag e point to firs t-quarter g rowth. Based on the small 
amount of data we have received since the release of this advance estimate, we 
do not y et anticipate any significant revisions to the  GDP e stimates for the first 
quarter. 
Labor Mark et Devel opments 
The labor market continued to  deteriorate in the  first quarter. In March, private 
nonfarm pay rolls dropped 68,000, roug hly on par with the averag e monthly 
declines since the beg inning  of the fourth  quarter. Job cuts in March were ag ain 
concent rated in manufact uring, retail trade, and transportation and public 
utilities––industries that have been shedding  workers for some time.1 In 
addition, employ ment in services, a sector  in which pay rolls had been trending 
up since late 2001, fell for a second mont h in March. Meanwhile, ag gregate 
1. From  the middle of  Decem ber to th e middle of  April, th e number of  activ e-duty reservists 
increas ed by  an average of abou t 40,000 per m onth. Becau se not all res ervists prev iously had 
jobs in the priv ate n onfarm sector, an d becau se employers may have hired replacem ents for some 
reservists called to activ e duty, the effect of  reserve call- ups on the change in private n onfarm 
payroll employment is likely considerabl y less than 40,000 per m onth. 
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
hours of production or nonsupervisory  work ers increased 0.3 percent in March, 
reflecting  a bounceback in the workweek  from its weather-depressed F ebruary 
level. For the first quarter as a whole, however, ag gregate hours declined at an 
annual rate of 0.4 percent,  extending  the g radual decline evident since the 
middle of last y ear. 
In the household survey , the unemploy ment rate held at 5.8 percent in March, 
unchang ed on net since the third quarter. As we have noted previously , the lack 
of deterioration in the  unemploy ment rate seems puzzling  given the  declines in 
payroll employ ment; moreover, other da ta (both from the household survey  and 
elsewhere) appear i n line wi th the worseni ng of condi tions seen i n the 
establishment survey . An important reason for the absence of any  rise in the 
joble ss rate is the  decline in the  labor force participation r ate, whic h edged down 
a further 0.1 percentag e point in March, bring ing the overall drop since the third 
quarter to nearly  1/2 percentag e point. This de cline in pa rticipation like ly 
reflects potential job seekers leaving  the labor market in response to bleak 
employ ment prospects. Indeed, th e employ ment-to-population ratio, which 
provides an alternative g auge of labor market conditions from the perspective of 
the household survey , has fallen noticeably since the third quarter. In addition, 
the percentag e of employ ees working  part-time for economic reasons has moved 
up sharply , on net, since the third quarter. 
The most recent reading s on initial claims for unemploy ment insurance sug gest 
that job c uts continue d we ll into Apr il. The four-week moving  average of initia l 
claims stood at 439,000 for the week ended April 19, above both its level a 
month ago and i ts averag e since t he beginning  of the fourth quarter.2 The four-
week moving  averag e of insured unemploy ment stood at 3.5 million for the 
week ended April 12 and has been incr easing  since the beg inning  of March. 
Other labor market indicators have been  mixed. The Conference B oard’s help-
wanted index  edged down further in March, while hiring  plans of small 
businesses, as reported by  the Nationa l Federation of I ndependent B usinesses, 
dropped to their lowest level since 1991. Layoff announcements receded in 
March accordi ng to the out placem ent firm Challenger, Grey , and C hristmas, but 
they appear to have edg ed back up in April (as tracked by  Board staff throug h 
April 29). In contrast, individuals re sponding  to the Conference B oard’s survey 
of consumer confidence had a slig htly better assessment of current employ ment 
2. The Employment and Training A dministration has releas ed rev ised seasonal factors  for 
initial claim s datin g back  to 1988. The new seasonal factors  now control appropriately  for the 
effect of the attacks of September 11, 2001, an d incorporat e another year of  data. As a res ult, we 
no longer need to present initial claim s and insured unemployment figures that have been 
adjusted w ith altern ative seasonal factors . 
II-6
conditions in Apr il relative to Ma rch, while  expectations of future labor-market 
conditions improved in both the Michig an and Conference B oard survey s. 
Output per Hour 
(Percent ch ange from preceding  perio d at co mpound annua l rate; 
based on season ally adjusted data) 
Sector 20011 20021, 2 2002 2003 
Q2 Q3  Q42 Q12 
Nonfarm businesses 
All persons3 1.9 4.0 1.7 5.4 .7 1.4 
2.0 4.3 1.5 6.7 1.8 1.4 All emp loyees4 
1. Change is from fourth quarter of  the precedin g year to f ourth quarter of  the year shown. 
2. Staf f estimate. 
3. Includes non-employees (p ublished definition). 
4. Assumes that the growth rate o f hours of all p ersons equals the growth rate o f hours of all 
employees. 
On Ma y 1, the  Bureau of Labor Statistic s will r elease its a dvance estimate of 
productivity  for the first quarter. Based on the NI PA output data and the 
available data on hours, we estimate that output per hour in the nonfarm 
business sector increased at an annual ra te of 1.4 percent in the first quarter, 
bring ing the four-quarter chang e in this  series to 2.3 percent, slig htly below its 
averag e pace since the middle of 1995.3 
Earlier this month, the B LS reporte d that multifactor productivity  (MF P) 
decreased 1.0 percent in 2001, the first decline since 1991.4 In contrast to labor 
productivity —which measures output  per hour—multifactor productivity 
measures output per unit of total input, taking  account of bot h labor and capital 
inputs. Because the B LS does not adjust  these input measures for chang es in 
utiliz ation, measured MF P typically  declines in recessions when factor 
3. In estim ating hours worked by the self -employed, we have attem pted to control for 
one-time jumps cau sed by the conversion of the Current Population Survey to the No rth 
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and the introduction of new popu lation 
weights in January 2003. Unfortunately, we are n ot yet able to mimic the adj ustment that the 
BLS will be making to acco unt for the series b reak. The BLS estim ates are su bject to  change 
right up until pu blication  and, as of Green book  day, the modification s that it w ould be m aking 
were not finalized. 
4. The BLS only reports these figures as annua l averages, and hence the num bers cited here 
are percent changes in the annua l averages. 
II-7
utiliz ation falls and measured inputs dec line by  less than actual inputs. From 
1995 throug h 2000, multifactor productivity  increased at an averag e rate of 
1.1 percent per y ear. 
Productivity G rowth and its Com ponents 
(Annua l percent change except as noted) 
Measure 1979- 90 1990- 95	1995-19991 20001 20012000 
Output per hour 1.4 1.6 2.5 2.4 2.9 1.2 
Cont ribution 
(percentage points) 
Capital d eepening .8 .5 1.1 1.2 1.5 1.7 
Labor com position .3 .4 .3 .4 .0 .6 
Multifactor p roductivity .3 .6 1.1 .7 1.4 -1.0 
Note. Components may not sum to totals  becau se of rounding. 
1. The BL S did not report  the con tribution of capital deepen ing and the con tribution of 
changing labor com position for 1999 an d 2000; th e table s hows staff estimates for these years 
that are bas ed on the new BLS data. 
The MFP  release al so showed t hat capital deepeni ng—the increase i n the 
quantity  of capital services used pe r hour worked—contributed 1.7 percentag e 
points to labor productivity  growth in  2001 and 1.5 percentag e points in 2000, 
somewhat larg er contributions than we had anticipated. In addition, chang es in 
the composition of labor toward more -skilled workers added 0.6 percentag e 
point to labor productivity  growth in 2001, double the averag e contribution from 
this source in the late 1990s. Layoffs of less-skilled work ers g enerally  rise 
disproportionately  in rece ssions, but the jump in the contribution of labor 
composition ex ceeded our ex pectations. 
This inform ation has l ed us t o alter som ewhat  our i nterpret ation of t he recent 
streng th in labor productivity  growth. In particular, we now  believe that more 
of the recent g rowth in structural la bor productivity  owed to capital deepening 
rather than to the technolog ical and or ganizational chang es associated with the 
growth of structural MF P. In additi on, we now ascribe somewhat less of the 
recent streng th in the cy clical component of labor productivity  to the effect of an 
uncertain business outlook on hiring  and attribute somewhat more to a 
tempor ary change in the  skill distr ibution of  employed wor kers. 
II-8
II-9
Indust rial P roduc tion 
Total industrial production, wh ich fell 0.5 percent in Ma rch, has been volatile in 
recent  months due t o sharp swi ngs in motor vehi cle assem blies and 
weather-related fluctuations in output at utilities. Excluding  motor vehicles and 
parts, manufacturing  produc tion was little chang ed in February  and March. 
Since its troug h in December 2001, ma nufacturing  output has risen only  a 
meag er 0.9 percent. Consequently , despite  only  marg inal increments to capacity 
since then, the factory  operating  rate stood at 72.9 percent in March, 
0.1 percentag e point below its December 2001 rate and the lo west rate since 
May 1983. 
New  Orders for Du rable Good s 
(Percen t change from p receding period except as n oted; season ally adjusted) 
Component Share, 
2001: 
H1 
(percen t) 2002 2003 
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. 
Total orders 100.0 -2.8 1.1 2.1 -1.5 2.0 
Adjus ted orders1 76.2 -1.8 .3 2.7 -1.8 1.7 
Computers 4.5 1.3 -3.4 .9 -12.7 1.3 
Communication equipment 4.1 6.0 30.6 46.9 -.1 .6 
Other cap ital good s 24.5 -1.3 1.1 1.8 -1.1 3.9 
Other2 43.1 -2.8 -1.6 .9 -1.2 .6 
MEMO 
Real adjusted orders  . . . -1.6 .7 2.5 -1.3 1.4 
Excluding high tech  . . . -2.9 -.5 1.5 -1.2 1.3 
1. Orders excluding defense capi tal goods , nondefense aircraf t, and motor vehicle part s. 
2. Primary metals, most fabricated m etals, most stone, clay , and glass produ cts, household 
appliances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods . 
. . . Not applicable. 
Weekly  physical product data and othe r indicators of production sug gest that 
total industrial output will be  down in April. Motor vehicle assemblies, which 
are scheduled to f all for a third consecutive  month, will like ly subtr act 
0.1 percentag e point from the chang e in IP. In addition, the April reading s on 
new orders from the F RB New York, FRB Philadelphia, and NAPM Chicag o 
business survey s declined markedly , and, taken by  themselves, sug gest that 
production outside of the motor vehicle a nd hig h-tech sectors contracted further 
following  small declines in February and March. By contrast, real adjusted 
durable g oods orders, which are calcula ted from data collected by  the Census 
Bureau, rose 1.4 percent in Ma rch (not at an annual rate ) after having  fallen by  a 
II-10
II-11
II-12
similar amount in F ebruary ; on net, the three-month moving  averag e of this 
orders series was up 0.9 percent in March. 
Production in the hig h-tech sector increas ed at an annual rate of 6.9 percent in 
the first quarter, about the same as in  the preceding  quarter. Real output of 
semiconductors decelerated sharply  in th e first quarter, after having  posted 
moderate g ains for much of 2002. Looking  ahead, semiconductor production is 
unlike ly to approach the  more substa ntial rates of increase recorded prior to the 
industry 's downturn without a sig nifican t pickup in demand for microprocessor 
units (MPUs), the hig h-value chips used pr imarily in compute rs. In this r egard, 
first-quarter earning s for I ntel Corpor ation, which derive s 80 percent of its 
revenue from MPUs and accounts for a bout 80 percent of worldwide MPU 
shipments, were boosted by  a shift to ward hig her-marg in MPUs for laptop 
computers, and the company 's revenue guidance for the second quarter seems 
consi stent with an accel eration in MP U out put.5 
Production of communications equipment wa s essentially  unchang ed in the first 
quarter, following  an eig ht-quarter string  of sig nificant drops. Output jumped 
more than 2 percent  in March, and recen t indicators sug gest moderat e advances 
going forward. In particular, the thr ee-month moving  averag e of orders for 
communications equipment has been tre nding  upward, and a monthly  survey  of 
chief inform ation offi cers reg arding planned spending  on local area networking 
equipment (such as routers, switches,  and hubs) improved notably  in March. 
However, prospects for demand from telecommunic ations service providers 
remain dim; the se firms plan further reductions in c apital spending  this y ear. 
The output of computers increased in th e first quarter, althoug h at a slig htly 
slower clip than in the fourth quarter  of 2002, when the production of computers 
for consumer use rose sharply . Accordi ng to a March survey  of chi ef 
information officers, businesses seem to  be upping  their spending  plans for 
computers. In addition, the NAB E survey  for April (which does not 
differentiate between computers and communications equipment spending ) 
recorded a m arked i mprovem ent in intended ex penditures on hig h-tech 
equipment, putting  the series’ diffusion index  back at its April 2002 level. 
However, industry  sources indicate th at the ex pected surg e in computer 
production associated with the replacem ent of P Cs that were purchased in 
advance of Y2K has been pushed back further and is now not ex pected to 
comme nce in earnest until la te this y ear. 
5. Intel's revenue guidance for the second quarter had a wider than normal range, due to 
uncertain ties su rrounding events in Iraq, the sev ere acu te resp iratory syndrome (SARS), th e 
delay  of the introdu ction  of a new com puter ch ip, an d the com pany's own efforts to reg ain 
market share for flash memory that was lost to other vendors when Intel tried  to raise its f lash 
memory prices in January beyond what the market would support . 
II-13
Outside of energ y, motor vehi cles and parts, and the hig h-tech sector, 
production fell during  the first quarter acr oss nearly  all major market g roups; 
indeed, the three-month di ffusion index  for this categ ory of industries remained 
well below 50 in March, indicating  that the number of industries in which 
production was below the December le vel ex ceeded the number in which 
production rose over that period. One not able ex ception to the g eneral pattern 
of weakness has been t he out put of defe nse and space equi pment, whi ch rose at 
an annual rate of 9-1/2 per cent in the first quarter to a level nearly  7 percent 
above a y ear ag o. Production of military  aircraft, the larg est component of 
defense and space equi pment, has ri sen for ei ght straight quart ers at  an averag e 
annual rate of a bout 12 percent. 
Turning  to upstream market g roups, th e output of construction supplies and 
durable materials––which comprise a bout 20 percent of total I P––each fell at 
least 0.3 percent in both F ebruary  and Ma rch. Available weekly  data indicate 
that the output of iron and steel products was unchang ed in Ap ril, despite a run-
up in the inventory -sales ratio at steel service centers. The production of 
business supplies and nondurable materials, on the ot her hand, has chang ed little 
in recent  months. 
Motor Veh icles 
Light vehicle sales increased in Marc h to an annual rate of 16.1 million units, 
retracing  February ’s weather-related d ecline. In addition, industry  contacts 
indicate that a stepped-up level of in centives—which have risen to a record 
$2,200—boosted the pace of vehicle sales furt her in April. At the same time, 
the Michigan Sur vey inde x of car-buying attitude s recovered in Apr il, with 
many  respondents reporting  good buys and low financing  rates. 
In contrast, incoming  data sug gest that business demand for vehicles has 
softened. Fleet sales of lig ht vehicles fell 5 percent (not at  an annual rate) in 
March, their third consecutive monthly  decline . The step down in sa les like ly 
reflected, in part, weak demand from rent al car companies in response to bleak 
conditions in the travel industry . Sales of medium and heavy  trucks also 
declined in March to their lowest le vel since May  1994. Moreover, orders for 
new trucks dropped in F ebruary and March, an indi cation that truck sales 
volumes may  remain weak over the nex t few months. 
Althoug h total motor vehicle production fell sharply  in February  and March, 
production averag ed a robust annual ra te of 12.3 million units for the first 
quarter as a whole, about the same pace as  in the fourth quarter of last y ear. 
With the level of production running  ahead of domestic sales, domestic 
invent ories of l ight vehi cles increased not iceabl y in the first three m onths of t he 
year, pushing  days’ supply  for lig ht moto r vehicles above 73 in both F ebruary 
II-14
II-15
II-16
II-17
and March; meanwhile day s’ supply  of medium and heavy  trucks has also 
moved up to an uncomfortably  high level. Reflecting  their concerns about 
current inventory  levels, vehicle manufacturers have lowered production 
schedules for the second quarter––throug h probably  not by  enoug h to resolve 
the present inve ntory situa tion by  the end of the quarter. 
Consum er Spending 
Real personal consumer ex penditures increased a modest 1.4 percent (annual 
rate) in the first quarter, held down by  a further decline in motor vehicle 
purchases and a drop in outlay s for energ y-related g oods and services. 
Althoug h the economic fundamentals underly ing consumption were lackluster 
in the first quarter, recent rebounds in st ock prices and consumer confidence, 
along  with the sharp drop in energ y prices  currently  in process, appear likely  to 
support more siz able spending  gains in coming  months. 
Real consumer outlay s for durable goods ex cluding  motor vehicles rose 
1.1 percent in March after falling  0.3 percent in F ebruary. In contrast, outlay s 
for nondurable g oods declined in both months. Expenditures on energ y services 
fell sharply  in March, owing  to unseasona bly warm weather, while spending  on 
non-energ y services inched up, restrained  somewhat by  a drop in spending  on 
airline transportation that may  have b een related to concerns about war and 
SARS. Althoug h expenditures entered th e second quarter on a weak trajectory , 
recent  anecdot es from  retailers, as wel l as weekl y data on chai n-store sal es, 
suggest that spendi ng at retail outlets likely rose at  a moderat e pace i n Apri l. 
A weak labor market and rising  energ y prices damped the g rowth of real 
disposable income in the first quarter. In addition, household net worth appears 
to ha ve changed little  last qua rter, and the  wealth-to-income ratio edged down to 
its lowest level since the middle of 1995. Movements in stoc k prices and energ y 
prices since late March should have a more favorable effect on consumer 
demand, althoug h the weak labor market  will likely  continue to ex ert some 
restraint. The personal sa ving rate edg ed down to 3.7 percent in the first quarter 
but is still hig h relative to its a verage over the past several years, consiste nt with 
the erosion of household net worth during  that period.6 
Both the  Michigan Sur vey Research Center's inde x of consume r sentime nt and 
the Conference B oard' s index  of consumer confidence rebounded sharply  in 
April after their declines in February and March. In both survey s, consumers' 
6. Relative to what was report ed in the March  Greenbook , the published saving rate has 
been  revised dow n 0.3 t o 0.4 percen tage point over the pas t three qu arters owing to the BEA ’s 
incorporation of wage and salary  data from state u nemployment insurance tax  reco rds for the 
third quarter o f last y ear; th ese d ata were lower than assu med earlier. 
II-18
II-19
assessments of both current and ex pected conditions moved up. Both index es 
are now broadly  in line with recent economic fundamentals, sug gesting  that 
some of the non-economic factors th at had been weig hing on household 
sentime nt ma y have subside d. 
Housing Mark ets 
Althoug h residential constr uction increased rapidly in the first quarter as 
mortgage rates dippe d to ne w lows, the re are some  signs tha t a softening may be 
in train. In the sing le-family  sector , unusually  good weather in J anuary  and 
poor weather in F ebruary  made for an e rratic monthly  pattern in starts, but for 
the quarter as a whole, new homes were  started at an a nnual rate of 1.41 million 
units, equal ing the fourt h-quart er pace. However, new perm it 
issua nce—adjuste d for activity  in areas whe re permits a re not r equired—fell to 
an annual rate of 1.37 million units in F ebruary and held at that lower level in 
March; this le vel of permits is c onsiste nt with some what fewer starts in c oming 
months. In the multifamily  sector, units  were started at an annual rate of 
340,000 in the first quarter, similar to the pace in the fourth quarter. 
New hom e sales in the first quart er were bel ow their fourt h-quart er pace, st rong 
sales in March notwithsta nding . Existing  home sales—adjusted by  the staff to 
eliminate trading -day variation—were about  unchang ed in the first quarter from 
the fourth quarter’s record hig h pace of about 5-3/4 million units (annual rate). 
All told, the  BEA translated the  available starts and sa les data into a  12 pe rcent 
increase i n real  spendi ng in the first quarter. The latest  data on home sales 
imply  a small downward revision to this fig ure. 
Other indicators of housing demand have been mix ed. The Michig an Survey ’s 
measure of home -buying attitude s edged up in Apr il but r emains be low its 
February  level. The National Associa tion of Homebuilders’  index  of builders’ 
attitudes has turned down in recent mont hs as well. However, the four-week 
moving averag e of t he Mort gage Bankers Association index  of purchase 
applications has moved up si nce late F ebruary  and curre ntly stands near its all-
time high. 
House prices decelerated in  the first quarter. The qua lity-adjusted price of new 
homes sold last quarter was up about  2-1/2 percent from a y ear earlier, 
compared wi th a 6 percent  gain duri ng the comparable period four quarters 
earlier. The averag e price of ex isting homes sold was up 6-1/2 percent during 
the y ear ending  last quarter, down fro m the 8-1/2 percent g ain during  the 
previous y ear but still a  large increase; median prices followe d a simila r pattern. 
II-20
II-21
II-22
II-23
Business F ixed Investm ent
Equipm ent and soft ware. Real outlay s on equipment and software fell at an
annual rate of 4.4 percent in the first quarter of 2003, reversing  much of the
increase posted in the final quarter of  2002. A drop in business spending  on
motor vehicles and aircraft more than accounted for the first-quarter decline. 
Excluding  transportation equipment, r eal spending  advanc ed 3.0 percent last
quarter, a moderate pickup from its pace in the fourth quarter. Althoug h the
fundamental drivers of i nvestment—such as busine ss output g rowth and real
corporat e cash fl ow—rem ain favorabl e, anecdotal reports from businesses
continue to be downbeat.
In the hi gh-tech area, real  busi ness purchases of computers and peripheral
equipment surg ed at an annual rate of 27.9 percent in the first quarter, following
a 7.7 percent g ain in the fourth quarter . However, nominal shipments fell in
both February  and March, and orders have edg ed down on bal ance i n recent
months. Real outlay s on communicati ons equipment increased 18.6 percent in
the first quarter after a poor showing  in the second half of last y ear. Moreover,
communications orders ha ve trended upward over th e past few months. In
contrast to computers and communications  spending , real purchases of software
posted only  a modest g ain in the first quarter.
In the transportation categ ory, busine ss spending  on motor vehicles dropped at
an annual rate of 33.7 percent in the firs t quarter, larg ely reflecting  the declines
in fleet sales and truck sa les reported above. Busine ss investment in aircraft
also decreased i n the first quart er and is 50 percent below its level a y ear ag o. 
Real spending  outside th e hig h-tech and transpor tation categ ories dropped
3.6 percent at an annual rate in the firs t quarter, after a 2.1 percent rise in the
precedi ng quart er. However, nom inal shipments moved up i n March, bucki ng
the slide initiated in the middle of 2002. Orders also increased noticeably  in
March, with the 3.9 percent rise the larg est since last summer.
Nonresidential construction. The ex tended decline in real investment
spending  on nonresidential structures mode rated further in the first quarter, with
outlay s falling  at an annua l rate of just 3.4 percent. Spending  on office
building s was off roug hly 30 percent (annua l rate) in the first quarter and was 
down 50 percent from its peak at the end of 2000. The vacancy  rate in this
sector moved up ag ain last quarter, t houg h not by  as much as it had a y ear
earlier. Spending  on industrial building s decreased at an annual rate of about
3-1/4 percent in the first quarter after having  dropped almost  40 percent over the
four quarters of 2002; the ex tremely  low level of capacity  utiliz ation in the
manufacturing sector suggests tha t spending  will like ly fall still f urther.

II-24
II-25
II-26
II-27
II-28
II-29
Spending  on lodg ing and miscellaneous building s was down 10 percent in the 
first qua rter, and spe nding  in the  public  utility  sector was unc hanged. 
A brig hter picture is evident in so me other categ ories of nonresidential 
construction. Spending  on building s in the other commercial sector, which 
includes building s used for retail and whol esale trade, rose at an annual rate of 
almost 11 pe rcent in the  first qua rter after having  moved up a bit in the fourth. 
Institutional spending , which includes building s used by  private schools, 
hospitals, and relig ious g roups, moved dow n 6-1/2 percent (annual rate) in the 
first quarter, but this decline followed an outsiz ed gain of 24 percent in the 
fourth quarter. 
In the drilling  and mining  sector, spendi ng rose at an annual rate of about 
32 percent in the first quarter after having  fallen about 24 percent in 2002. 
Drilling  activity  increased further in Apr il, sug gesting  that spending  on oil a nd 
gas drilling  structures entered the second quarter on solid footing . 
Business In ventories 
Real nonfarm inventories ex cluding  motor vehicles appear to have declined a 
little in the first quarter, after accumulatin g at an averag e $14-1/2 billion rate in 
the previous two quarters. Including  the chang e in motor vehicle stocks, the 
swing in invent ory accum ulation bet ween t he first and fourt h quart ers subt racted 
1/2 percentag e point from first-quarter GDP g rowth.7 Relative to sales, non-
auto invent ory stocks i n most sectors are fai rly lean by  recent  standards. 
In March, day s' supply  in the staff' s flow-of-g oods sy stem––which measures 
inventories wherever held––retreated s lightly from F ebruary 's elevated level.8 
However, both the run-up and recent volatility  in day s' supply  are attributable to 
7. The BEA 's first-quarter estimate incorporat es January and February book -value data for 
the manufacturing and trade s ector, w hich showed an  average accu mulation  excluding motor 
vehicles of $23 billion  (annua l rate), as well as data on durable goods  manufacturers’ stocks in 
March . The discrepan cy between the real  and book -value changes in inventories is attributable 
primarily to the pass-through t o various prices of the substantial increase in the cost of crude oil. 
8. The FRB staff's flow-of-goods  system measures changes in inventories by tracking the 
flow of goods  in the econ omy. The system divides the output from the staff's industrial 
produ ction  indexes into more than sixty different produ ct categ ories  and, for each  produ ct 
category, estimates the supply of goods  flowing into the econ omy––that is, dom estic produ ction 
plus imports––as well as how much of the supply flows out, whether as final dem and, including 
exports, or as  inputs for other goods . The difference bet ween the am ount flowing in and the 
amount flowing out repres ents the change in inventories  (where accu mulation  occu rs when 
inflows exceed ou tflows and liqu idation  occu rs when outflows exceed in flows). The inventories 
are m easured w herever held an d valued at f actory -gate prices . Each  individual industry has a 
constant target month's sup ply level, so that long-run m ovements in aggregate 
inventory-consumption ratio s primarily reflect sh ifts in industry composition. 
II-30
II-31
stocks of motor vehicles and parts. Excluding  motor vehicles and parts, day s'
supply  has g enerally  been trending  down, and only  a few imbalances are
apparent at the industry level––the ex ceptions bein g textile mills and paper,
where day s' supply  levels have ri sen notably  in recent months, and
communications equipment and electrical equipmen t, where day s’ supply
remains elevated.
Govern ment Sector
Federal sector.  On a rolling  twelve-month ba sis, the federal unified budg et
deficit widened further to around $280 billi on for the twelve months ending  in
March. In addition, Cong ress passed the Supplementa l Appropriations Act to
Support Department of Defe nse Operations in I raq for F iscal Year 2003 and a
budg et resolution that allows for additional spending  increases and tax  cuts. 
The budg et resolution projects a unified budg et deficit of nearly  $400 billion in
fiscal 2004.
Federal unified budg et receipts edg ed down slightly in the first quarter relative
to a y ear earlier as individual income and pay roll tax es were about flat and
corporate income taxes fell. Daily Treasury  data throug h April 29 indicate that
nonwithheld income tax  payments in Ap ril are coming  in lower than a y ear
earlier, while I RS data show that refunds are running  just a little hig her than last
year. These data, in conjunction with the available fig ures on withheld and
estimated inc ome tax collections, indic ate that personal income tax liability  fell
substantially  in calendar y ear 2002, desp ite a small increase in NI PA-based
taxable income.9 Net corporate income tax collections f ell in the  first qua rter
relative to a year earlier, like ly reflecting the effects of partial expensing  and
other temporary  corporate income tax provisions enacted in March 2002. 
According to da ily Treasury data, corporate income tax payments in Apr il
(mostly  estimated tax es on first-quarter ear nings) were well above their previous
(post ta x-change) year’s level.
The Monthly  Treasury  Statement has show n a widespread slowing  in the g rowth
of nom inal outlays in recent  quart ers, part icularly in defense and t he m ajor
entitle ment programs. The BEA now e stimates that real defense spending  was
virtually  unchang ed in the first quarter after having  risen at  an annual rate of
11 percent in the fourth quarter. 
9. W e estimate th at the effectiv e tax  rate, on  a liability  basis, fell from 11.9 percen t in 2001 
to 10.5 percen t in 2002, w ith only 0.2 percen tage point of the redu ction due to changes in tax 
law. A port ion of the rem aining 1.2 percen tage points may have resulted from another decl ine in 
capital g ains realizatio ns. 
II-32
II-33
Cong ress enacted a $79 billion supplementa l appropriations bill for fiscal 2003 
that included $63 billion for the Department of Defense (DOD), $8 billion in 
foreign aid and huma nitarian assista nce, $4 billion f or home land se curity, and 
$3 billion for assistance to the aviation i ndustry  (aid to airlines, airports, and 
aviation wor kers).10 The Cong ressiona l Budget Office (CBO) has estimated tha t 
the supplemental bill will boost defens e spending  by $34 billion and overall 
spending  by $42 billion in fiscal 2003, with the remainder spent in future y ears. 
Given the amount of defense spending that has occurred over the first six 
months of  the fiscal year, the CBO estimates imply  large increases during the 
second half of the fiscal y ear. 
Cong ress also passed a budg et resolution for fiscal 2004 that proposes to cut 
taxes by $1.2 trillion over eleven y ears, boost Medicare spending  by 
$400 billion, adopt the Administration’s disc retionary  spending  totals for fiscal 
2004, and balance the budg et by  2012. In terms of tax es, the budg et resolution 
assumes that a $1.2 trillion tax  cut will be enacted, but reconciliation 
instructions––which allow for ex pedited legislative procedures in the 
Senate––provide for consider ably smaller amounts. The resolution stipulates 
that the House  Ways and Me ans and Se nate Finance committe es shall report out 
of their committe es by May 8 a reconciliation bill with a  tax cut of up to 
$550 billion over fiscal y ears 2003 to 2013, but that the reconciliation bill will 
be subject to a point of order in the Senate if the tax  cut ex ceeds $350 billion.11 
State an d local govern ment sector.  Real purchases by  state and l ocal 
governments edg ed down in the first qua rter. Real consumption ex penditures 
increased at an annual rate of 0.6 per cent, considerably  below the 1.8 percent 
rise over the four quarters of last y ear. These out lays, whi ch measure t he 
sector's aggregate spendi ng on current operat ions, have been decel erating since 
the second half of 2001. Real spending for g ross investment fell at an annual 
rate of 2.7 percent in the first quarter , following  a small increase last y ear. 
Meanwhile, on the revenue side, pe rsonal and indirect business tax 
collections––t he m ajor source of recei pts for t he sect or––m oved up i n the first 
quarter after remaining largely unchang ed over 2002. 
10. A ccordin g to th e President’s submittal, the DOD m oney included $58 billion  for the war 
in Iraq (of  which $12 billion  was for occu pation  costs through t he end of this fiscal year) and 
$5 billion for classif ied anti-terro rist activ ities, R& D programs, and other activ ities. 
11. A  tax cut abov e $350 billion  and below  $550 billion  would need s ixty votes in the 
Senate when the bill is initia lly considered, but, owing to  some special langua ge added to the 
resolution, the bill would need only fifty-one votes w hen the conference rep ort is co nsidered. 
However, in order to pass the budget reso lution, some members o f the Sen ate lead ership agreed 
not to s upport a tax  cut abov e $350 billion  in the con ference report. 
II-34

II-35
With the end of the 2003 fiscal y ear now just two months away  (the end of J une 
for most g overnments), mor e than half the states are still wor king to close 
shortfalls in their g eneral funds budg ets. In the past few y ears, most budg et-
balancing  strateg ies have  centered on reductions in  planned spending  and 
increased borrowing , both from the market  and from a variety  of reserve funds. 
While  legislatures are again like ly to utilize  these measures heavily, mor e 
governments are now also looking  for ways to raise revenues. Roug hly 
forty states and some  large cities have either already increased or are 
conside ring raising  taxes or fees. The mayor of New York City , for ex ample, is 
pushing  to reinsta te a city commute r tax, whic h would r aise $1 billion in f iscal 
2004.12 Give n the  lateness in the  year, many revenue actions will not ta ke effect 
until fiscal 2004. 
Prices 
A sharp run-up in energ y prices in th e first quarter pushed up overall consumer 
price inflation. Over the twelve months ending  in March, the CPI  rose 
3 percent, up from about 1-1/2 percent during  the comparable period one y ear 
earlier, while the PCE chain-ty pe pri ce index  increased 2.4 percent, up from 
about 1 percent a y ear earlier. However, spot prices for crude oil have fallen by 
roughly one-fourth since the last Greenbook, and survey  data throug h late April 
suggest that retail gasoline pri ces have al ready  retraced part  of their earl ier 
jump. 
Meanwhile, core inflation, which was al ready  quite low, moved down further in 
the first quarter and––in lig ht of the bi as that is likely  affecting  the various 
published measures––is beg inning  to approach the upper bound of the rang e of 
values that could be viewed as consiste nt with z ero actual inflation. The CPI 
excluding  food and energ y was about flat in March and increased just 
1.7 percent from a y ear earlier, compared with an increase of 2.4 percent in the 
precedi ng year. The very  low readi ngs in recent  months likely reflect som e 
transitor y factors.13 Howe ver, the latest twe lve-month chang e in the core C PI is 
only 3/4 percentag e point above our point estimate of the bias in this measure 
and only  about 1/4 percentag e point a bove the upper bound of our rang e of bias 
estimates. Over the twelve months e nding  in Ma rch, core CPI commodity 
prices have fallen 1.4 percent,  a slig htly larger decline than in the previous y ear. 
Core servi ces inflation cam e in at 3 percent over the y ear ending  in March, 
down 0.9 percentag e point from the y ear earlier period, larg ely reflecting 
smaller increases in residential rent. 
12. A t 2.7 percen t, this propos ed com muter tax would be qu ite a bit larger than the 
0.5 percen t com muter tax that New York City abol ished in the late 1990s . 
13. In particular , the r ecent CP I estim ates includ ed unusually  weak p rices f or erratic 
components like tobacco, lodg ing away from home, teleph one services, and motor vehicles, and 
we would expect a portion  of these declin es to be reversed in the coming m onths. 
II-36
II-37
Core PCE prices rose 0.1 percent in March and 1.5 percent from a y ear earlier, 
the sam e pace as i n the precedi ng year. The absence of any  decel eration in the 
PCE measure of inflation mainly  reflects a sharp pickup in the prices of PCE 
items for whic h no ma rket-based prices exist.14 The market-based component of 
the core P CE price index  has decelerat ed 0.4 percentag e point over the past 
year, to 0.9 percent. We estimate the bi as in core PCE price inflation to be 
about 1/2 percentag e point; because th e PCE is a chain-weig hted index , its 
estimated bia s is slig htly smaller than tha t of the CPI. The core portion of  the 
chained CPI , which also uses a superla tive aggregation f ormula intended to ta ke 
into account substitution by  consumers in response to chang es in relative prices, 
rose 1.2 percent over the twelve months  ending  in March, a deceleration of 
0.6 percentag e point from the preceding  year. 
Consum er energ y prices surg ed in March, but  survey  evidence i ndicates that the 
sharp drop in the spot price of W est Texas inte rmediate crude oil a fter 
mid- March has caused gasoline  and he ating oil pr ices to tur n down in Apr il— 
the first step toward what will, in a ll likelihood, be a sust ained downward move. 
Natural g as prices have held in a na rrow rang e since mid-March, following  the 
unwinding  of F ebruary ’s dramatic spik e. Looking  ahead, althoug h inventories 
of crude oil and natural g as are currently quite  low, f utures prices suggest tha t 
traders are anticipating a recovery in supplie s ove r coming  months. 
Consumer prices for food, as measured by  the CPI , edg ed up 0.2 percent in 
March, following  a larg er February  rise that reflected upward pressure on prices 
for livestock and some fats and oils. The CPI  for food away  from home, which 
accounts for roug hly two-fifths of all f ood ex penditures, came in at about the 
past y ear’s averag e monthly  rate of 0.2 percent, after swing ing widely  in 
January  and F ebruary . Over the twel ve months ending  in March, consumer 
prices for food increased 1.4 percent, a deceleration of about 1 percentag e point 
from  the previ ous y ear’s pace. 
Prices for capi tal equi pment, as m easur ed in the producer price index , rose 
0.8 percent in March, following  a declin e of 0.4 percent in F ebruary . These 
prices have fl uctuated in recent  months wi th the subst antial movem ents in prices 
for cars and lig ht trucks associated w ith inc entive s. For the twelve months 
ending  in March, prices for capital equi pment increased 0.4 percent, a pickup of 
1/2 percent age point from  the precedi ng twelve m onths. 
14. T he nonmarket com ponent of PCE prices  increas ed 3.9 percen t in the twelve months 
ending in March , up from 2.0 percen t in the year-earlier period. Imputed service ch arges at 
financial in stitutions and prices f or trav el abroad acco unted for much of this acceleratio n. 
II-38
II-39
II-40
II-41
II-42
II-43
Reflecting the jump in e nergy prices and rising  import prices, prices at earlier 
stages of processing  have been moving  up sig nificantly . The PPI  for 
intermediate materials rose 2 pe rcent in March and 8 percent over the past 
twelve m onths, aft er a decl ine of 3-1/ 2 percent  over t he precedi ng year. A 
smaller, but still pronounced, upswing  is evident in the PPI  for intermediate 
materials ex cluding  food and energ y, which includes energ y-intensive items 
such as plastic, resins, nitrog enates, a nd industrial chemicals. The PPI  for core 
crude m aterials has al so risen sharpl y in recent  months, wi th the March readi ng 
15 percent above its level a y ear ag o. 
More recent ly, broad-based spot  com modity index es, whi ch had al so m oved up 
consi derabl y early in the year, have  retreated somewhat. The J ournal of 
Commerce industrial price index , whic h has a larg e energ y component, rose 
almost 6 percent in the first couple of months of 2003, but in the last several 
weeks it has retraced about half of that bulge. Prices of i ndustrial metals have 
also turned down of late, with the J ournal of Commerce i ndex  of metal prices 
down about 2-1/2 percent since early  March. In addition, the Commodity 
Research B ureau’s index  of futures pr ices, whic h is he avily weighted towa rd 
agricultural commodities, is down c onsiderably  since the last Greenbook. 
Turning  to broader measures of infla tion, the chain-ty pe price index  for GDP 
rose 1.6 percent over the four quarter s ending  in 2003:Q1, up 0.2 percentag e 
point from the previous y ear. Excluding  food and energ y, GDP price inflation 
was unchang ed at 1.5 percent. 
Near-term inflation ex pectations from the Michig an survey  drifted above 
3 percent in Ma rch, like ly reflecting the run-up in energ y prices. In April, 
however, t he m edian ex pected inflation ra te for the nex t year was back down to 
2.4 percent, in line with reading s from 2002. In contrast, long er-term inflation 
expectations have been unaffect ed by  the energ y price swi ngs; the Apri l readi ng 
on median ex pectations of inflation over the nex t five to ten y ears was 
2.7 percent, little different from the ty pical reading  over the past y ear. 
Labor  Costs 
The employ ment cost index  of hourly  compensation for private industry  workers 
increased at an annual rate of 5.5 pe rcent over the three months ending  in 
March, t he largest quart erly increase i n three y ears. The wag es and sal aries 
component rose 4.1 percent, while benefit costs moved up 10 percent. 
Howe ver, the first-quarter jump in c ompensation costs followed two quarters of 
much sm aller increases, and over t he twelve months ending  in March, the 
overall ECI  for compensation rose 3.8 per cent, a shade less than the increase 
posted over t he precedi ng year. 
II-44
II-45

II-46

II-47
The wag e and salaries component of the ECI  rose 3 percent over the twelve 
months ending  in March, about 1/2 percentag e point less than over the 
precedi ng year. There was a si zable accel eration in the wag es of workers i n the 
financial industry , likely related, at least in part, to a surg e in commissions 
associ ated wi th the spat e of m ortgage refinanci ngs that has occurred i n recent 
quarters. Many  other industries saw a d eceleration in wag es over the past y ear, 
with the  sizable increases in wa ge costs in the  first qua rter only  partly offsetting 
unusually  small increases  late last y ear. 
In contrast, benefit costs accelerated a bout 1-1/4 percentag e points over the y ear 
ending  in March, and th e latest twelve-month chang e now stands above 
6 percent.15 Employ ers’ health insurance cost s rose nearly  10 percent, about the 
same pace as in the prior y ear; in a ddition, costs for workers’ compensation, 
which general ly follow heal th insurance cost s with a lag, have accel erated 
noticeably . Among  the other compone nts of benefits, costs for state 
unemploy ment insurance have risen shar ply as a result of hig her employ er 
premiums associated with increased unemploy ment claims. In addition, a 
significant increase i n em ployer cont ributions to defined be nefit retirement 
plans in response to declines in the mark et value of the assets held by  these 
plans has pushed up this component of  labor costs markedly . Nonproduction 
bonuses have also turned up in the last  two quarters, after falling  over much of 
2002. 
Four-quarter chang es in compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector, 
whic h ran we ll below the  ECI for most of last y ear, appear to have come back 
roughly into line with the ECI  measure late in 2002 and early  this y ear. Official 
figures for the first qua rter will be  released on Ma y 1, but we  currently estimate 
that compensation per hour increased at  an annual rate of 3.4 percent last 
quarter. The May 1 release will a lso inc orporate revisions to c ompe nsation in 
the third and fourth quarter s of last y ear, based on unemploy ment insur ance tax 
records tha t are more compr ehensive  (but muc h less time ly) than the  average 
hourly  earning s figures used by  the B EA in forming  its initial compensation 
estimates.16 We currently estimate that the four-quarter change in compe nsation 
per hour throug h the first quarter of this y ear was about 3-1/4 percent. 
15. With the exception of health  insurance, d etail o n benefit costs are u npublished and are 
provided by the BLS on a co nfidential b asis. 
16. T he unemployment insurance data are m ore com prehensive than the average hourly 
earnings data becau se they cover a broader ran ge of workers, they cover alm ost all n onfarm 
establis hments, and they include altern ative forms of com pensation such as bonuses and stock 
options. 
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
Dom estic Financial Developm ents
Overview 
The prog ress in I raq, in ta ndem with f avorable earnings news, has contributed to 
a rise in stock prices and a further narrowi ng of corporat e risk spreads si nce t he 
March Greenbook. Easing  of geopolitical tensions also seemed to push up 
Treasury yields as safe-haven demand diminishe d, but this e ffect was offset by 
incoming  economic  data that were somewhat weaker than investors had 
expected, and on ba lance, Treasury yields we re little  changed ove r the 
intermeeting  period. Judging from future s quotes, investors have marked down 
the ex pected path of the federa l funds rate from late 2003 forward. 
Borrowing  by nonfinancial firms remain ed tepid in March and April. In 
contrast, household debt g rowth, booste d by mortg age borrowing , again was 
brisk, and m unicipal borrowi ng remained st rong. After reachi ng the statutory 
federal debt ceiling in February, the Treasury has continue d to ma ke room f or 
scheduled debt auctions by  using  “extraordinary ” measures, but these have had 
no discernible impact on Treasury  markets. 
Policy Expectati ons and Interest Rates 
Investors had placed only  modest odds on a policy  easing  at the March meeting , 
so there was m uted market react ion to the FOMC ’s deci sion to leave t he target 
federal funds rate unchang ed. During  the intermeeting  period, ex pectations for 
a near-term policy  easing  declined with the resolution of uncertainty  about the 
conflict in I raq. Based on federal funds futures quotes , market participants now 
place only  about one-in-four odds on a 25-basis-point easing  at the May 
meeting , but they  have also marked down the funds rates they  expect to prevail 
late this y ear and bey ond, apparently  in response to releases of weaker-than-
anticipated economic  data. The reduction in g eopolitic al risks is e vident from 
measures of near-t erm policy uncert ainty derived from options prices; these 
implie d vola tilitie s are now a t the lowe r end of  histor ical ranges. 
Over the intermeeting  period, y ields on nominal Treasury  coupon securities rose 
with coalition military  advances but  generally  fell in response to 
macroeconom ic data releases . On balance, y ields on two-y ear notes fell 2 basis 
points, while those on ten-y ear notes a nd thirty -year bonds rose 9 and 4 basis 
points, respectively . 
Market-based inflation ex pectations fell a bit, perhaps in response to declines in 
oil pr ices. Yields on f ive-and te n-year TIIS increased a little  more than yields 
on compa rable nomina l Treasury securities, imply ing a decrease in inf lation 
compensation. At the same time, median l ong-term inflation ex pectations in the 
Michig an survey  were, on net, unc hang ed in the past two months. 
III-2
III-3
Stock Prices an d Corp orate In terest Rates 
The success of coalition f orces in Iraq, along with e arnings reports tha t mostly 
exceeded—som e by wide m argins—m odest  expectations, l eft broad equi ty price 
index es up 6-1/2 percent, on net, over the intermeeting  period. These g ains 
came on t he heel s of a sharp ri se in stock pri ces as t he com mencem ent of the 
war approached (just prior to the Ma rch F OMC meeting ), and broad equity 
index es are now 14 percent above their levels at the close of the March 
Greenbook. Share-price g ains over th e intermeeting  period were fairly 
widespread across sectors, thoug h financial companies outperformed other 
industry  groups. The unwinding  of war-related uncerta inty and positive 
earnings news evidently drove down ne ar-term expected stoc k-price vola tility. 
A measure of t he equi ty prem ium—the spread bet ween t he twelve-m onth 
forward earning s-price ratio and the r eal ten-y ear Treasury  yield—narrowed a 
bit in Apr il but r emains quite  high. 
Yield spreads on investment-g rade bonds narrowed moderately  over the 
intermeeting  period. Spreads on specu lative-g rade bonds plung ed more than 
100 basis points, bring ing the cumulative drop since last fall to about 400 basis 
points. Large inflows to junk bond mutual funds in the past two months indicate 
a renewed appetite for these assets. Despite  the declines in inve stme nt-and 
specul ative-grade y ields, corporat e risk spreads rem ain som ewhat  elevated. 
Risk spr eads on c omme rcial paper remained low ove r the intermeeting period, 
as firms continued to improve their ba lance-sheet liquidity  by substituting  bonds 
for commercial paper. The spread of yields on thirty -day A2/P2 paper over 
those for A1/P1 issues aver aged about 20 basis points, near the bottom of the 
range observed over the past several y ears. 
Busine ss Financ e 
Gross bond issuance by  nonfinancial corpor ations was solid in  March and April, 
as low rat es cont inued t o attract firms to the m arket. Specul ative-grade i ssuance 
was conside rable in both months. Still, ne t debt financing has been we ak ove r 
this period, with corporate bond retirements and net pay downs of commercial 
paper and C& I loans almost  completely  offsetting  gross bond issuance. The 
April Senior L oan Officer survey  indicated that once ag ain, demand for C& I 
loans sl ackened i n the m ost recent  three m onths. Meanwhi le, there was a 
noticeabl e decl ine in the fract ion of dom estic banks report ing tightened l ending 
standards and terms. 
Gross public equity  issuance by  nonfinancial corporations weakened further in 
March and April from its alr eady anemic pace, and there still have not been any 
nonfinancial I POs this y ear. Proceed s from seasoned equity  offering s, about 
half of which continue to  be made by  energ y companies, in many  cases have 
been 
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
used to pa y down de bt. Equity  retirements in the  first qua rter are estimated to 
have been j ust a bit below their pace i n the past  two years, and net  equi ty 
issua nce evidently remained negative. 
Corporate Earnings and Credit Quality 
With more than 300 companies in th e S& P 500 having  reported, earning s per 
share in the first quarter is estimated to  have increased about 12 percent from a 
year earlier, althoug h the three larg est oil companies accounted for about half of 
the ag gregate growth. Earni ngs for se veral sectors—partic ularly  financial, 
utilities, and consumer dur ables—have g enerally  exceeded ex pectations by 
wider-than-usual marg ins. Many  compan ies reported that pr ofits g rowth was 
achieved through cost-cutting  rather than inc reased sales. Moreover, several 
special factors boosted corporate bottom lin es in the first quarter; for ex ample, 
utilities benefited from an unus ually  cold winter, and the depreciation of the 
dolla r augmented the  profits of  multina tiona l corporations. 
Judging from chang es in bond rating s, corporate credit quality  deteriorated 
again in the first quart er, but  the pace of net  downg rades cont inued t o moderat e, 
and some  othe r measures of credit qua lity showe d mode st impr ovement. The 
bond default rate, measured as a six -month moving  averag e, moved down 
further in March, thoug h it remains at an  elevated level, and the four-quarter 
moving  averag e of recovery  rates on defaulted bonds conti nued to improve in 
the first qua rter. KMV’ s year-ahead expected default pr obability  edged down in 
March, althoug h it too remains at a hig h level. Rising  share prices and falling 
implie d sha re-price vola tilitie s in Apr il pointe d to f urther impr ovements in this 
measure. 
Com mercial Real  Estate 
Comme rcial mor tgage debt growth and g ross CMB S issuance appear to have 
slowed i n the first quart er from  elevated rates in the fourth quarter, but the pace 
of CMBS issuance pi cked up i n earl y Apri l. Despi te rising vacancy  rates in 
some property  sectors, delinquency  rates on commercial mortg ages and CMB S 
have remained low, in part because —according  to respondents to the April 
Senior Loan Officer Survey—falling interest rates have reduced bor rowers’ 
debt-servicing  costs. In addition, re spondents noted that borrowers still have 
conside rable equity  in the ir properties and thus have strong  incentives to 
continue interest pay ments. Concerns  about credit quality  of CMB S evidently 
remain subdued, with spreads on inves tment- and speculative-g rade CMB S over 
swaps stay ing in the lower halves of th e rang es observed over the past couple of 
years. 
House hold F inanc e 
Household debt is estimated to have g rown at an annua l rate of 9-1/2 percent in 
the first quarter—about the same pace as last y ear. With mortg age rates near 
III-8
III-9
historical lows, refi nanci ngs reached record l evels last quart er, and m ortgage 
debt g rew 12-1/4 percent at an annual ra te. Refinancing  activity  is on track to 
set another record this quarter. Consumer credit ex panded at roug hly a 4 
percent annual rate in the first quarter , similar to the averag e pace last y ear. 
The credit quality  of the household sector  appears to have remained g enerally 
stable throug h the first quarter. Althoug h household debt has continued to 
outpace di sposabl e incom e, the ong oing shift toward m ortgage debt —whi ch has 
reduced the averag e interest rate on household debt and stre tched out repay ment 
obligations—has kept  the debt -servi ce bur den roug hly flat in recent  quart ers. 
Delinquency  rates on auto loans and cred it cards ticked down early  this y ear, 
and respondents to the April Senior L oan Officer Survey  continue to report only 
modest net tig htening  of terms and sta ndards on household loans. However, a 
rise in household bankruptcy  filing  rates since the last F OMC meeting  may 
indicate that a small but g rowing  num ber of households are suffering  from 
financial stress. 
The rise in stoc k prices in Apr il has like ly reversed the  slight de cline in the  ratio 
of household assets to dispos able income posted in the first quarter. Positive net 
flows to equity  mutual funds starting  in late March, along  with  hefty  net inflows 
to junk bond funds, indicate that investor s have become more willing  to hold 
riskier assets. 
State and Loc al Government Financ e 
Gross issuance of long -term municipa l bonds continued at a robust pace in 
March and Apr il, as munic ipalities continue d to ta p the  market for education-
and transpor tation- related capital spending . Despite con tinuing  fiscal pressures, 
the credit quality  of municipal bonds showed  hints of some stabiliz ation, as the 
number of municipal bonds upg raded by  S&P this y ear has a lmost matched the 
number downg raded. The downg rades in March of municipal bonds backed by 
payments from tobacco companies (pursu ant to the 1998 settlement with state 
governments) after an Illinois c ourt ruled against Philip Mor ris apparently 
caused investors to reassess the ability of tobacco companies to make future 
payments. Yield spreads on these bonds rose, on balance, and several states 
have postponed planned o ffering s of new tobacco-backed securities. More 
broadl y, the yield spread on BBB- relative to AAA-rat ed revenue bonds 
declined a bit dur ing the intermeeting period but r emained hig h relative to le vels 
observed over the past few y ears. 
Treasu ry Finance 
The Treasury  has continued to employ “extraordinary” financing measures to 
cope with the debt ceiling , which was reached on F ebruary  20. However, 
market participants have becom e quite accust omed to the use of such m easures, 
and the 
III-10
III-11
III-12

III-13
recent actions seem to ha ve elicited no market res ponse. The Treasury  has 
announced that, throug h the manipulation of three federal tr ust funds, it will be 
able to proceed with its May  15 mid-qua rter refunding  of $55 billion, but that it 
may well run out of ma neuvering  room in the second half of May . The Treasury 
also announced that, provided that the st atutory  debt ceiling is raised, it will be 
increasing  the frequency  and siz e of its pub lic debt auctions of both nominal and 
inflation-index ed coupon securities. 
Money and Bank C redit 
M2 g rowth in the past two months was he ld down by  tax-related effects. Due to 
the increased use of electronic filing , the annual boost to M2 from tax  refunds 
came earl ier than usual  this year, i n February , and reduced seasonally  adjusted 
growth in subsequent months. A weaker-than-averag e buildup of liquid 
deposits in advance of April 15 tax  payments also held down money  growth. In 
addition, resumption of net inflows to e quity  mutual funds in the past two 
months may  have siphoned funds from M2. 
Growth in bank credit also stepped down in the past two months from its very 
rapid pace in F ebruary , as banks slowed  their acquisition of securities. Bank 
loans continued to g row at a modera te pace throug h April: A slowdown in 
consumer lending  was offset by  more r obust g rowth in real estate loans and a 
smaller contraction in busine ss loa ns in Apr il. 
Bank holding  companies reported that firs t-quarter earning s grew modestly  from 
a year ag o, apparently  as streng th in noninterest income, in part from mortg age 
refinancing s, was offset by  declines in  net inte rest ma rgins. Many firms 
described the  credit qua lity of their loans as having impr oved slig htly, and loss 
provisioning  decreased, but some firms expressed concerns about a possible 
decline in the  quality of their credit card loa ns. 
III-14
III-15
Appe ndix 
April 2003 Senior Loan Of ficer Opinion Survey 
The April 2003 Se nior Loan Officer Opinion Sur vey on Bank Lending Practices 
focused on changes in the supply of and de mand for bank loans to businesses and 
households over th e past three m onths. In addition, the survey contained two sets of 
supplem entary  questions that fo cused on the reas ons for recent chang es in the credit 
quality of business an d com mercial real estate loan s, as well as ch anges in  lending 
terms for commercial real estate loan s. Responses were received  from fifty -four 
domestic an d eigh teen foreign  banking institutions. 
On ne t, both foreign and do mestic banks continued to report that they had tightened 
business len ding conditions in the April su rvey. However,  the fraction s of domestic 
banks that tigh tened lending standards and terms on  C&I loan s declin ed noticeab ly. On 
the household side, the fraction s of banks that tigh tened standards on cred it card s and 
other con sumer loan s remain ed mod est and with in the narrow ran ge of recen t surveys. 
Banks rep orted that demand for almost all ty pes of loan s weaken ed, on net, over th e 
past three m onths, with  increased  demand for resid ential m ortgages th e lon e exception. 
Lending to Businesses 
Only six domestic banks tightened lending standards to large and m iddle-market firms 
in April, and one bank reported that it had eased lending standards to those firms in the 
most recen t survey. This rep resents a sign ifican t differen ce from th e January survey, 
when about 20 pe rcent of domestic banks reported having tightened standards on C&I 
loans to larger firms, and three of the banks that had tightened lending standards 
classified  the tigh tening as con siderable. Indeed, the net percentage of b anks rep orting 
tighter lending standards for large and m iddle-market firms in April, 9 pe rcent, was the 
lowest percentage since the November 1999 s urvey. 
Furthermore,  the net fraction  of domestic b anks that rep orted increasin g spreads on 
loans to larger b orrowers fell from  27 percent in January to 15 percent in April. 
Moreover, the num ber of banks that reported reducing those spreads rose to seven in 
April from  only two in  the previou s survey. The net fraction  of domestic b anks that 
stren gthened loan  coven ants also fell,  to 17 percent in April from  27 percent in January. 
The net shares of b anks that rep orted tightening oth er loan  terms remain ed about 
unchanged from the previous survey, including the percentage of banks that reported 
increasing premiums on riskier loans, which stayed at around 40 pe rcent. 
In April, the percentage of d omestic b anks that rep orted tightening stan dards for sm all 
firms remain ed with in its recen t range, at 13 percent. The percentages of b anks 
tightening term s on loan s to sm all firm s, which have been notably lower th an those for 
large and m iddle-market firms, moved down somewhat further. Indeed, almost equal 
fraction s of banks lowered  the cost of cred it lines for sm all firm s as raised  them, and the 
net fraction  of banks that increased  spreads on these loan s fell from 1 6 percent in 
January to 12 percent in April. In addition, the net fraction  of banks that increased 
premiums charged  on riskier loan s to sm all firm s fell from  35 percent in January to 
19 percent in April. 
III-A -2
A less favorab le econ omic ou tlook was cited  by all b ut one of th e domestic b anks that 
had tightened standards or terms as at least a somewh at imp ortant reason  for d oing so. 
Large m ajorities of th ose b anks also con tinued to cite a red uced toleran ce for risk an d 
worsening indus try-specific problems as important reasons for the change. All nine of 
the banks that reported having eased standards or terms said they had done so in 
response to in creased  com petition  from  other banks or n onbank lenders, which is 
consisten t with  a record  amount of in stitutional particip ation  in the syndicated  loan 
market during  the first qua rter of 2003. One bank that eased lending  conditio ns 
indicated  that a more favorab le econ omic ou tlook h ad played a role in  its d ecision . 
The fraction  of U .S. branches an d agen cies of foreign  banks that tigh tened standards 
and terms on C&I loans, which had been trending down since last Aug ust, was 
unchanged from J anuary at ab out 30 percent in the current survey. The fraction  of 
foreign ins titutio ns that increased spreads on all loans over their cost of funds  was also 
stead y, at just below 5 0 percent for th e secon d consecutive su rvey. The fraction s of 
branches an d agen cies th at tigh tened most oth er terms ed ged down, except for th e 
fraction  that boosted  premiums on loan s to riskier cu stom ers, which rose to m ore than 
50 percent in April from  about 40 percent in January. Foreign  institutions that 
tightened standards or terms gen erally cited  a less favorab le econ omic ou tlook as th e 
most im portant reason  for tigh tening. 
The net fraction s of domestic b anks rep orting weaker d emand rose in  April. About 
40 pe rcent of domestic banks reported weaker demand for loans from large and 
medium-size firms over the past three months, and no  bank reported increased demand 
from th ose cu stomers.  For small firms,  the net percentage of b anks rep orting weaker 
demand remained at 21 pe rcent, with only three banks reporting increased demand. 
The net share of b ranches an d agen cies of foreign  banks rep orting weaker d emand more 
than doubled to 44 pe rcent in April from 20 pe rcent in January. 
As in previou s surveys, almost all d omestic b anks that ex perienced weaker loan  demand 
reported that a d eclin e in customers’  need for b ank loan s to fin ance cap ital ex penditures 
was at least a somewh at imp ortant reason , and reduced needs to fin ance in ventories was 
the secon d most cited  reason . Large fraction s of domestic b anks also b lamed  reduced 
merger an d acquisition  business an d reduced need to fin ance accou nts receivab le for 
weaker d emand. The most freq uently cited  reason s for weaker loan  demand at branches 
and agen cies of foreign  banks con tinued to be a declin e in merger an d acquisition 
activity and reduced customer investment in plant and equipment. 
Credit Qual ity of Business Loans . Over the past several quarters, delinque ncy rates 
on C&I loan s at com mercial b anks have leveled  off, while ch arge- off rates h ave 
remained very high. Almost all of the domestic banks indicated that delinque ncy rates 
had stabilized  because red uced interest rates h ave allowed  borrowers to lower th eir 
debt-servicing costs by refinancing loans and restructuring their balance sheets. 
Foreign  banking institutions also p ointed to refin ancing at lower in terest rates,  but 
reported that a reduction in indus try-specific problems had played a somewhat greater 
role, on net, in s tabilizing their delinque ncy rates. Both do mestic and fo reign banks 
also cred ited the aggressive tigh tening of len ding standards over th e past several y ears 
for reducing the incidence of new problem loans. Large fractions of banks reported a 
III-A -3
variety of reasons for elevated charge-off rates, including unus ually low recovery rates 
on delinque nt loans and their own aggressiveness in dealing with problem credits. 
Commercia l real esta te len ding. The net fraction of domestic banks that reported 
tightening stan dards on com mercial real estate loan s over th e past three m onths was 
19 percent in April–well with in its recen t range. Two of ten  foreign  institutions 
reported tightening stan dards for th ese loan s in the current survey, up from zero in  the 
January survey. Demand for th ese loan s con tinued to weaken  at domestic b anks, where 
the net share of banks reporting weaker demand edged up f rom 21 pe rcent in January to 
30 percent in April. On net, demand at foreign  institutions was u nchanged. 
Notable fractions of domestic and foreign banks indicated that over the past year they 
had tightened variou s lending term s associated  with  com mercial real estate loan s; 
however,  the fraction s were gen erally lower th an they were wh en the sam e question s 
were asked in January 2002. For instance, about 25 pe rcent of domestic banks reported 
that they had raised  loan -to-value ratios over th e past twelve m onths, down from  almost 
50 percent in the year-earlier su rvey. As they did for C &I loan s, banks most common ly 
cited  concern about the econ omy as a reason  for tigh tening terms,  and also sp ecifically 
pointed to th e con dition of th e com mercial real estate sector.  Among the eleven 
domestic b anks that had eased  com mercial real estate len ding term s during the past 
year, almost all cited  more aggressive com petition  from  other com mercial b anks as th e 
reason  for d oing so,  and a majority also rep orted increased  com petition  from  nonbank 
lenders. 
Despite risin g vacan cy rates an d fallin g ren ts for commercial office sp ace over th e past 
several years, the delinque ncy rate on commercial real estate loans at banks declined 
steadily during 2002. Most banks reported that the majority of their commercial real 
estate loan s did not con tain prepayment penalties,  and therefore b orrowers h ad been 
able to avoid delinque ncies by refinancing their loans at lower interest rates to reduce 
their debt-servicin g costs.  Banks also in dicated  that many borrowers still h ave 
considerable eq uity in their properties,  which maintains the incentive for th em to 
continue payments. Some foreign  and domestic in stitutions also rep orted that lon g-term 
leases th at had insulated  property own ers from  declin ing ren ts were a very  important 
reason  for th e good  performan ce of commercial real estate loan s. 
Lending to Hous eholds 
Only 6 pe rcent of domestic banks reported that they had tightened standards on 
resid ential m ortgage loan s in the April su rvey, down from  about 10 percent in both the 
January and the October surveys. The net fraction of respondents that reported stronger 
demand for mortgages to purchase homes over the past three months edged up t o 
17 percent in April from  8 percent in January but remains well b elow th e levels th at 
prevailed in 2002. 
The shares of b anks that rep orted tightening stan dards for cred it card s and other 
consumer loan s remain ed with in their narrow ran ges of th e past two y ears at 1 0 percent 
and 13 pe rcent, respectively. Abo ut 10 pe rcent of banks, on net, indicated that they had 
increased  the min imum cred it score req uired for b oth cred it card  and other con sumer 
loans. Larger p ercentages of b anks rep orted that they had reduced the extent to wh ich 
III-A -4
loans were gran ted to cu stomers th at did not meet th ose th resholds, especially  for n on-
credit-card consumer loan s. By contrast, banks red uced, on net, the spread of loan  rates 
over their cost of funds  for both credit card and other types of consumer loans, and a 
few also ex tended the maximum maturity for in stallm ent loan s. About 4 percent of 
banks, on net, reported that demand for consumer loans was somewhat weaker. 
III-A -5
III-A -6
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S.  International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The U.S. international trade defic it was $40.3 billion in February, $0.9 billion
smaller than in January as exports of goods and services inched up and imports
edged down.  For January-February at  an annual rate, the deficit was
$489 billion, $8 billion larger than the fourth quarter.
Exports of goods and services rose only ma rginally (0.5 percent) in February as a
sharp rise in the value of exported aircraft and a small increase in exportedmachinery were largely offset by dec lines in the value of consumer goods
(particularly pharmaceuticals), computers, and services receipts.  ForJanuary-February at an annual rate, the le vel of exported goods and services was
0.5 percent higher than in the fourth qua rter.  Strong increases in the value of
exported industrial supplie s and smaller rises in agricultural products and
services were partly offset by a drop in  exported capital goods (partly aircraft but
largely machinery).  In the first quarter, NIPA real exports of goods and services
decreased slightly, a second consecutive quarterly decline.
Imports of goods and services declined s lightly in February (0.4 percent) as a
rise in the value of imported oil and na tural gas was outweighed by declines in
most other trade categories, particul arly computers and services.  For
January-February at an annual rate, the value of imports was 0.9 percent higher
than in the fourth quarter, boosted by in creases in oil (entirely due to higher
prices), computers, and services.  The value of imported semiconductors and
core goods declined slightly.  Within co re goods, a sharp rise in the value of 
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
natural gas (all price) and smaller increases in machin ery and foods were offset
by declines in the value of other imported goods (particularly automotive
products and other industrial supplies).  A small increase in value combined with
a large increase in price pushed down the estimated quantity of NIPA importsmore than 7 percent a.r.
Prices of Internatio nally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In March, the price of impor ted non-oil goods and the price of
imported core goods jumped 0.9 and 1.1 pe rcent, respectively.  Within core
goods, the largest price movement was an  increase of 5.0 percent (not an annual
rate) in the price for non-oil industria l supplies, prompted by exceptionally 
higher prices for natural gas and by hi gher prices for woodpulp and chemicals. 
Prices for foods, feeds, and beverages ro se 1.3 percent.  Prices in other major
categories changed little.  For the first quarter, prices of imported core goods
were up 5½ percent at an annual rate, the highest ra te of increase since the
second quarter of 1995.
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil fell 1.8 percent in March after rising a
revised 11.1 percent in February.  The s pot price of West Texas Intermediate
(WTI) crude oil also fell in March, averaging about $33.50 per barrel, down
more than $2 per barrel from its February average.  In mid-March, the spot price
of WTI fell rapidly with the unwinding  of geopolitical uncertainty surrounding
Iraq.  Recent increases in OPEC oil pr oduction, particularly by Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait, and Venezuela, also helped put  downward pressure on oil prices.  Spot
WTI closed on April 29 at $25.23 per barre l.  However, reduced oil supplies
from Nigeria, owing to civil unrest, and increased oil demand in Japan, resultingfrom the shutdown of nuclear reactors, are keeping some upward pressure on oilprices.
Exports.   In March, the price of exported to tal goods and the price of exported
core goods increased 0.3 and 0.5 percent, respectively.  Within core goods, the
largest price movement was an increase of  1.5 percent in the price of industrial
supplies, driven largely by higher pri ces for fuel oil, woodpulp, and chemicals. 
Prices in other major categories remain ed unchanged.  For the first quarter,
prices of exported core goods were up 4½ percent at an annual rate, more than
double the rate of growth registered in  the fourth quarter of last year. 
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
Treasury data recorded a $22 billion increas e in foreign official assets in the
United States in February (line 1 of  the Summary of U.S. International
Transactions table).  These inflows were  widespread and largest for Japan ($6
billion), Russia ($5 billion), and China ( $4 billion).  The increase in Japan’s
reserves was associated with intervention activity, while the rise for Russia’s
IV-6
likely reflected earnings from higher oil pr ices.  Official inflows may have been
even larger than those recorded by th e Treasury system:  February data from
custody accounts at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York show an additional
increase in Treasury bonds held for Chin a and Korea arising from transfers from
other custodians.  (Such transfers of long-term securities are not captured under
the Treasury system, and it is possibl e that when these bonds were initially
acquired, the Treasury system recorded them  as purchases by private foreigners,
rather than by the foreign official sect or.)  For March, the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York’s custody accounts show a rise of $16 billion,    
   . 
Foreign private net purchases of U.S. s ecurities (line 4) declined sharply to $5
billion in February from January’s $26 billion inflow.  In February, increasedforeign sales of Treasury securities (line 4a) in combination with sales of agency
issues (line 4b) significantly offset rela tively strong private foreign purchases of
corporate debt (line 4c) and modest fore ign purchases of U.S. equities (line 4d). 
Although there were continued purchases  of U.S. agency bonds and corporate
stock in the European and Asian mark ets, sales of those instruments were
recorded against the Caribbean cente rs.  The overall downward movement in
February is attributed to general market uncertainties and a decline in agencybond issuance.  Total new bond issuance, esp ecially that targeted to foreigners,
increased markedly in March.
In February, U.S. investors were small net sellers of foreign securities (line 5) as
U.S. sales of foreign bonds (line 5a) ex ceeded small net purchases of foreign
stocks (line 5b).  There were no acquis itions of foreign stock through stock
swaps in February (line 5c).  Howeve r, the recently completed acquisition of
Household International by British-based HSBC Holdings has a stock swapcomponent of $14 billion, which we expect  to see reflected in the data for
March.
Net capital flows through the banking sect or (line 3) amounted to an inflow of
$67 billion in February as contrasted w ith an outflow of $45 billion in January. 
The inflow in February was attributed primarily to interoffice activity betweenU.S. affiliates of foreign-based banks and their related foreign offices.
IV-7
IV-8
Foreign Exchange Markets
Price movements in global financial mark ets during the first four weeks of the
intermeeting period appeared to reflect  closely fluctuations in news about
developments in Iraq.  When major combat operations in Iraq concluded
following the fall of Baghdad, market participants shifted their attention to newsabout the direction of gl obal economic activity.  Si nce mid-March, prices of
assets that were viewed as safe havens have declined; the spot price of gold has
declined almost 1½ percent to $336 per ounce, and the exchange value of the
Swiss franc against the euro has declined 3 percent.
The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major currencies index,
declined 2¾ percent, with the dollar depr eciating against six of the seven foreign
currencies that are in the index; the exception was the yen.  The dollardepreciated on net during the first th ree weeks of the intermeeting period,
rebounded only moderately the following  week, and has once more trended
down since then.  Against the currencies of  our other important  trading partners,
the dollar depreciated about 2¾ percent.
The dollar declined 4¾ percent on balan ce against the euro.  The dollar moved
down about 3 percent against the Canadi an dollar.  On April 15, the Bank of
Canada raised its overnight interest rate 25 basis point s, as market participants
had expected, to 3.25 percent.  Against the pound, the dollar slid almost
IV-9
2 percent.  In contrast, the dollar appr eciated almost 1 percent against the yen
amid data releases that indicated a weaker state of  the Japanese economy than
market participants had expected.  At  its emergency meeting on March 25, the
Bank of Japan left its policy stance largely unchanged, disappointing market
participants.  At its meeting on Apr il 30, however, the BOJ unexpectedly raised
its target for current account balances of financial institu tions to ¥22-27 trillion,
from ¥17-22 trillion, citing “considerable uncertainty” about the outlook for
recovery in the United States and Eu rope, the possible impact of SARS, and
“unstable” stock prices.
During the first four weeks of the inte rmeeting period, market  participants were
apparently shifting asset allocations between bonds  and equities based primarily
on news about the developments in the Ir aqi conflict.  Reports that indicated a
quick resolution of the war led to simulta neous increases in equity prices and
bond yields, while reports that suggest ed a more prolonged conflict led to
simultaneous declines.  However, since th e second week of April, the tight link
between equity and bond market m ovements has ended, with bond yields
drifting lower and stock prices firming further.
Since the March FOMC meeting, major industrial economy e quity markets have
risen significantly, except in Japan, with the euro-area value-weighted equity
IV-10
index up about 8½ percent.  In addition to  the resolution of the conflict in Iraq,
positive news on corporate earnings announcements boosted European and
North American equity markets.  The Nikkei index of Japanese share prices
declined ½ percent on net.  This index briefly declined to a twenty-year low latein the period.  Market partic ipants attributed some of this decline to poor earning
announcements by several larg e Japanese corporations.
European government bond yields rose slightly on balance over the period, but
yields on Japanese government bonds move d lower.  Yields of 10-, 20-, and 30-
year JGBs declined to record lows  of 0.61 percent, 0.93 percent, and 1.02
percent, respectively.  Canadian long -term government debt yields declined
modestly over the period, and were pr essured lower after the World Health
Organization (WHO) added Toronto to  its SARS travel advisory list.
IV-11
The Brazilian real appreciated about 15 percent against the dollar over the
intermeeting period, and the spread over Treasury yields of Brazilian sovereign
debt, as measured by the Brazilian EM BI+ index, fell 230 basis points.  News
that Brazil’s primary surplus for 2002 came in well above 3.75 percent of
GDP–the IMF-agreed target –was well-received by markets.  In addition, market
participants reacted favorably to economic reform measures proposed by
President Lula.
Immediate reactions in Argentine fi nancial markets to the first round of
presidential elections on April 27 were mixed.  The Argentine peso appreciated
1 percent versus the dollar the following  day, but the Merval stock index fell
7 percent and Argentina’s EMBI+ spread ro se slightly.  On net, the Argentine
peso has appreciated about 7½ percen t against the dollar and Argentina’s
EMBI+ spread has declined more th an 1,500 basis points since the March
FOMC meeting.
Optimistic sentiment regarding the outcome of the conflict in Iraq and
encouraging corporate earnings announcemen ts also prompted emerging Asian
equity markets to rise.  However, during the last two weeks of the intermeetingperiod, news reports of the spread of SARS appeared to weigh on most Asian
equity markets.  Uncertainty about the sp read of the disease seemed to diminish
somewhat on April 28, when the WHO stat ed that the outbreak of SARS had
peaked in several countries, prompting Asian equity markets to rally.  Hong
Kong was particularly hard -hit, with equity prices dropping substantially before
recovering somewhat late in the inte rmeeting period; on net, the Hang Seng
index has declined about 1 percent.  In the latter part of th e intermeeting period,
Korean financial markets we re bolstered by news of  negotiations with North
Korea; the Korean equity market rose  about 16 percent over the intermeeting
period. The Korean won appreciated  2¾ percent against the dollar. 
           
 .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for theaccounts of the System or Treasury.
IV-12
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
Recent indicators suggest a continued sluggish pace of growth in most foreign
industrial nations.  In Japan, both consump tion and exports were flat in the early
months of the year.  In the euro ar ea, activity remained subdued, though data
suggest a slight bounceback from the weak  pace of late last year.  Business
confidence declined in the United King dom, and retail sale s and consumption
remained weak through April.  In Canada, growth of domestic demand was
relatively robust as employment conti nued to increase and the housing market
remained strong, although it appears growth slowed in the beginning of the year.
Twelve-month rates of consumer price in flation remained above the targets of
most major foreign central banks in th e first quarter, largely on account of high
energy prices.  However, in  Japan, deflation continued.
After easing early in the year, both th e European Central Bank (ECB) and the
Bank of England have recently left rates unchanged.  The Bank of Canada
enacted its second 25-basis-point increase of  the year in April, as concerns about
the country’s above-target inflation ra te outweighed worries about the weak
global economic environment.  On Apr il 30, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) voted to
ease monetary policy, increasing its targ et range for the outstanding balance of
reserve accounts held by private fi nancial institutions at the BOJ. 
In Japan , indicators suggest that economic ac tivity was about flat in the early
months of this year.  In the firs t quarter on average, worker household
expenditures were roughly unchanged fro m the fourth-quarter average, while
new car registrations rose modestly.  Bo th real exports and imports were about
flat in the first quarter.  Recent readings on business fixed investment have beenmixed.  Core machinery orders dropped n early 10 percent in February from the
previous month, but the average of Janua ry and February orders remained about
5 percent above the fourth-quarter aver age.  Non-residential building starts
declined markedly during the first quarter .  After expanding strongly in January,
industrial production fell in February and March, putting the average for the first
quarter only a bit above the fourth-quarter  average.  The broader all-industries
index of output fell 0.8 percent in Febr uary.  For January and February on
average, the index was 0.5 percent a bove the fourth-quarter average. 
Labor market conditions also appear to have stabilized. The unemployment rate
in March rose to 5.4 percent, a bit belo w the record-high 5.5 percent in January. 
The job-offers-to-applicants ratio, a l eading indicator of employment, edged
down to 0.60 in March.  Core consumer goods prices in the Tokyo area (which
exclude fresh food but include energy) fe ll marginally in Ap ril and were down
IV-13
0.4 percent from a year earlier.  Wholes ale prices for domestic goods fell 0.7
percent in March from a year earlier. 
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.
Industrial production12.0 .4 .2 1.6 -1.6 -.2 n.a.
All-industries index .3 -.3 n.a. 1.9 -.8 n.a. n.a.Housing starts -4.6 1.7 .7 6.8 -3.5 -4.8 n.a.Machinery orders
2-1.7 .3 n.a. 7.0 -9.6 n.a. n.a.
Machinery shipments31.3 2.3 .1 2.8 -2.6 -1.7 n.a.
New car registrations 4.2 -.9 1.7 3.5 .1 .6 n.a.Unemployment rate
45.4 5.4 5.4 5.5 5.2 5.4 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.54 .57 .60 .60 .61 .60 n.a.
Business sentiment6-30 -28 -26 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-.9 -.7 -.7 -.6 -.7 -.7 -.4
Wholesale prices7-2.0 -1.3 -.9 -1.0 -.9 -.7 n.a.
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
The Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey for Ma rch paints a mixed picture of business
confidence.  The closely watched diffusi on index for large manufacturers slipped
to -10 from -9 in December.  The index for large non-manufacturing firms
improved a bit, as did sentiment among small- and medium-sized manufacturingfirms.  For FY2003, firms are expecting an  increase in sales and profits, but are
planning a small cut in capital investment.
The Bank of Japan announced on April 30 a rise in its target range for the
outstanding balance of reserve accounts he ld by private financial institutions at
IV-14
the BOJ from ¥17 trillion-¥22 trillion to ¥22 trillion-¥27 trillion.  In addition, the
BOJ said it would accept bank loans to  the newly established Industrial
Revitalization Corporation as collateral in its money market operations.  In itsannouncement, the BOJ highlighted consid erable uncertainty about the outlook
for recovery in the United States and Europe, the possible impact of SARS, and
unstable stock prices.  Some observers noted that reserve balances have been
within the new range since mid-March (i.e ., they had been above the old range),
in part reflecting the entry of Japan Post  (a new public corpor ation established to
take over the services of the postal system) into the BOJ's settlement system onApril 1.  Japan Post has reportedly maintained ¥4 trillion in reserve balances,instead of the expected ¥2 trillion. 
The BOJ announced on April 8 that it will examine the possibility of buying
asset-backed securities.  In particular, the BOJ will consider outright purchases ofcommercial paper backed by the accounts receivables of sm all- and medium-
sized enterprises (SMEs).  The BOJ’s statement noted that the move "has theobjective to strengthen the effects of  monetary easing by nurturing the
development of the asset-backed securities market, thereby promoting smoothcorporate financing."  (The BOJ alread y obtains asset-back ed commercial paper
as collateral under repurchase agreements .)  On March 25, the BOJ announced an
increase in the total value of equity shares that it will purchase from banks, to¥3 trillion from the original ¥2 trillion. 
Production data for the euro area show a moderate rebound in January and
February from weakness late last year, but measures of business sentimentsuggest renewed weakness in March and April.  The January and February
average of industrial production rose 0.6 pe rcent over the fourth-quarter average. 
However, the quarterly comparison is h eavily influenced by a drop in production
in December and the subsequent rebound in January, a result of the timing of
end-of-year holidays.  Measures of business sentiment were mixed early in theyear, with most rebounding along with production, but sentiment  generally turned
down in March and declined further in Ap ril.  With many of the April survey
responses coming after the fall of Baghda d, weak sentiment suggests that firms
continue to see poor business conditions despite diminished un certainty regarding
Iraq.
Consumer expenditure appears to have strengthened in the first quarter, with
average euro-area retail sales in January  and February rising 1.2 percent versus
the fourth-quarter average.  German retail sales also posted solid gains and Italianauto registrations in the first quarter su rprised on the upside.  In contrast, euro-
area consumer confidence continued to fall throughout the first quarter before
rebounding somewhat in April.
IV-15
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.
Industrial production1.3 -.1 n.a. 1.3. .2 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume2.7 -.4 n.a. 2.3 -.8 n.a. n.a.
Unemployment rate38.3 8.5 n.a. 8.6 8.7 n.a. n.a.
Consumer confidence4-10 -14 -19.3 -18 -19 -21 -19
Industrial confidence4-11.7 -10.3 -11 -10 -11 -12 -13
Mfg. orders, Germany -1.2 .3 n.a. 4.1 -.8 n.a. n.a.CPI
52.1 2.3 2.3 2.1 2.4 2.4 2.1
Producer prices5.0 1.3 n.a. 2.3 2.7 n.a. n.a.
M357.1 6.9 7.9 7.2 7.9 7.9 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Excludes motor vehicles.3. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO defi nition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.     n.a.  Not available.
Euro-area twelve-month cons umer price inflation declined to 2.1 percent in
April, just above the ECB’s target ce iling, according to the preliminary estimate.
Excluding energy and unprocessed food, in flation stayed at 2 percent throughout
the first quarter, its lowest rate sin ce August 2001.  Twelve-month producer price
inflation rose to 2.7 percent in February.
In the United Kingdom , first-quarter GDP growth was lackluster according to
the preliminary estimate; manufacturing output increased, following declinesduring most of the past two years, wh ile overall industrial production fell because
of weakening activity in the energy sector .  Growth slowed to 0.9 percent in the
service sector, with most service indus tries experiencing slowing growth.  
Limited data for the second quarter suggest  that the pace of activity will continue
to be positive, but sluggish.  Business confidence continued to decline in April,though it remains well above its late 2001 low.  Cons umer sentiment moved up
somewhat in April but has not recovered to its level in the fall of 2002.  Retail
IV-16
sales growth improved in Ma rch, though was weak in the first quarter overall and
surveys suggest continued weakness in April. 
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.
Preliminary real GDP* 4.3 1.5 .8 ... ... ... ...
Industrial production .4 -.8 n.a. -.2 .7 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume1.7 1.6 .1 -1 .4 .6 n.a.
Unemployment rate2
      Claims-based 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 n.a.      Labor force survey
35.2 5.1 n.a. 5.1 n.a. n.a.  n.a.
Business confidence410.7 3 -1.3 2 -1 -5 -10
Consumer confidence5-2.7 -3 -10 -9 -10 -11 -8
Retail prices62.0 2.6 2.9 2.7 3.0 3.0 n.a.
Producer input prices7-2.3 1.4 5.1 4.5 6.2 4.5 n.a.
Average earnings73.8 3.7 n.a. 3.3 2.8 n.a. n.a.
1. s.a.a.r. 
2. Excludes motor vehicles. 3. Percent4. Three-month average centered on month shown.5. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expecting output to decrease.
6. Average of the percentage balance from consumers’ expectations of their financial
situation, general economic situation, unemployment, and savings over the next 12 months.
7. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.8. Percent change from year earlier....  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
According to one of the leading surveys,  housing prices were unchanged in April,
bringing the twelve-month increase in pri ces down to just over 20 percent. First-
quarter regional data indicate that the deceleration in prices has spread beyondLondon to most other regions of the count ry.  Borrowing to finance the purchase
of homes remained elevated through February.
Labor market conditions continued to be tight.  The official claims-based
unemployment rate held steady at 3.1 percen t in March, near a record low.  The
twelve-month rate of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage interest payments)
remained at 3 percent in March, above the Bank of En gland’s 2½ percent target. 
IV-17
The twelve-month growth rate of aver age earnings receded to 2.4 percent in
February, held down in part by  lower financial sector bonuses.
Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Br own presented the government’s budget
to Parliament on April 9.  In addition to confirmin g that he has set aside
£3 billion for the war in Iraq, the Chancellor announced an additional£670 million of spending on domestic c ounter-terrorism measures and
humanitarian work in Iraq.  Brown proj ected public sector net borrowing to be
2.5 percent of GDP for 2003-04 and 2.1 pe rcent of GDP for 2004-05, an upward
revision from the deficit projected in the November Pre-Budget Report, but stillrosier than consensus forecasts.
In Canada , real GDP by industry increased 2.3 percent in February, while
industrial production declined  1.7 percent.  Output growth was supported by the
strength of residential c onstruction.  Manufacturing, primarily motor vehicles,
and utilities output declined in the month after strong showings in January.  Theaverage of January and February GDP by industry increased 0.7 percent above
the average fourth-quarter level.   
Indicators suggest that domestic dema nd exhibited continued, though slowing,
growth in the first quarter.  Employment  growth remained strong in the first
quarter, though at a lower rate than  in 2002.  Recent job growth has been
supported by the booming housing market, with  a large gain in the number of real
estate-related service jobs.  Manufacturing jobs, after exhibiting strong growth in2002, declined in the first quarter, but ne vertheless the unemployment rate edged
down further in March.  Auto sales posted an estimated 5 percent decline in thefirst quarter, falling to the lowest level since the end of 2001.  However,
Canada’s housing boom entered its sec ond year, as housing starts increased
5.1 percent in the first quarter  from the previous quarter.
In March, the twelve-month rate of headlin e CPI inflation declined to 4.3 percent
from 4.6 percent in February, but remain ed well above the ceiling of the Bank of
Canada’s 1 to 3 percent target band.  The twelve-m onth rate reflects higher
energy prices and increases in tobacco  taxes, as well as higher automobile
insurance premiums.  Twelve-month co re inflation, excluding food, energy
prices, and indirect taxes, decreased slightly, to 3.1 percent in March from
3.3 percent in February.
IV-18
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Dec. Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
GDP by industry .9 .5 .1 n.a. .5 .2 n.a.
Industrial production 1.1 .0 -.1 n.a. .7 -.1 n.a.New mfg. orders .8 -2.4 -2.8 n.a. 3 1.6 n.a.Retail sales .7 .8 .2 n.a. .9 1.5 n.a.Employment .9 .8 .3 .5 .0 .4 .1Unemployment rate
17.6 7.5 7.5 7.4 7.4 7.4 7.3
Consumer prices22.3 3.8 3.9 4.5 4.5 4.6 4.3
Core Consumer Prices2,32.2 3.0 3.4 3.2 3.4 3.3 3.1
Consumer attitudes4124.4 121.8 ... 114.3 ... ... ...
Business confidence4129.7 136 ... 131.4 ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes.4. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
On April 15, the Bank of Canada increased the targeted overnight rate (its key
policy rate) and the Bank Rate 25 ba sis points each, to 3.25 percent and
3.5 percent, respectively.  The increase follows a 25-basis-point hike in March. 
In announcing the April increase, the Ba nk cited above-target inflation, higher
inflation expectations, and an economy ope rating near capacity as motivation for
its action.  The Bank also stated that the risks confronting the global economy
had become more balanced since the previous announcement date, as geopolitical
uncertainties had diminished and the price of oil had declined.
IV-19
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Japan
Trade 82.2 83.5 73.4 71.8 82.9 65.4
Current account 112.3 101.6 n.a. 100.6 124.5 n.a.
Euro area
Trade1128.1 107.2 n.a. -10.9 67.0 n.a.
Current account190.4 98.4 n.a. -82.5 41.8 n.a.
Germany
Trade 136.5 124.1 n.a. 136.4 129.4 n.a.Current account
142.6 77.4 n.a. -16.7 60.7 n.a.
France
Trade 2.0 1.3 n.a. .8 .7 n.a.Current account 4.4 4.3 n.a. 5.2 3.9 n.a.
Italy
Trade 8.4 6.2 n.a. 3.2 1.8 n.a.Current account
112.1 -15.1 n.a. -53.0 -12.3 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -55.1 -68.3 n.a. -61.4 -70.5 n.a.Current Account -6.6 -19.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 35.0 34.3 n.a. 40.3 36.7 n.a.Current Account 10.8 8.4 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-20
IV-21
IV-22
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Economic conditions were mixed in the developing world.  In Latin America,
Mexican data releases were generally encouraging, and activity in Argentina
continued to recover.  Brazilian fi nancial market c onditions improved
remarkably, but economic activity appears to have slowed.  Venezuela remains
in crisis.  In developing Asia, it appear s that SARS is having a significant impact
on the Hong Kong economy, and is probabl y having measurable effects in China
and Singapore as well, although we do not  yet have much firm data.  Activity
indicators for the first quarter suggest th at growth has slowed somewhat in much
of the region.  China’s very robust repor ted growth in the first quarter was
largely driven by special factors.
Chinese real GDP in the first quarter was 9.9 percent above its year-earlier level,
which translates into a staff estimate of a growth rate of 16.3 percent (s.a.a.r.) in
2003:Q1.  Chinese authorities cited strong exports as well as increases in public
and foreign investment when issuing th e data.  Anecdotal reports suggest that
production and exports were up in the qua rter as Chinese producers attempted to
fill orders before the war in Iraq, due to fears that the war would disrupt tradeflows.  Production data for the first qua rter support these re ports.  Nevertheless,
China recorded its first quarterly trade de ficit in about seven years.  Both exports
and imports soared in the quarter , but imports were up more than
35 percent (s.a.).  Elevated oil prices as  well as China’s reported efforts to boost
its oil reserves are part of the explana tion for the surge in imports, but it was also
due to lower tariffs that were put in place in January as a result of WTOaccession.  Consumer prices continued to  rise on a twelve-month basis in the
first quarter, after falling th roughout last year.  Higher oil prices and the strong
economy were responsible for the recen t shift from deflation to inflation.
China has reported the world’s highes t number of SARS cases, and the impact
on China’s economy is now being felt.  Data suggest that tourism was down
slightly in March, but this is difficu lt to interpret because China was still
covering up the full extent of the outbreak at that time.  Other reports suggestthat business travel and t ourism have been hit hard since the full extent of
China’s exposure to SARS has become known.  In its efforts to contain the
spread of SARS, China cancelled most  of a week-long holiday, quarantined
almost 10,000 people, and closed schools and many entertainment
establishments in Beijing.
IV-23
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP17.5 8.0 6.8 16.3 ... ... ...
Industrial production28.9 11.8 14.5 17.0 14.8 19.8 16.9
Consumer prices2- . 3 - . 4 - . 6. 5. 4. 2. 9
Trade balance323.1 30.3 45.6 -13.1 -29.8 -6.8 -2.6
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
Hong Kong reported 7 percent growth (s.a.a.r .) in fourth-quarter real GDP. 
Growth was led by exports, especially to China.  The pace of expansion likelyslackened early this year, as the unemplo yment rate rose to 7.5 percent in March. 
Manufacturing jobs were lost to lower wa ge workers in China, and construction
has been depressed due to the five-year slump in property prices.  Fallingproperty prices also continued to weigh on consumer prices, which fell in March. 
Exports to China rose sharply in Februa ry, narrowing the trade deficit somewhat.
The economic impact of SARS on Hong Kong  is already considerable.  Tourist
arrivals, hotel occupancy rates, and retail sales in certain  industries have
plummeted, in some cases to 80 percent below their year-ago levels.  In lateApril, the Hong Kong government unveiled a $1.5 billion (0.9 percent of GDP)
relief package that includes government loan guarantees for SARS-hitbusinesses and cuts in government property rental rates and utility rates.
In Taiwan , industrial production was roughly unchanged in the first quarter, as a
small increase in high-tech production was o ffset by declines in other industries. 
Import growth, owing largely to higher oil imports, outpaced export growth inthe first quarter, and the first-quarter tr ade surplus narrowed a bit as a result. 
Higher oil prices also caused deflation to abate somewhat, with prices in Marchonly slightly below their year-ago le vels.  SARS has not had the economic
impact on Taiwan that it had on some ot her Asian economies,  primarily due to
the small number of cases reported in Taiwan and Taiwan’s limited dependenceon tourism.
IV-24
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1-1.0 5.0 7.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.9 7.3 7.2 7.5 7.2 7.4 7.5
Consumer prices3-3.7 -1.6 -2.9 .9 -1.7 1.3 -2.3
Trade balance4-11.4 -7.7 -10.2 -6.9 -8.5 -6.9 -5.3
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1-1.8 4.1 3.7 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.6 5.2 5.1 5.2 5.2 5.2 5.2
Industrial production -7.3 6.4 1.1 -.1 -.7 .6 -2.7Consumer prices
3-1.7 .8 -.5 -.2 -1.1 -1.5 -.2
Trade balance415.6 18.1 19.6 13.5 .6 22.0 17.9
Current account517.9 25.7 30.9 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Data releases for Korea  over the intermeeting period suggest a slowdown from
the very rapid growth registered in late 2002.  Real GDP soared 8.3 percent in
the fourth quarter, supported by a jump in  fixed investment and strong net export
performance.  Industrial production rose only slightly in the first quarter, but the
unemployment rate remained low.  Ma rch consumer and business confidence
indicators fell sharply.  Export growth con tinued strong in the first quarter, but a
IV-25
runup in oil imports contributed to  a $6.7 billion current account deficit.
Consumer prices rose 3.8 percent over th e 12 months ended in April.  The U.S.
military success in Iraq, the start of mu ltilateral negotiations with North Korea,
and the government’s efforts to contain a recent corporate scandal haveimproved financial cond itions since the last Greenbook.  The won has
appreciated over 2 percent against the do llar, and the Korean stock market has
risen almost 13 percent since mid-March. 
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Feb. Mar. Apr.
Real GDP14.2 7.0 8.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.0 7.4 2.7 .4 .3 .3 n.a.Unemployment rate
23.8 3.1 3.0 3.1 3.0 3.1 n.a.
Consumer prices33.2 3.8 3.4 4.1 3.9 4.6 3.8
Trade balance413.5 14.2 15.5 9.6 12.0 -3.8 n.a.
Current account58.2 6.1 7.9 -6.7 -.8 -14.3 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In the ASEAN  region, data releases over the in termeeting period have painted a
mixed picture on activity since the four th quarter.  Growth in industrial
production in the Philippines slowed in January and February, and Malaysian
industrial production con tinued the decline seen late last year.  In Indonesia, in
contrast, activity expanded, reflecting in part recove ry from last fall’s bombing
in Bali.  Activity in Singapore and Tha iland held up in the first quarter, boosted
by net exports.  However, within th e region, Singapore has suffered the most
from the SARS epidemic, and its govern ment announced a relief package in late
April.  Inflation slowed over much of the region, despite the rise in oil prices
during February and early March.
IV-26
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 1.8 3.8 -.8 ... ... ... ...
Malaysia -.6 5.5 2.6 ... ... ... ...Philippines 3.9 5.8 12.7 ... ... ... ...Singapore -6.0 3.0 .4 ... ... ... ...Thailand 2.2 6.3 8.2 ... ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia3.7 -1.1 1.4 n.a. -.8 4.9 n.a.
Malaysia -4.1 4.1 -1.0 n.a. -.6 -1.6 n.a.Philippines -5.7 -6.1 2.4 n.a. 1.2 -.7 n.a.Singapore -11.6 8.5 -2.2 3.4 5.6 -13.7 11.3 Thailand 1.3 8.5 2.2 4.3 3.8 -1.9 3.4
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Indonesia 25.4 25.9 23.9 n.a. 27.1 27.4 n.a.
Malaysia 14.2 13.4 14.3 n.a. 24.1 16.9 n.a.Philippines -.9 -.2 -.8 n.a. -1.3 -3.5 n.a.Singapore 5.8 8.7 10.7 16.7 30.8 11.6 7.8Thailand 2.5 3.5 4.0 5.5 5.9 6.5 4.1
n.a.  Not available.
IV-27
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20011200212002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Indonesia 12.5 10.0 10.3 7.7 8.7 7.3 7.1
Malaysia 1.2 1.7 1.8 1.3 1.7 1.6 .7Philippines 4.1 2.6 2.6 2.9 2.7 3.1 2.9Singapore -.6 .4 .1 .7 .9 .4 .8Thailand .8 1.6 1.4 2.0 2.2 1.9 1.7
1. December/December.
In Mexico , data since the last Greenbook have  generally pointed to increased
activity.  Overall economic activity (a monthly proxy for GDP) posted a sizable
gain in February, exports were up ove r 2½ percent in the first quarter, and
business confidence turned up sharply in March.  The rise in exports led to a
significant narrowing of the trade deficit over the first quarter, compared withthe fourth quarter of last year, although the deficit widened a bit again in March. 
Retail sales data also point to a fir ming of domestic demand over January and
February.
The twelve-month rate of consumer pri ce inflation rose slightly in March to
5.7 percent; in anticipation of this hi gher-then-expected figure, the Bank of
Mexico tightened monetary policy agai n in late March.  Expectations for
end-2003 inflation based on su rvey data have been running steady at 4½ percent,
well above the Bank of Mexico ’s target of 3 percent.
In Brazil , indicators point to a slowing in economic activity from the second
half of last year, when a substantial rise in net expor ts boosted growth.  Over the
January-February period, industrial production growth slowed, and the
unemployment rate remained high at over 11 percent.  The trade surplus
narrowed in the first quarter, driven apparently by higher oil imports. 
Nevertheless, the current account  registered a small surplus, the first in ten years.
Persistently high inflation con tinued to dominate policy concerns. 
Twelve-month inflation in March was 17.7 percent, well above the 8.5 percent
upper limit of the government’s inflation target range for 2003.  While some rise
in inflation had been expected as a result of the sharp depreciation of the real in
2002 and the rise in domestic fuel prices , the considerable increase in non-traded
goods inflation has been a worrisome development.  In response, the Lula
government has signaled its determina tion to pursue disciplined fiscal and
IV-28
monetary policies.  In mid-April, Fi nance Minister Palocci unveiled long-
awaited proposals to reduce pension and survivor benefits for public sector
workers and to overhaul the tax system .  The reform proposals, which are
considered critical to fiscal solvency and sustained growth, were well received,boosting asset prices.  Since mid-March, the real has appreciated 15 percent and
the Brazilian EMBI+ spread over U.S. Tr easuries has fallen to about 840 basis
points.  At its April 23 policy meetin g, the central bank kept the overnight
interest rate (t he Selic) unchanged at 26.5 percent.
On April 29, the Brazilian government became the second major emerging
market economy to issue a sovereign bond in New York with collective action
clauses (CACs), placing a $1 billion bond that matures in 2007 at a yield of
10.7 percent.  (CACs are aimed at making debt restructurings easier in the event
of default.)  The Brazilian bonds would re quire 85 percent of investors to agree
to a debt restructuring, compared with the Mexican bonds issued in April, which
require a 75 percent supermajority. 
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1-1.5 2.1 .6 n.a. ... ... ...
Overall economic activity -.1 .9 .2 n.a. -.2 .5 n.a.Industrial production -3.3 -.2 -.3 n.a. .5 1.1 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.5 2.7 2.6 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.8
Consumer prices3 4.4 5.7 5.3 5.4 5.2 5.5 5.6
Trade balance4-10.0 -8.0 -6.4 -3.1 -3.1 -2.1 -4.1
Imports4168.4 168.7 168.5 169.3 169.3 169.2 169.3
Exports4158.4 160.7 162.0 166.2 166.2 167.1 165.2
Current account5-18.0 -14.0 -18.9 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
IV-29
1. In January 2002, following the collapse of the peso’s peg to the dollar, the
government forcibly converted dollar-d enominated deposits into pesos at an
unfavorable exchange rate to depositors and lengthened their maturities.Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1-.7 3.4 2.9 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.6 2.3 2.0 n.a. .6 .7 n.a.Unemployment rate
212.4 11.7 12.0 11.1 11.1 11.1 11.1
Consumer prices37.7 12.5 10.6 15.6 14.5 15.8 16.6
Trade balance42.6 13.1 23.9 16.7 17.0 15.4 17.7
Current account5-23.2 -7.6 -1.3 0.3 1.9 -2.4 1.4.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Break in October 2001 as a result of change in methodology.  Thus, 2001 is
average for Q4 only.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , further evidence of recovery was provided by a sharp rise in
industrial production in Marc h to a level 21 percent above that of a year ago,
although activity remains well below its 1998 peak.  Twelve-month inflation in
March was 32 percent, still high, but down considerably from over 40 percentlast year.  The reduction in inflation s eems to reflect the strengthening of the
peso.  Argentina met the fiscal and mone tary targets of its IMF program for the
first quarter of 2003.
Following the Supreme Court’s decisi on in early March questioning the
constitutionality of the g overnment’s January 2002 corralon,  the Duhalde
government in late March offere d a settlement to unhappy depositors.
1  Under
the deal, depositors would have immedi ate access to two-thirds of the peso
equivalent of their original dollar acc ounts (converted at the market exchange
rate).  The remainder w ould be converted into a ten-year dollar-denominated
bond paying below-market interest ra tes.  The low number of depositors
agreeing to these terms prompted the government to extend the deadline for its
offer to May 23.
IV-30
Following a late April first-round pres idential election, Néstor Kirchner (backed
by President Duhalde) and former pres ident Carlos Ménem will face each other
in a run-off on May 18.  Neither of th ese candidates has fully articulated a
program that addresses the country’s economic problems.  The new government
will take office on May 25.
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1 -10.3 -4.0 3.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -7.6 -10.7 5.8 7.8 3.4 1.4 1.6Unemployment rate
217.4 19.7 17.8 n.a. ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -1.4 41.0 40.4 35.8 39.7 36.2 31.7
Trade balance47.5 16.4 16.1 n.a. 19.5 19.3 n.a.
Current account5-4.5 9.0 8.7 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data are released for May and October only.  Figures for Q4 reflect data
for October.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Venezuela  remains mired in economic and political crisis.  Anecdotal reports
suggest that oil production and exports ha ve recovered furthe r, but have fallen
short of levels prevailing before last December’s ge neral strike.  The capital
controls that have stopped all private s ector external tran sactions since early
February remain in effect, along with th e fixed exchange rate regime imposed in
early February.  Monthly consumer pri ce inflation, which had risen sharply last
year, dropped back in March in response to  the stabilization of the bolivar and to
the steep decline in non-oil related activity since the fourth quarter of last year. 
In mid-April, the central bank lowered its  discount rate from 39 to 36 percent. 
In March, President Chavez rattled investors by indicating that the government
would seek to restructure its foreign de bt.  Economic officials quickly countered
that the government would seek a voluntar y restructuring, but there has been no
further word on the subject.  As of Fe bruary, internationa l reserves stood at
$14 billion; this compares with schedul ed payments of $5 billion on sovereign
external debt over the rest of this year .  Tensions between business interests and
IV-31
the Chavez government, already high, have been exacerbated by the capital
controls. 
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1 .9 -16.7 -41.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.3 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices312.3 31.2 30.6 35.5 33.8 38.7 34.1
Non-oil trade balance4-12.2 -7.4 -5.5 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance49.3 13.9 14.80 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account53.9 7.7 8.63 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.