Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 6/05/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                     March 13, 2002
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                       March 13, 2002
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developm ents
Overview 
We currently  estimate that real GDP incr eased at an annual rate of 1.4 percent in 
the fourth quarter of last y ear, and av ailable indicators sug gest that output is 
expanding  at a considerably  more rapi d rate in the first quarter. Private 
employment wa s up mode stly in February, and initia l claims f or unemploy ment 
insurance are down from their hig hs in the fourth quarter. Althoug h sales of 
motor vehicles moderated, on averag e, in January  and F ebruary , consumer 
spending  on other g oods was strong . Hous ing starts turned back up in J anuary , 
in part because of low mortg age rates. Industrial pr oduction increased last 
month amid indicators that most industrie s have worked throug h their inventory 
overhang s. After a sig nificant contr action throug hout last y ear, business 
purchases of equipment and software are beginning  to recover, with both orders 
and shipments up in J anuary ; however, nonresidential constr uction continues to 
decline. Meanwhile, inflation remains lo w, althoug h energ y prices appear to be 
firming. 
Labor Mark et Devel opments 
The data from the J anuary  and F ebruary employ ment reports sug gest that the 
labor market has bottomed out and may  be improving . Following  a decline in 
January , private pay roll employ ment rose 46,000 in F ebruary , its first increase 
since last May ; some of the g ains may have been due to unusual seasonal 
patterns that boosted employ ment in re tail trade and cons truction. The one-
month diffusion index  of employ ment rose to 48.2—indicating  that nearly  as 
many  industries were adding jobs as were losing  them. 
Retail trade added 58,000 jobs in F ebruary after a similar g ain in J anuary . 
Below-averag e hiring for t he hol idays likely led to a large decl ine in 
employment on a seasonal ly adjusted basi s in Decem ber and t hen a st rong 
rebound in J anuary  and F ebruary , when fe wer workers had to be laid off. 
However, on net, retail tr ade added jobs over these three months. A rise of 
25,000 in construction employ ment was le d by gains in concrete work (20,000) 
and heavy  construction (12,000). These tw o weather-sensitive seg ments of the 
industry  benefited from the unusually warm and dry  conditions in early 
February . Service industr ies added 40,000 jobs last month, the third straig ht 
monthly  increase. Notably , employ ment in help supply  services rose for the 
first time since September 2000. In contrast, manufacturing  shed another 
50,000 jobs in February , althoug h the dec line was less than in the preceding  few 
months. Employ ment in the related whol esale trade industry  also declined ag ain 
in February . 
Aggregate weekly  hours of production or nonsupervisory  workers on nonfarm 
private pay rolls rose 0.1 percent in February  after a 0.3 percent decline in 
January . Averag e weekly  hours held st eady at 34.1 hours in F ebruary , the level 
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
they have maintained since Nove mber. Meanwhile , the manufacturing 
workweek ticked up 0.1 hour, to 40.7 hours. 
The data from the household survey  have  been more difficult to interpret, 
althoug h they  also sug gest that the labor market has bottomed out. The 
unemploy ment rate edg ed down 0.1 percenta ge point in F ebruary , to 5.5 percent, 
after a 0.2 percentag e point decline in J anuary . At the same time, the labor force 
participation rate fe ll sharply , to 66.4 percent, in J anuary  and then bounced back 
up, to 66.7 percent, in F ebruary . The m ovements in the unemploy ment rate and 
the labor force participation r ate over the past two months seem to have been 
distorted by  recent difficulties in seasona lly adjusting  the data at this time of 
year. Using  seasonal factors from 1997, before these seasonal adjustment 
problems beg an to appear, the labor force participation rate would have 
averag ed 66.9 percent in J anuary  and February , and the unemploy ment rate 
would have been 5.7 percent in both m onths. Thus, after having  risen from 
5.0 percent in September to 5.6 percen t in November, the unemploy ment rate 
probably  leveled out at about  5.7 percent. Similarly , for adults ag e 25 and over, 
whose employ ment is less sensitive to th e seasonal hiring  around the turn of the 
year, the unemploy ment rate rose from 3.8 percent in September to 4.4 percent 
in November and has since held steady  near 4.5 percent. 
Elsewhere in the household survey , recent job losers as a proportion of 
household employ ment edg ed down in J anuary  and F ebruary . However, the 
number of those unemploy ed for more than 27 weeks increased 60,000, and the 
proportion of those working  part-time for economic reasons remained 
unchang ed over the two months. 
The four-week m oving averag e of unem ployment insurance cl aims adjusted 
using  FRB seasonal factors stood at 383,000 in the week ended March 2. Since 
the end of J anuary , the le vel of initial claims has declined 10,000 and is now at 
its lowe st level sinc e last Ma rch. The four-week m oving averag e of i nsured 
unemploy ment has also fallen since th e end of J anuary , to 3.46 million in the 
week ended F ebruary  23. Part of the decline in insured unemploy ment over the 
past several months comes from the rise in the number of individuals ex hausting 
their unemploy ment insur ance (UI) benefits. The ex haustion rate for UI 
benefits, defined as the ratio of the number of individuals ex hausting  their 
benefi ts in a g iven m onth to the num ber who fi rst began recei ving UI benefi ts 
six months earlier, has risen nearly  10 pe rcentag e points since last spring  on a 
seasonally  adjusted basis, reaching  40 percent in J anuary . Since March 2001, 
2.7 million individuals have ex hausted their unemploy ment insurance benefits. 
Nonetheless, even after having  accounted  for individuals who have ex hausted 
their benefi ts, insured unem ployment woul d have fal len in Decem ber and 
January . 
II-6
Other indicators also sug gest that the labor market has st opped deteriorating — 
but offer few sig nificant sig ns of imp rovement. The Conference B oard’s help 
wanted inde x remained depressed in J anuary, and the  gap in c onsume r attitude s 
between those reporting  jobs plentiful a nd those reporting  jobs hard to g et was 
virtually unchanged in F ebruary, with slig htly more individua ls still r eporting 
jobs hard to g et. The news on planned hiring  is mix ed: In the Manpower survey , 
the proportion of respondents that ex pected  to hire workers in the near-future 
edged up, while the proportion in the National F ederati on of I ndependent 
Business (NF IB) February  survey  fell.  The proportion of respondents to the 
NFIB survey reporting positions ha rd to f ill ha s held ste ady over the past few 
months. 
The B LS now reports that productivity  in the nonfarm business sector increased 
at an annual rate of 5.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001, an upward revision 
of 1.7 percentag e points from the pre liminary  release; the revision primarily 
reflects the upward revision to the ch ange in output from -0.4 percent to 
1.2 percent.1 Over the four quarters ended in 2001:Q4, productivity  is estimated 
to have advanced 2.0 percent. Althoug h this is 0.6 percentag e point below the 
increase reg istered in the four quarter s ended in 2000:Q4 and a full percentag e 
point less than the g ains in 1998 and 1999, it is nonetheless quite strong  given 
the decel eration in out put last year. 
Labor  Out put per Hour 
(Percent ch ange from preceding  perio d at co mpound annua l rate; 
based on season ally adjusted data) 
Sector 20001 20011 2001 
Q2 Q3 Q4 
Nonfarm businesses 
All persons2 2.6 2.0 2.1 1.1 5.2 
All emp loyees3 2.3 2.0 1.3 1.2 5.5 
Nonfinancial corp oration s4 2.9 2.1 3.3 .9 3.9 
1. Changes are f rom the fourth quarter of  the precedin g year to th e fourth quarter of 
the year shown. 
2. Includes non-employees (p ublished definition). 
3. Assumes that the growth rate o f hours of all p ersons equals the growth rate o f 
hours of all employees. 
4. The nonfinancial corporate s ector con sists o f all co rporations doing business in 
the Un ited States  with the exception  of banks, stock and com modity  brok ers, and 
finance an d insurance com panies; the sector accou nts for abou t two-thirds of business 
employment. 
1. On  the bas is of on our interpretation  of recen t data, w e now estimate th at produ ctivity 
increas ed 5.1 percen t in the fourth quarter. 
II-7
Indust rial P roduc tion 
The available data sug gest that industria l production (I P) rose in F ebruary . The 
weekly  and monthly  physical product data  that we have in hand are, on the 
whole, a noticeable plus for the chang e in IP. In addition, available indicators 
suggest that the production of hig h-tech items firmed ag ain in F ebruary . In 
other manufacturing  industries, ag gregate hours worked edg ed down in 
February . 
The weekly  production data should contri bute more than 0.1 percentag e point to 
the chang e in overall I P in February , with siz able contributions from the 
appliance, steel, and lumber and ply wood industries. Output at utilities appears 
to have bounced back in F ebruary  after the unusually  warm weather that held 
down production in previous months. In contrast, mining  output likely  posted 
its fifth consecut ive m onthly decl ine in February , in large part  because of 
decreases in oil and g as extraction. 
Total production of motor vehicles ran at an annual rate of 12.3 million units in 
February —a shade hig her than in January  and up about 700,000 units from the 
fourth-quarter averag e. Current schedules  call for assemblie s to ste p down to a n 
Produc tion of D omestic Autos and Tr ucks 
(Millio ns of units  at an annua l rate except as noted; FRB s easonal basis) 
Item 2001 2002 2001 2002 
Q3 Q4 Q11 Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. 1 
U.S. pr oduction 11.6 11.6 12.1 12.3 12.2  12.3 11.7 
Autos  4.7  4.8  5.3  5.1  5.1  5.5  5.2 
Trucks  6.9  6.8  6.8  7.2  7.1  6.8  6.5 
Days' supply2 
Autos  49.1 38.3 n.a. 47.1 49.4  51.3 n.a. 
Ligh t trucks3 74.0 52.3 n.a. 57.6 65.6  59.2 n.a. 
Inventories4 2.69 2.27 n.a. 2.27 2.34 2.40 n.a. 
Note. C omponents may not sum to totals  becau se of rounding. 
1. Production rates ref lect W ard’s Communicatio ns’ latest estim ates f or March  and 
the first quarter. 
2. Qu arterly  average calcu lated u sing end-of-period s tocks and average reported s ales. 
3. Ex cludes medium and heavy (classes 3-8) trucks. 
4. En d-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy (class 3-8) trucks. 
n.a. Not av ailable. 
II-8
II-9
annual rate of 11-3/4 million units and to hold at that pace throug h the end of the 
second quarter. With sales ha ving remained at a relativ ely high level so far this 
year, dealer stocks of new vehicles have been running  on the lean side of 
historical targ ets.2 According ly, our industry  cont acts report that inventories are 
a tad on the lean side but that they  consider them to be in reasonably  good 
shape. 
In the hig h-tech sector, the latest  data from the Semiconductor I ndustry 
Assoc iation on wor ld chip shipme nts, whic h we  use to estimate the 
semiconductor I P index , sug gest that th e output of semiconductors is g aining 
momentum. Industry  analy sts have re ported that chip inventories are at 
manag eable levels and th at manufacturers are poised to raise production should 
a step-up in demand materializ e. Indeed, several indicators sug gest that a 
recovery  of the semiconducto r industry  is already  under way : New orders for 
New  Orders for Du rable Good s 
(Percen t change from p receding period except as n oted; season ally adjusted) 
Component Share, 
2001: 
H1 
(percen t) 2001 2002 
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. 
Total orders 100.0 -5.1 1.1 -6.1 .9 2.0 
Adjus ted orders1 71.0 -5.7 -1.3 .5 1.0 4.4 
Computers 4.0 -19.4 8.5 -.1 -2.2 3.9 
Communication equipment 3.0 -16.6 4.3 1.4 -4.8 7.7 
Semiconduc tors and related 
electronic components 3.0 -3.4 -.1 -3.7 15.2 14.2 
Other cap ital good s 23.0 -5.3 -2.9 3.1 -1.1 .3 
Other2 37.0 -3.4 -1.9 -.7 2.0 5.7 
Memo: 
Real adjusted orders  . . . -4.8 -.3 .6 1.2 4.2 
Excluding high tech  . . . -14.1 -9.0 .5 .9 3.9 
1. Orders excluding defense capi tal goods , nondefense aircraf t, and motor vehicle 
parts. 
2. Includes prim ary metals, most fabricated m etals, most stone, clay , and glass 
produ cts, household appl iances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods . 
. . . Not applicable. 
2. Domestic lig ht vehicle sto cks, which include domestically  produced and imported autos 
and light trucks from Canada an d Mex ico, edg ed higher in February, but days’ supply dropped 
back  a bit, rem aining below  dealers ’ target of 65 day s. 
II-10
semiconductors increased more than 14 percent (in nominal terms) in both 
Decem ber and J anuary , and Dat aquest  report s that spot  prices for m emory chips 
have been rising  steadily  since early  November. By contrast, anecdotal reports 
from our industry  contacts i ndicate that the communica tions equipment industry 
is still in a  slump. 
Some of the most recent forward-l ooking  indicators of activity  in the 
manufacturing  sector have been encour aging. In particular, after having 
increased 1.2 percent in December, real adjusted durable g oods orders jumped 
another 4.2 percent in J anuary , with increas es in a wide variety  of industries. 
The I nstitute for Supply  Manag ement’s di ffusion index  of new orders shot up in 
February  to its hig hest level sin ce 1994, and the diffusion index  of order 
backlog s moved into the reg ion associat ed with an ex pansion in manufacturing 
activity  for the first time  in almost two y ears. 
Inventories 
Invent ories have been drawn down subst antially in recent  months. Indeed, t he 
Census M3 data indicate that the a ggregate inventory -shipments ratio for 
manufacturing  has fallen from its peak  of 1.43 months last September to 
1.33 months in J anuary . Similarly , inve ntory -shipments ratios for wholesale 
and ret ail trade are bot h down si gnificantly from  the el evated levels that 
prevailed throug hout much of 2001.3 
In spite of this improveme nt, several industries still appear to be burdened by 
excess inventories. In particular, data from th e flow-of-g oods inventory 
measurement sy stem, which is useful for tracking  inventories by type of product 
wherever held in the distribution cha nnel (rather than by  which industry  holds 
the inventories, as in the M3 data),  indicate siz able remaining  inventory 
overhang s of several pr oducts, including  communications equipment, paper 
products, and electrical machinery .4 For these g oods, day s’ supply  ratios have 
not chang ed much, if at all, from their uncomfortably  high peak levels. For 
some other products, including  apparel, furniture, prima ry metals, and industrial 
machinery , inventory -consumption ratio s that were previously  high have 
improved, thoug h they  still appear to be  well above normal levels. The rebound 
3. A complete rep ort on business inventories in  current-cost term s for January will be 
included in the Greenbook  Supplement. 
4. The FRB staff’s fl ow-of-goods  system measures changes in inventories by tracking the 
flow of goods  in the econ omy. The system divides the output from the staff’s i ndustrial 
produ ction  indexes into more than 70 dif ferent produ ct categ ories . For each  produ ct categ ory, 
the system estimates the supply of goods  flowing into the econ omy—that is, dom estic 
produ ction plus imports. The system then estimates how much of the supply flows out, whether 
as final dem and, including exports, or as  inputs for other goods . The difference bet ween the 
amount flowing in and the amount flowing out represents the change in inventories: We find 
inventory accu mulation  if inflows exceed ou tflows and inventory liquidation  if outflows exceed 
inflows. 
II-11
in industrial production ma y be restrained somewhat while these sectors 
continue to work throug h problems of oversupply . 
Status of  Inventory Overhangs 
Inventory overh ang Products 
None evident Chemicals and pr oducts; petroleum 
products; ston e, clay , and glass; fab ricated 
metals; tran sportation  equipment; 
instruments 
Largely  elimin ated Electron ic comp onents (in cluding 
semiconduc tors); computer and office 
equipment; tex tiles; lu mber an d wood 
products; rubbe r and pl astics; 
miscellaneous manufactures. 
Evident but som e 
improvement Apparel; fu rniture an d fixtures; printing and 
publishing; primary metals; indus trial 
mach inery. 
Evident and little 
improvement Communications equipment; paper and 
products; electrical mach inery. 
Source. FRB staff flow-of-goods  inventory system. 
Consum er Spending 
Avai lable dat a indicate that the pace of consum er spendi ng has been wel l-
maintained since the end of last y ear. Real purchases of g oods ex cluding  cars 
and t rucks, whi ch rose at  a rapi d pace from  Novem ber throug h January , likely 
increased moderately  further in F ebruary while sales of new motor vehicles 
turned back up. 
In February, retail sales in the  control categ ory of stores, which ex cludes sales at 
motor vehicle dealers and building  suppl y outlets, increased 0.3 percent, after 
having  climbed 1.0 percent in each of th e previous two months. Spending  was 
up not iceabl y last month at furni ture and hom e furni shing stores, el ectronics and 
appliance outlets, and food services esta blishments. However, spending  did not 
chang e significantly  in the other categ ories of the control g roup. We estimate 
that real PCE for the control items al so advanced 0.3 percent in F ebruary , 
following much l arge gains in January  and Decem ber. 
After a record pace i n the fourt h quart er, sal es of l ight vehi cles fel l in January 
but moved sharply  higher in F ebruary to an annual rate of 16.5 million units. 
II-12
II-13
Althoug h manufacturers shifted the co mposition of price incentives from 
reduced-rate financing  to cas h rebates over the first two months of the y ear, they 
have kept the overall leve l of incentives hig h, and consumers have responded 
enthusia stically.5 Confidential data on fleet sa les indic ate that most of  the 
February  gain in purchases of lig ht vehi cles was in sales to consumers. As a 
result, r eal PCE f or motor  vehicles is estimated to ha ve increased in F ebruary. 
Looking  ahead to March, motor vehicle manufacturers have indicated that they 
expect sales to move  lowe r this month, r eturning to a more mode rate pace. 
According  to the most recent data, ou tlays on services rose 0.3 percent in 
January , with increases across m ost categories. Spending  on hotels and motels 
posted another siz able g ain, returning  to its pre-September le vel. In addition, 
medical care ex penditures moved up somewh at, as did spending  on educational 
and charitable activitie s. Personal busine ss expenditur es rose only  mode stly in 
January , althoug h an increase in stock market trading  volumes points to a 
further pickup in F ebruary . Also, althoug h temperatures remained unseasonably 
warm in F ebruary , they  were down on averag e from  January  and l ikely led to 
higher spending  on energ y services. 
Real disposable personal income rose  1.5 percent in J anuary  after moderate 
gains in the precedi ng two months. January ’s out sized increase was i n part  the 
result of annual cost-of-livin g adjustments to the level of transfer pay ments and, 
to a lesser ex tent, federal pay . These step-ups more than offset over-the-month 
declines in both private wag es and salaries and in interest income. In addition, 
because of last y ear’s tax  legislation, personal tax  and nontax  payments fell 
sharply . Viewed over a long er period, r eal income g ains remain siz able; the 
year-over-y ear chang e in real DPI  in January  was 3.6 percent—about the same 
as the increase a y ear earl ier. 
Both the Mi chigan Survey  Research  Center’s overall index  of consumer 
sentime nt and the  Conf erence Board’s inde x of consume r expectations e dged 
down i n February , mainly because of d eclines in consum ers’ ex pectations of 
future personal and busine ss conditions. Neverthele ss, each index  remained 
close to its historical averag e, and t heir decl ines were not  reflected in 
5. W eekly data f rom J. D. P ower and Associates  indicate th at the percen t of sales receiv ing a 
cash rebate s urged in  Febru ary as did th e average cas h rebate receiv ed in those sales. These data 
also sugge st that the average interest rate paid for automobile financing rose in the latter half of 
January from extremely low levels in the fourth quarter b ut that rates in  February were little 
changed from those lev els. General Motors  announced a n ew incentive pack age beg inning on 
March 1, which allows zero-percent financing on 36-month car loans or a cash rebate of up to 
$2,002. (GM en ded its  most recen t zero- percen t financing prog ram in early  January.) Reduced 
rates o n longer-term loans also  are av ailab le. Ford and Chrysler w ill co ntinue to offer a ch oice 
of zero- percen t financing on 36-month loans, redu ced rat es on longer-term loans, or up to 
$2,500 cas h back . 
II-14
II-15
II-16
II-17
households’ assessments of buy ing conditions. Indeed, the proportion of 
households in the Michig an survey  who believe F ebruary  was a g ood time to 
purchase a household appliance was roug hly unchang ed, as was the proportion 
of households in the Conference B oard survey  planning  to purchase a major 
appliance in the nex t six months. In part  because of t he increase i n cash rebat es 
last month, the  Michigan Sur vey’s inde x of car-buying attitude s in F ebruary 
remained at J anuary ’s hig h level, as a large percentag e of respondents continued 
to report favorable assessmen ts of vehicle prices. 
Housing Mark ets 
The pace of hom ebuilding has been rem arkabl y strong in the past  several 
months. New homes were started at an  annual rate of a bout 1.7 million units in 
January —their hig hest leve l in almost two y ears. Althoug h the streng th in 
January  homebuilding  resulted in part  from unusually  warm and dry  weather, 
construction would likely  have been relatively  brisk even if the weather had 
been normal. Indeed, adjusted per mits for sing le-family construction, which are 
less affect ed by  weat her than are st arts and are g eneral ly a more rel iable 
indicator of planned constr uction activity , were above starts in J anuary . The 
high level of permits in J anuary, and la te last year, sug gests tha t new 
construction remained robust in F ebruary . 
The J anuary  reading s on both ex isting  and new home sales looked like statistical 
outliers. Existing  home sales spiked in J anuary  to an annual rate of more than 
6 million units. Althoug h we have no specific reason to doubt this 
figure—other than its record-settin g departure from recent reading s—we 
suspect  that January ’s pace of sal es was not  repeat ed last month. New hom e 
sales, in contrast, declined  fairly  sharply  in January  and stood near the low end 
of the rang e they  have occupied for more than three y ears.6 Initial estimates of 
new home sales are based on incomple te source data and are subject to 
substantial revision. A Census anal yst speculated that because J anuary ’s 
estimate for late reports wa s unusually  low, he would not be surprised if total 
new sales were eventually revised up in the coming  months to nearer the middle 
of their recent  rang e. 
Low m ortgage rates have cont ributed subst antially to the recent  strength of t he 
housing  sector. The averag e rate on a 30-y ear fix ed-rate mortg age contract has 
remained near 7 percent  for m ore than a y ear, and t he averag e rate on a one-y ear 
adjustable contract has d eclined fairly  steadily  during  this period. These low 
6. Recall th at new home sales are recorded  at signing and therefore ten d to ref lect 
contemporaneous economic conditions, while ex isting home sales are reco rded at clo sing, and 
therefore ten d to reflect eco nomic conditions as of a month or two earlier. 
II-18
II-19
II-20
II-21
rates have helped keep mortg age payments low despite rising  home prices and 
have supported home sales a nd homebuilding  even as employ ment has declined. 
Forward-looking  indicators of homebuild ing activity  have re mained favorable: 
Home buying attitude s—as reported in the  Michigan Sur vey—and loa n 
applications for the purchase of a hom e—as reported by  the Mortg age Bankers 
Association—remained at hig h levels in  February . One cautionary  note is the 
recent deceleration in housing  prices, wh ich could sug gest a softening  in the 
housing  sector. In particular, the averag e price of new homes, adjusted for their 
location, siz e, and amenities, decelerated fa irly sharply  in the latter half of 2001. 
This pattern was also evident, if  less pronounced, for ex isting  home sales.7 
Business F ixed Investm ent 
Equipm ent and soft ware. Real outlay s for equipment  and soft ware fel l at an 
annual rate of 4.8 per cent in the fourth quarter but appear headed for a modest 
increase t his quart er. The dat a indicate that shipments and orders of durable 
goods in J anuary  were surprising ly strong, and tentative sig ns of recovery 
from  the hi gh-tech sect or cont inue t o accum ulate. 
Shipments of nondefense capital g oods ex cluding  aircraft moved up 2.5 percent 
in January . Shipments of computers and peripheral s rose for t he fifth straight 
month, solidify ing the view that the sect or is recovering . On the other hand, 
shipments of communications equipment turned down ag ain. Outside of the 
high-tech sector, shipments of machin ery and of eng ines and turbines were 
especially  robust, and most ot her sectors recorded increases.8 Meanwhile, new 
orders for nondefense capital g oods ex cludi ng aircraft increased 1.5 percent in 
January , reversing  the decline posted in December. Althoug h the hig h-tech 
sectors led the rebound, orders in othe r sectors edg ed up in the ag gregate.9 
7. The repeat -sales price index for existing homes is based on the sales prices of only those 
properties f or which more than one tran sactio n is recorded. It therefore abs tracts  from some of 
the compositional shifts that can  affect m edian and average price m easures; it d oes not, however, 
accou nt for improvements to or depreciation  of these homes and is, therefore, n ot a tru e 
“constant quality” measure. 
8. Shipments of machinery were up 5.8 percent in total; in dustrial m achinery rose 
4.3 percen t, but those shipments accou nted for just one-tenth of the net increas e. Detailed data 
that would further iden tify the source of  the larg e gain are u nreported. 
9. New orders  for nondefense capi tal goods  excluding aircraf t and high-tech goods  were 
revised dow n considerably  in Decem ber, m ostly becau se of revisions in railroad equ ipment and 
electrical equ ipment. In both  sectors , the rev isions appear to  reflect lo wer orders for item s with 
long lead  times an d have little im plicatio n for shipments in coming months. Excluding these 
categ ories , new orders  excluding aircraf t and high-tech goods  increas ed 1.0 percen t in Decem ber 
and 0.4 percent in January, to the highest level since last August . 
II-22
II-23
II-24
II-25
Recent revenue announcements from the larg est software companies, which the 
BEA use s to estimate software spending , have taken on a  more encouraging 
tone. While Microsoft had an especially  strong  fourth quarter and ex pects g ood 
results in the current quarter, most ot her software companies that have made 
pronouncements ex pect that revenues w ill closely  track the modest rebound in 
technolog y spending  that a ppears to be in prog ress. 
Business demand for motor vehicles remain s slug gish, albeit with hints that the 
worst may  be over. Fleet sales of lig ht vehicles moved hig her in F ebruary  for 
the second consecutive month. In the co mmercial truck sector , sales of medium 
and heavy  trucks declined in J anuary  but did not completely  reverse the fourth-
quart er increase. Measured as a t hree-month moving  averag e, net new orders 
for medium and heavy  trucks (classes 5 throug h 8) edg ed hig her in J anuary , and 
order cancel lations t icked down aft er havi ng risen in Decem ber. 
Nonresidential construction. Excluding the effect  of the chang e in the lease of 
the W orld Trade Center, real spending  for the construction of nonresidential 
structures declined at an annual rate  of 23 percent in the fourth quarter. 
According  to monthly  data, real outlay s for private nonresidential building s in 
January were up mor e than 2 pe rcent from a  month e arlier but we re still be low 
the averag e level for t he fourt h quart er as a whol e.10 
Vacancy  rates have ri sen, and i n conse quence, spendi ng for new offi ce bui ldings 
has fallen sharply . Althoug h spending  for industrial building s edged up in 
January, it wa s still be low the  fourth-quarter reading, and we ll below the  level 
recorded earlier last year, as low c apacity utiliza tion c ontinue d to da mp inte rest 
in new industrial space. In contrast, spending  on other co mmercial c onstruction 
has been relatively  well main tained, with real spendi ng in January  above the 
fourt h-quart er pace. 
Real spending  on new drilling  and mining  structures declined at an annual rate 
of more than 50 percent in the fourth quarter. Given the further drop in the 
combine d numbe r of oil a nd gas drilling  rigs in ope ration dur ing January and 
February , the decline appears to ha ve continued into this quarter. 
Govern ment Sector 
Federal. The recent pattern of less favorable budg et performance has 
continued: The $44 billion federal unified surplus for J anuary  fell short of last 
year’s $76 billion surplus. Outlay s in January  rose 11 percent from a y ear 
10. T he real  monthly spending data are bas ed on fixed weights from 1996. The Census does 
not publish chain-weighted figures for the monthly data on  construction put in place. 
II-26
II-27
earlier owing  to a release of payments resulting  from the  late comple tion of  the 
fiscal 2002 appropriations bills, increas ed spending  on defense and homeland 
security , and a boost in cy clically  sensitiv e transfer pay ments. A 7 percent drop 
in receipts in J anuary  reflected the reduc tion in withholding  associated with the 
new 10 percent bracket, shifts in receipts from December 2000 into J anuary 
2001, and the weaker economy . Refunds  certified throug h March 8, which 
represent almost one-half of the to tal ex pected this filing  season, were 
17 percent  higher than i n the com parabl e period last year. The i ncrease i n 
refunds is consistent with  the tax  reductions enacted last y ear and with last 
year’s over-withholding , which is  typical in a weak economy . 
Adm inistration’s Estimates of Unif ied B udget Stance 
(Fiscal y ears, b illions of dollars) 
Item 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total, 
2003- 07 
Baselin e surplus or deficit (- )1 -9 51 109 169 196 240 764 
LESS 
Budget effects  of policy initiatives 
Defense and homeland security 0 31 38 45 52 58 224 
Miscellaneous 7 23 27 43 63 85 241 
Stim ulus placeh older 90 77 57 20 -6 -7 141 
EQUA LS 
Total surplus or d eficit -106 -80 -14 61 86 104 157 
1. Reflects OMB ’s preferred  definition, which excludes em ergency supplemental 
appropri ations from current services. 
SOURCE. Budget  of the U.S. Government, Fiscal Year 2003  (February 2002);  and FRB staff 
calcu lation s to allocate th e change in debt s ervice cos ts betw een the stimulus placeh older an d 
other pol icies in 2006 an d 2007. 
In early  February , the Administration released its fiscal 2003 budg et. Its 
projection of the budg et—under the policies then in place and the 
Administr ation’ s economic  assumptions—showe d a $9 billion unif ied deficit in 
fiscal 2002 and moderate surpluses thereaf ter. The projected baseline surplus 
totaled $2.2 trillion for the 2002-11 period, down from $5.6 trillion in last 
April’s budg et. Key factors in this downward revision include the tax  cuts 
enacted last y ear, federal spending  in response to the September 11 attacks, and 
less favorable econo mic assumptions.11 Polic y initia tives included in the 
Administration’s budg et would reduce the surplus by  about $600 billion 
11. A s part of its analysis of the Administration’s budget, the Congressional Budget Office 
has also released updated bas eline surplus proj ections. Incorporatin g the econ omic data releas ed 
since its  January proj ection , which forecas ted small def icits over the next two years, the CBO 
now expects small baseline surpluses in both fiscal 2002 an d 2003. 
II-28
II-29
between fiscal 2003 and 2007. Major initiatives included increases in 
discretionary  outlay s, which are earmark ed for defense and homeland security , 
and a placeholde r for an economic  stimulus pa ckage. 
A stimulus pa ckage that was enacted last we ek is le ss costly  than the 
Administration’s placeholder; it is estima ted to reduce the surplus by  $51 billion 
in fiscal 2002 and $43 billion in fiscal 2003. A three-y ear partial ex pensing 
provision, retroactive to Septembe r 11, 2001, allows corporations to 
imme diately deduct 30 pe rcent of new capital acquisitions with a  tax life of 
20 years or less—including  equipment and software but not structures. The bill 
also provides an ex tension of unemplo yment insurance benefits, which are 
typically  exhausted after 26 weeks.12 
State an d local govern ments. State and local g overnment employ ment rose 
17,500 on averag e during  the first two months  of the y ear—well below the rapid 
37,000 monthly  pace in 2001 but not particul arly weak relative to historical 
averag es. Despi te scattered reports of hiring  freez es at g overnments that are 
struggling with f iscal difficulties, the se cutbacks are not a pparent in the 
aggregate data. The surg e in construction that began late last year and continued 
in January  and late last y ear was buoy ed in part by  the unusually  warm and dry 
weat her. 
In a January  survey  of states by  the Na tional Conference of S tate Legislatures, 
45 states and W ashing ton DC reported th at revenues during  the first half of 
fiscal 2002 failed to meet ex pectations. Moreover, th e number of states whose 
expenditures were running  ahead of pl ans rose to 30 from the 22 reported in 
November; many  of the spe nding  overruns were in Medicaid. Legislatures are 
currently  in the throes of deciding  what combination of remedies to use to 
balance their budg ets. Initially , spending  reductions and use of rainy -day funds 
were ci ted most frequent ly. More r ecent ly, several  governm ents, such as 
Virginia’s, have been considering  tax hikes as a complementary  option. A 
combination of these and other strateg ies should work to help states avert 
budg etary  deficits this spring . Moreove r, fiscal 2002 does not end until J une 30 
for most states, and the outlook for econo mic activity  has brig htened since many 
states last reviewed t heir revenue forecast s, a devel opment suggesting that 
budg et outcomes may  not be as ne gative as previously  projected. 
12. The bill provides up to 13 weeks of temporary extended unemployment benefits for 
workers resid ing in states w ith an insured unemployment rate b elow 4 percent. For workers in 
states w ith a higher unemployment rate, u p to 26 weeks of benefits are p rovided. Benefits are 
100 percen t federal ly funded an d are av ailable through Decem ber 31, 2002. 
II-30
II-31
Prices 
Overall inflation picked up a bit in J anuary, as consumer energ y prices posted 
their first increase si nce S eptember. Nevert heless, the twelve-m onth increases 
in both the CPI  and the PCE price index  were sharply lowe r than the ir readings a 
year earlier, held down by  earlier energ y price declines. Excluding  food and 
energ y, the two price m easures have given mix ed sig nals; the twelve-month 
percent  chang e in the core C PI has l eveled off over the past y ear, while the 
twelve-m onth chang e in core P CE pri ces has m oved down not iceabl y. 
The CPI  for energ y turned up 0.9 percent in J anuary . After many  months of 
decline, the spot  price of nat ural gas increased sharpl y from  mid-Decem ber 
throug h early  January  of this y ear—t houg h it was still far below the peak of 
January  2001. As a result, the CPI  for natural g as posted its first siz able g ain 
since May  of last y ear. Althoug h spot price movements reversed some of that 
upturn in February , colder weat her in recent  weeks has eroded t he very  high 
level of g as inventories, once ag ain boosting  spot g as prices; futures quotes 
point to a further modest rise in w holesale and retail natural gas prices in 
coming  months. 
The C PI for el ectricity has fal len for t he past six  months, a trend reflecting  in 
part the pass-through from e lectric utilitie s to c onsume rs of low na tural gas 
input costs. In addition, about half of the January  decline in the electricity  CPI 
reflected dereg ulation of resi dential electricity prices in Tex as. However, fuel 
input costs for electricity  have stopped th eir precipitous decline and in fact have 
recovered somewhat over th e past month or so. 
Finally , the CPI  for g asoline increased 2.7 percent in J anuary  on a seasonally 
adjusted basi s, aft er sharp decl ines in previous months. Contributing  to this 
increase was a jump in retail markups in early  January  from low levels to their 
historical averag e of about 17 cents pe r gallon; by  March, these markups had 
fallen back to about 10 cents. Survey  data point to a slig ht downturn in the 
February CPI for gasoline  but to a  significant inc rease in Ma rch as the jump in 
the cost of  crude oil mor e than offset the drop in r etail ma rgins. 
Consumer food prices increased 0.3 pe rcent in J anuary —driven mainly  by 
increases in the  vola tile fruits a nd ve getables categories—after having poste d 
little chang e in the previous two months . Food prices rose 2.9 percent over the 
twelve m onths endi ng in January , the sam e as in the precedi ng period and j ust a 
little larger than the  increase in the  core CPI. 
The CPI  for commodities other than food and energ y fell 0.3 percent in J anuary . 
The decl ine refl ected heavy  discount ing of clothing  and a fall in motor vehicle 
prices as cash rebat es were i ncreased in siz e and ex tended to more models. 
Prices for core commodities declined 0.8 percent over the y ear ended J anuary , 
II-32
II-33
down from an 0.8 percent increase the previ ous y ear. By contrast, the CPI  for 
non-energ y services rose 0.4 percent in January , a continuation of the pattern of 
sizable increases in this categ ory over the past y ear. The increase of 3.9 percent 
for the twelve months ending  January  was 0.5 percentag e point hig her than the 
rate during  the previous twelve months. Owners’ equivalent rent and tenants’ 
rent both posted slig htly smaller increases  in January  than in the preceding  few 
months; nevertheless, these categ ories were  responsible for much of the step-up 
in servi ce pri ce inflation over the past y ear. 
Core PCE prices rose 0.1 percent in J anuary  and increased 1.2 percent over the 
past twelve months—down about 3/4 percentag e point from the previous 
twelve-month period. As with the CPI , PCE prices for apparel, motor vehicles, 
and several  other com modity categories have decel erated m arkedl y over t he past 
year. Unlike the CPI, however, t he PCE measure of i nflation for core servi ces 
has not  accel erated over t he past  twelve m onths. Part of this difference resul ts 
from the PCE price measure’s incl usion of nonmarket transactions.13 Estima ted 
price inflation on these transactions ha s slowed markedly  over the past y ear. 
Much of t he rem aining difference refl ects differences i n we ights—particularly 
for housing , which is more heavily  weig hted in the CPI  and for which prices 
have accelerated notably . In addition, PC E prices for medical services, which 
are based on producer price index es, have  not moved up as quickly  as the CPI 
for m edical servi ces. 
One-y ear-ahead i nflation ex pectations from  the Mi chigan Survey  edged higher 
for the third consecutive month in F ebruary, after hug e declines in October and 
November. Nevertheless, median ex pected inflation over the nex t twelve 
months of 2.1 percent was still nearly  1 percentag e point below the levels that 
had prevailed throug h last summer. The median of fi ve-to ten-year inflation 
expectations, at 2.8 percent in F ebruary, stood just a little below last summer’s 
levels. 
The producer price index  for capital equipment fell 0.1 percent in J anuary  and 
was down 0.3 percent from a y ear earlier. Computer prices were reported to 
have risen in J anuary  following  several months of larg e declines, but 
smoothing  throug h these movements, the PPI  for computers fell 26 percent 
13. Non market prices  are th ose that are n ot readily  observable in  the marketplace an d 
therefore are n ot measured by  CPIs or P PIs; they are in stead im puted by  the BEA using indirect 
methods. For example, ex penditures b y nonprofit institutions such as ch urches an d private 
foundation s are in cluded in  PCE, an d prices  for these categ ories  are con structed from prices  of 
inputs, in cluding labor costs. Another important categ ory is financial serv ices p rovided without 
explicit ch arge—for ex ample, th e services that depos itors receiv e for unpriced s ervices such as 
free ch ecking—whose price is assu med to vary with banks’ net interest earn ings. This latter 
categ ory accou nts for 1/4 percen tage poin t of the deceleration  in core P CE prices  over the pas t 
year. In total, ou r aggregate of  nonmarket prices  accou nts for abou t 20 percen t of core P CE. 
II-34
II-35
over the twelve months ending  January , com pared wi th a 16 percent  decl ine 
over the previous twelve-month period. 
At earlier stag es of processing , the producer price index  for intermediate 
materials ex cluding  food and energ y was unchang ed in J anuary  and was 
1.8 percent below its level a y ear ag o. The PPI  for core crude materials fell 
1/2 percent in J anuary  and was 9 per cent below a y ear earl ier. Since l ast 
Greenbook, broad-based comm odity  price index es have turned up. The 
Journal of Commerce index of industrial commodity  prices has risen 8 percent. 
A sharp rise in lumber and ply wood pri ces over the past month reflects robust 
constr uction a ctivity , and a jump in ste el scrap prices may  reflect in part strong 
demand in advance of the incr ease i n tariff rat es on st eel. 
Labor  Costs 
Labor costs appear to have decelerated  recently , thoug h different compensation 
measures provide different pictures of the mag nitude of that deceleration. The 
employ ment cost index  for hourly  comp ensation in private industry  increased 
at an annual rate of 4.2 percent ove r the S eptember-to-December period and 
was also up 4.2 percent for 2001 as a whole; the 2001 increase was 
0.2 percentag e point less than the increase during  2000. Both the wag es and 
salaries component and th e benefits component reco rded slig htly smaller 
increases l ast year. Last year’s decel eration in wag es and sal aries was 
concentrated in the g oods-producing  sectors of the economy . Within the 
benefits component, nonproduction bonuses and paid leave rose less rapidly ; 
in cont rast, employer cost s for heal th insurance and workers’ com pensat ion 
accel erated last year.14 
A second measure of labor costs—co mpensation per hour in the nonfarm 
business sector—is derived from data on the val ue of em ployee com pensat ion 
from the national accounts. The four-quart er increase in this measure fell from 
7.8 percent in 2000 to 3.9 percent in 2001. This sharp deceleration contrasts 
starkly  with the small decline in ECI inflation over the same period. The two 
compensation series differ in many  way s, but over the past y ear one difference 
seems especially  relevant. Compensation per hour includes the ex ercise of stock 
options, while the ECI  does not. The deceleration in compensation per hour 
14. With the exception of health  insurance, th e benefits detail is u npublished and is provided 
to us by the BLS on a co nfidential b asis. 
II-36
II-37
II-38
II-39
may indicate that stock op tion ex ercises leveled o ff or declined in 2001 in 
response to the decline in equity  values since mid-2000.15 
For the current quarter, compensati on data are limited to averag e hourly 
earning s for production and nonsupervisory workers. This series increased 
0.1 percent in F ebruary  after a 0.2 percen t rise in J anuary . Over the twelve 
months ending  in February , averag e hourly  earning s increased 
3.7 percent—down from a 4.1 percent increase over the preceding  twelve 
months. 
15. T he 2001 dat a on wage and salary com pensation incorporat e pay roll report s filed with 
state unemployment insurance offices through t he third quarter of 2001. These wage and salary 
data, which reflect among other things a ny taxable distributions from stock option exercises, 
increas ed m ore slowly in the secon d and third quarter of 2001 t han data on average hourly 
earnings m ight have sugge sted. 
(This page intentionally blank.)
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
Domestic Financial Developments
Overview
The economic data released during the intermeeting period were much stronger
than market participants had expecte d.  Reflecting this news, equity prices
rallied and interest rate s on Treasuries and high-grade corporate bonds rose
considerably, while junk-bond yields actua lly declined.  Futures quotes suggest
that market participants now anticipate considerably more tightening than theydid just six weeks ago.
On the whole, credit markets and financial institutions appear to be
accommodating private-sector demands for credit.  Although strains persist in
the commercial paper market, overa ll net borrowing by nonfinancial
corporations has rebounded from the lull in December and January.  On the
household side, the limited ava ilable data suggest that  debt growth remains
relatively strong.
Interest Rates, Policy Expectations, and Stock Prices
Treasury interest rates seesawed early in  the intermeeting period, but by the end
of the period market participants were  convinced that the economy was firmly
on an upward trend, leaving nominal Tr easury yields up about 30 to 50 basis
points, with the largest increases at shorter maturities.
Market participants are almost certain that no policy action will be taken at the
upcoming meeting.  However, a majority of primary dealers believe that theFOMC will move to a balanced assessm ent of the risks facing the economy. 
Futures quotes suggest that market pa rticipants place some odds on the FOMC
tightening policy as early as the May m eeting and see the funds rate climbing to
nearly 3 percent by year-end. 
Broad indexes of stock prices advanced  nearly 6 percent over the intermeeting
period, as the good economic news out weighed accounting worries and a poorer
earnings outlook at several telecommunica tions firms.  The gains were tilted
toward “old economy” firms, with the Dow rising 10-1/2 percent, while the
tech-heavy Nasdaq was about flat.  The gap between the S&P 500 forwardearnings-price ratio and the real yield on high-grade corporate debt, a simple
measure of the equity premium, has widened a bit this year but is still at thelower end of its historical range.
In the corporate bond market, spreads over the corporate AAA yield rose for
BBB investment-grade issuers, reflecting the high proportion of telecom issuers
in this sector.  Yields edged down, howev er, on net for most of the investment-
grade market and actually fell to the lo west level since late 2000 for a broad
index of speculative-grade firms.  Risk spreads in the commercial paper marketremained at elevated levels, as inve stors continued to worry about ratings
downgrades triggered by weak earni ngs, new revelations of accounting 
III-2
III-3
chicanery, and press reports that some  commercial banks we re paring their
backup lines of credit.
Business Finance
Although some companies were shut out of the commercial paper market,
nonfinancial corporations on the whol e tapped bond markets and banks heavily
for financing over the intermeeting period.
Gross issuance of corporate bonds by nonf inancial corporations—especially by
investment-grade firms—rebounded in Fe bruary and strengthened further in
early March.  In contrast, issuan ce of speculative-grade bonds fell from
January’s level, as the two largest industr ies in this market, telecom and energy,
continued to be troubled by  overcapacity and excess le verage.  In early March,
the calendar for new junk-bond issuance perked up. 
Outstanding nonfinancial commercial pa per plummeted 10 percent in February
(not at an annual rate) a nd continued to fall in early  March.  Several companies
that investors perceived as having dodg y accounting practices were shut out of
the CP market, forcing them to tap backup credit lines at banks.  Bank C&I
loans rose briskly over this period, a move  reflecting in part some of these CP
drawdowns.  But the fact that C&I lendi ng also accelerated at small banks,
which are less likely to offer commerc ial paper backup lines, suggests that
underlying demand for business loans may be firming.  On balance, net debt
financing of nonfinancial corporations rose considerably in February from
January’s anemic pace.
Equity issuance, through both IPOs and seasoned offerings, was very weak in
February, although the schedule for co ming weeks shows some signs of a
pickup. Announcements of share repurchas es continued to decline, falling to
about half of last quarter’s pace, as fi rms sought to preserve their cash holdings.
Analysts estimate that earnings of S&P 500 firms will decline in the first quarter
from year-earlier levels, but the magnitude of the fall is expected to be thesmallest since the fourth quarter of  2000.  At the same time, backward-looking
measures of corporate credit quality continued to be weak.  In January, creditrating downgrades outpaced upgrades by a very wide margin, a pace similar to
that of the previous quarter.  The twel ve-month moving average of the rate of
bond defaults remained extremely high in February, while the delinquency rate
on C&I loans at banks worsened further in the fourth quarter of 2001.  Aprivate-sector estimate of future bond defa ult rates based on equity prices stayed
at an elevated level.
Commercial Real Estate Finance
Commercial mortgage debt grew at a 12 pe rcent annual rate in  the fourth quarter
of last year, boosted by record CMBS i ssuance; so far this year, issuance is 
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
1. The CMBS yield indexes were rebalanced on February 1, 2002, resulting on net, 
in reported yields dropping as much as 20 basis points.  The dotted line in the chart panels
indicates this rebalancing effect.
2. However, with the recent increases in market rates, it is likely the mortgage rate this week
(released after the close of Greenbook) will be noticeably higher.  Yields on mortgage-backed
securities rose about 20 basis points in the past week.slightly weaker than at the same time last year.  Sustained investor appetite for
CMBS has kept spreads within th eir range of the past few years.1
Data on commercial mortgage quality indicate some pockets of problems within
a generally favorable overall picture.   Delinquency rate s on CMBS pools have
continued to rise, reaching a four-year hi gh of about 2 percent in February.  By
contrast, the delinquency rates on commercial mortga ges at banks remained
steady in the fourth quarter of last  year and those on mortgages held by
insurance companies continued to trend lower.  The latest  delinquency rates
from both sets of institutions, which to gether account for about 70 percent of
commercial mortgage debt, are very  low by historical standards.
The concerns about terrorism insurance seem to have left only a limited imprint
on the CMBS market.  As noted, risk sp reads in this market have not moved
higher, probably because the vast majo rity of commercial properties in the
United States are located either in the s uburbs, in strip developments, or in less-
frequented parts of cities and are thus viewed by CMBS investors as unlikelytargets for terrorism.  Further, most CM BS deals are backed by a geographically
diversified portfolio of prope rties.  Even CMBS deals backed by relatively large
(but not “trophy”) proper ties in New York City ha ve gone forward since
September 11, albeit at slightly wider sp reads.  The market disruption appears
limited to CMBS issues backed by a single , high-profile property; none of these
single-asset deals have come to market since last fall, and existing deals aretrading at significantly higher spreads or are not trading at all.
Household Finance
Mortgage interest rates have remained more or less flat since the last FOMC,thereby helping to maintain strong  levels of house purchase activity.
2 
Refinancing activity, by contrast, is down from its recent peaks but remains highby historical standards.
Households continued to borrow at a strong pace in the fourth quarter of last
year.  Mortgage debt growth slowed only slightly from its recent highs, to about
a 9 percent annual pace, while consumer debt growth rebounded sharply, to an 
8-1/4 percent annual pace, a move driven in  part by strong growth in automobile
financing.  We expect total household bo rrowing to moderate somewhat in the
first quarter of this year but to remain relatively brisk.
III-8
III-9
III-10

III-11
3. The Treasury reported in late February that it had discovered a series of fraudulent
noncompetitive bids at several auctions; according to market participants, these bids did not have
a lasting effect on the broader markets.Despite last year’s drop in interest rates on loan s to households, rapid debt
growth caused the debt-service burden to hit about 14-1/2 percent in the fourth
quarter, near its mid-1980s peak.  Deli nquency rates for prime borrowers appear
to have risen only slightly, but those fo r subprime borrowers have remained on a
steep uptrend. Although the precise size  of the subprime market is unknown, we
estimate that subprime loans are a sma ll part of total hous ehold debt—perhaps
10 percent or so.
The ratio of household assets to disposab le income is projected to have dipped
slightly in the first quarter, as disposable income growth outpaced that ofhousehold assets.  In allocating these a ssets, households have regained their
taste for corporate equities in recent mont hs.  Net flows into equity mutual funds
averaged about $15 billion per month in January and February, well above the
monthly average for all of 2001.  Further, 401(k) plan participants directed more
of their new contributions toward equ ity funds, and transfers among existing
accounts favored equity funds in January.
Government Finance
The Treasury’s budget position swung to deficit in the intermeeting period,
largely because of normal seasonal vari ations in expenditures and receipts. 
Although such predictions are highly un certain, we believe that total Treasury
debt will come close to, but not breach, its  legal ceiling in late  March, before the
annual flood of revenue arri ves in April.  Although market participants were
surprised that a fiscal stimulus package was enacted, there was reportedly littlenet effect on yields. 
The Treasury’s mid-quarter refunding ope ration included a re-opening of the
five-year on-the-run note, which had been  in short supply in the repo market. 
The Federal Reserve had help ed to satisfy demand for this security by lending
from its portfolio, and the supply crunch va nished quickly after the note was re-
opened.
3
In municipal bond markets, state and lo cal governments borrowed significantly
less money for new capital expenditures in January and February than they did
at the end of last year.  Refunding ac tivity, in contrast, remained elevated in
February as issuers took advantage of continuing low yields.  Although ratings
upgrades outpaced downgrades in 2001, the worsening budgetary positions ofmany state and local governments indicate that credit ratings may deteriorate incoming months.
III-12
III-13
III-14
Banking Sector
Bank credit expanded at a 4 percent rate  in February after posting a slight
decline in January.  Much of the growth in February came from C&I loans,which advanced at about an 11-1/4 per cent rate after a year of considerable
weakness.  
The asset quality of commercial banks continued to deteriorate in the fourth
quarter of 2001.  In partic ular, the delinquency rate for C&I loans increased to
3.5 percent, the highest level since th e third quarter of 1993, and charge-offs
surged to the highest level over the pa st decade.  Although worries about loan
losses led banks to sharply increase their loss provisions, bank profits still rosein the fourth quarter. 
Monetary Aggregates
M2 growth in January and February wa s well below last year’s rapid pace. 
Returns on liquid deposits and money mark et mutual funds have fallen in a
typical lagged response to last year’s drop in short-term intere st rates, reducing
demand for M2 assets.  Households eviden tly perceive as well that M2 holdings
have become less attractive relative to riskier assets, as flows to bond and stock
mutual funds have picked up at the expense of money market funds.  In
addition, the reduced level of mortgage  refinancings in recent months has
contributed to the deceleration of M2.  M3 growth has also slowed this year,reflecting the behavior of M2 as well as  a runoff of institutional money funds as
their yields sagged.  The drop in M3 growth was tempered, however, by a
pickup in issuance of large time deposits by banks.       
III-15
 
(This page intentionally blank.)
 
International Developments
International Developments  
U.S.  International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
In December, the U.S. trade deficit in goods and services was $25.3 billion,
much smaller than in the previous tw o months.  In the fourth quarter, the
nominal deficit was $333 billion at an a nnual rate, about $20 billion smaller than
would have been recorded in the third quarter in the absence of a one-time largeestimated insurance payment by foreign insurers related to the events ofSeptember 11.  The Bureau of Economic  Analysis (BEA) estimates that NIPA
real net exports of goods and services weak ened a bit in the fourth quarter as real
exports fell more than real imports declined.
The value of exported goods and serv ices rose a marginal 0.2 percent in
December.  Even though this was th e third month of increase from the
September low, the level in December wa s still 6 percent less than the average
for July-August.  Goods exports declined  in December (primarily aircraft and
automotive products) while exports of se rvices rose strongly for the second
consecutive month (primarily travel and pa ssenger fares).  For the fourth quarter,
the value of exports dropped 15 percent at an annual rate, with declines recorded
in all major trade categories (except agricultural products) and regions.  BEA
estimates that NIPA real exports of g oods and services fell 12 percent at an
annual rate in Q4.  Services declined at a slightly faster rate than goods.  Exports
of core goods fell 10 percent at an annua l rate.  For the year, real exports of
goods and services declined 10 percent (Q4/Q4).
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
The value of imported goods and services declined 2.9 percent in December to a
level that was 8 percent below the average for July-August.  Goods imports fellover 4 percent in the month, with decreases recorded in all major tradecategories, especially consumer goods.  In contrast, service imports jumped over5 percent in December, a second consecutive month of strong increases (almostentirely travel and passenger fares).  The levels of imports of goods and ofservices in December were each 8 percent lower than their average for July-August.  For the fourth quarter, the value of imported goods and services(excluding the effects of the one-time insurance payment in the third quarter)dropped sharply with notable declines in all major categories of trade–especiallyoil (primarily price), other industrial supplies, and machinery.   BEA estimatesthat NIPA real imports of goods and services fell 7 percent at an annual rate inQ4 as services payments plunged at a 26 percent pace and goods importsdeclined moderately.  Real core goods imports fell 5 percent at an annual rate,and prices of core goods declined at a 3½ percent pace.  For the year, realimports of goods and services declined 8 percent (Q4/Q4).
Prices of Internatio nally Traded Goods
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose 6 percent in January following three
months of steep declines.  The spot pri ce of West Texas Intermediate also rose
moderately in January, a nd has risen more than $4 per barrel since the end of
January to over $24 per barrel–a level not  seen since September.  Factors
generating the price increase include str onger signs of world economic recovery,
production restraint by OPEC , and heightened tensions in the Middle East.
Non-oil imports .  The price of imported non-oil (and core) goods rose slightly
in January, following eleven consecutive monthly declines.  The January
increase resulted from a rise in prices of food imports, particularly vegetables. Prices in other major categories generally showed little change.  In particular,prices for industrial supplies and materials excluding petroleum were unchangedin January after falling for most of the previous year.  Prices of both automotiveand capital goods were down slightly in January, while the index for consumergoods was unchanged.  In January, the price index for imported core goods wasslightly below the fourth-quarter average level, which was down about3½ percent at an annual rate from the third quarter.  The fourth quarter declinewas concentrated in prices of industrial supplies.
Exports .  Prices of U.S. goods exports were little changed in January after
falling for several months.  The price of  exported core goods was up slightly,
reflecting increases in the export prices  of agricultural pr oducts and industrial
supplies.  The price of capital e quipment excluding computers and
semiconductors was also up a bit in Janua ry while export prices of consumer
goods fell.  The January level of the pr ice index for exported core goods was a
IV-6
little below the fourth-quart er level, which was dow n about 3½ percent at an
annual rate from the third quarter.
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
Incoming data for the fourth quarter have confirmed earlier evidence of a
remarkable increase in foreign net purch ases of U.S. securities in 2001.  (See
line 4 of the Summary table of U.S. Inte rnational Transactions.)  In fact, net
inflows for the fourth quarter were at r ecord levels and, for the year, net private
purchases broke through the $500 billion barrier for the first time.  Record
inflows for the year were also regi stered for agency bonds (line 4b) and
corporate and municipal bonds (line 4c).  For Treasury securities (line 4a), large
net purchases in the fourth quarter inte rrupted the sales that had persisted for
most of the past two years; for the year, there were actually modest net
purchases.  This interest in Treasurie s was brief, however, as January saw a
return to net sales; sale s by Japan, alone, totaled $7 billion.  In January, net
purchases of agency bonds also evaporat ed; however, net purchases of corporate
and municipal bonds and corporate stocks continued strong ( lines 4c and 4d).  
It is of some interest to note that a part  of line 4c is attributable to the purchase
and sale of bonds issued by U.S. subsidiari es of foreign firms, some of which are
denominated in foreign currencies and tailo red to foreign investors.  The total of
such issuance was substantial in the last two years.  To the extent that thesebonds are ultimately claims on the foreign pa rent of the U.S. subsidiary, balance
of payments data may ove rstate the degree to whic h foreign investors are
changing their U.S. exposure; similarly, to the extent that U.S. residentspurchase the same bonds, their foreign ex posure can change without any balance
of payments flow.  For U.S. investors this observation is underlined by the fact
that many of these bonds are de nominated in foreign currencies.
The purchase of such bonds by U.S. resi dents may partially explain the net sale
of foreign bonds reported for 2001 in line 5a .  The sales reported in line 5a are in
sharp contrast to the almost $90 billion of foreign equities acquired in 2001 (line
5b plus line 5c).
Capital inflows from foreign official sources slowed to less than $7 billion last
year, compared with almost $40 billion in 2000 (line 1). The decline isattributable to a swing from inflows to outflows by OPEC countries and
industrial countries in Europe. 
Banking positions seesawed throughout  the year, but overall netted only a
modest inflow for the year (line 3).  Di rect investment inflows and outflows for
the fourth quarter and year will be re leased the day after Greenbook and will be
discussed in a Greenbook Supplement.
IV-7
Summary of U.S. International Transactions
(Billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted except as noted)
2000 20012001 2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan.
Official financial flows 39.3 2.0 4.8 -21.3 13.2 5.4 -10.5 5.6
1. Change in foreign official assets
in the U.S. (increase, +) 39.6 6.9 4.6 -20.0 16.8 5.6 -9.7 5.6
a.  G-10 countries 12.3 -7.9 -5.5 -6.1 -5.6 9.2 -4.8 2.9
b.  OPEC countries 10.7 -1.9 .8 -2.1 -4.7 4.1 .5 -2.6
c.  All other countries 16.6 16.8 9.2 -11.8 27.0 -7.7 -5.4 5.3
2. Change in U.S. official reserve
assets (decrease, +) -.3 -4.9 .2 -1.3 -3.6 -.2 -.7 .0
Private financial flows 404.0 n.a. 98.8 175.7    23.5 n.a. ... ...
Banks
3. Change in net foreign positions
of banking offices in the U.S.1-6.7 13.9 -79.4 29.1 -12.2 76.4 -5.2 -22.8
Securities2
4. Foreign net purchases of U.S.
securities (+) 435.7 509.6 149. 0 125.0 73.9 161.7 45.9 13.6
a. Treasury securities -52.4 16.4 .7 -8.5 -9.3 33.4 10.2 -14.6b. Agency bonds 111.9 144.2 38.8 29.4 33.1 42.9 6.7 1.6c. Corporate and municipal bonds 182.1 224.9 68.9 69.6 37.2 49.2 13.1 15.3d. Corporate stocks
3194.0 124.2 40.7 34.5 12.9 36.1 16.0 11.3
5. U.S. net acquisitions (-) of
foreign securities -101.1 -59.3 -21.0 -44.1 19.2 -13.4 -12.2 -1.8
a. Bonds -4.1 30.3 -2.0 8.8 25.4 -1.9 -.9 -5.6b. Stock purchases -13.1 -50.5 -16.4 -18.7 -6.1 -9.2 -8.9 3.7c. Stock swaps
3-84.0 -39.1 -2.6 -34.2 .0 -2.3 -2.3 .0
Other flows (quarterly data, s.a.)
6. U.S. direct investment (-) abroad -152.4 n.a. -40.9 -41.1 -52.1 n.a. ... ...7. Foreign direct investment in U.S. 287.7 n.a. 52.5 65.2 26.4 n.a. ... ...8. Foreign holdings of U.S. currency 1.1 n.a. 2.3 2.8 8.2 n.a. ... ...
9. Other (inflow, + )
4-60.2 n.a. 36.3 38.8 -39.9 n.a. ... ...
U.S. current account balance (s.a.) -444.7 n.a. -111.8 -107.6 -95.0 n.a. ... ...
Capital account balance (s.a.)5.7 n.a. .2 .2 .2 n.a. ... ...
Statistical discrepancy (s.a.) .7 n.a. 8.1 -47.0      58.1 n.a. ... ...
NOTE.  The sum of official and private financial flows, the current account balance, the capital account balance, and the
statistical discrepancy is zero.  Details may not sum to totals because of r ounding.
1.  Changes in dollar-denominated positions of all deposito ry institutions and bank hol ding companies plus certain
transactions between broker-dealers and unaffiliated foreigners (particularly borrowing and lending under repurchaseagreements). Includes changes in custody liabilities other than U.S. Treasury bills.
2.  Includes commissions on securities transacti ons and excludes adjustments BEA makes to acc ount for incomplete
coverage; therefore does not match exactly the data on U.S. international transactions published by the Department ofCommerce.
3.  Includes (4d) or represents (5c) stocks acquired through mergers.4.  Transactions by nonbanking concerns and other banking and official transactions not shown elsewhere plus
amounts resulting from adjustments made by the Department of Commerce and revisions in lines 1 through 5 sincepublication of the quarterly data in the Survey of Current Business
5. Consists of transactions in nonproduced nonfinancial assets and capital transfers.
n.a. Not available.    ...  Not applicable.  
IV-8
Foreign Exchange Markets
The trade-weighted value of the dollar against the major foreign currencies has
declined 1¼ percent on balance since the last FOMC meeting.  Most of the
decline in the major currencies index was due to a sharp appreciation of the yen
in early March.  The yen’s rise late in the period coincided with a dramatic
increase in Japanese equity prices and came amid some reduced uncertaintyabout the government’s readiness to s upport financial market stability ahead of
the Japanese fiscal-year end.    
The dollar also depreciated against most  other major currencies over the period,
but these net depreciations were more modest.  Economic  data releases in the
United States and abroad during the intermeeting period generally reinforcedmarket expectations that the U.S. ec onomy would lead a global recovery and
supported the dollar at historically elev ated levels for much of the period. 
Market participants’ uncer tainty about whether the President’s decision to
impose steel tariffs re flected official con cerns about U.S. competitiveness, and a
change in U.S. policy on the value of th e dollar, may have contributed to the
dollar’s weakness la te in the period.
On balance during the intermeeting pe riod, the dollar depreciated 3 percent
against the yen despite further evidence that the Japanese economy continues to
contract.  For much of the period, the do llar saw little net change against the yen
as movements in the currency pair fl uctuated with market sentiment about
potential policy actions to fight deflati on and support financial markets ahead of
IV-9
Japan’s fiscal-year end.  After disappoi nting markets earlier in the period by
leaving policy unchanged, in late February the Bank of Japan announced an
increase in the amount of its mont hly government bond purchases and a
relaxation of restrictions in its emergency lending facility.  Theseannouncements, as well as a promise to supply liquidity as demanded through
the fiscal-year end, boosted market c onfidence that the government would
prevent a rapid downturn in financial ma rkets.  Japanese equity prices also
appeared to gain from new restrictions on the short selling of equity shares,enacted as part of the gove rnment’s anti-deflation plan.
The dollar depreciated 1¼ percent on bala nce against the euro over the period. 
The Governing Council of the European Central Bank decided to leave its key
policy rates unchanged in m eetings this period.   In its policy decision in early
March, the Council pointed to further si gns that the trough in economic activity
may have been reached at the end of last year.  Stronger-than-expected datareleases on euro-area confidence a nd German orders and production data
supported the euro early in the period, but  subsequent euro-a rea releases were
more mixed. The dollar declined slightly against the Canadian dollar, whichrebounded from near record lows.
Long-term interest rates in most fore ign industrial economies, as measured by
yields on ten-year government bonds, in creased modestly, on balance, over the
IV-10
period since the last FOMC meeting.  After declining in the wake of global
anxieties over corporate accounting practi ces early in the period, movements in
long-term foreign government bond rates were generally positive and
accompanied increases in equity markets.  An exception to this pattern was theten-year Japanese govern ment bond yield, which declined slightly on balance. 
Against the currencies of our other importa nt trading partners, the index of the
dollar’s trade-weighted value was little changed on balance over theintermeeting period.  After an extended government-imposed holiday, foreign
exchange markets reopened in Argentin a on February 11 under a single floating
exchange rate system.  Foreign exchange trading in Argentina remained veryilliquid throughout the intermeeting peri od due largely to on-going government
restrictions on bank withdraw als and tight capital controls.  The peso depreciated
about 20 percent on net against the dollar over the period despite reports that the
Argentine central bank had intervened in foreign exchange markets several times
IV-11
1. The current value of the Argentine peso is 20 percent below the floating rate prevailing at
the beginning of the period when there was a dual exchange rate system in Argentina. The pesohas depreciated 38 percent versus the previous fixed rate of 1.4 pesos/dollar under the dual ratesystem. to damp the peso’s decline.1  Amid increasing political turbulence and capital
flight, the Venezuelan government announced in mid-February that it was
allowing the bolivar to float freely agai nst the dollar, ending the country’s six-
year crawling-peg exchange rate sy stem.  The bolivar depreciated about
15 percent against the dollar over th e period.  There was little perceptible
spillover from either of these currency depreciations to other Latin American
currencies.  The Brazilian real and the Chilean and Mexican pesos appreciated
about 4, 3, and ½ percent, respec tively, against the dollar.  
With the exception of Argentina, equity prices in most emerging market
economies have increased on net since the last FOMC meeting, with gains oftenexceeding those of industrial economy equity  markets.  Share prices in a number
of emerging Asian economies benefitted from data releases showing stronger-than-expected fourth-quarter growth.  Shares prices in Latin America
outside of Argentina also saw substantial gains, with the Mexican and Brazilianstock markets gaining 7 and 14 percent,  respectively.  The Argentine stock
market fell sharply during the initial days of the full peso float and thencontinued to trade at lower levels with in a wide range.  On balance, the
Argentine Merval index fe ll 6 percent over the period. 
           
 .  The Desk did not  intervene during the period for the
accounts of the System or the Treasury.
IV-12
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
In most foreign industrial countries, r eal GDP growth was weak in the fourth
quarter, though more recent indicators suggest that output growth may be
picking up.  Fourth-quarter real GDP c ontracted sharply in Japan and declined
moderately in the euro area.  In th e United Kingdom, fourth-quarter real GDP
was roughly unchanged, afte r several quarters of stead y growth.  In contrast,
Canadian real GDP rebounded from a declin e in the third quarter.  While first-
quarter indicators in Japan suggest c ontinued contracti on, industrial sector
surveys as well as business and consumer confidence point to signs of continued
or renewed growth in the rest of the major foreign industrial economies. 
Inflation picked up in the first two m onths of 2002 in many countries largely
because of increases in food prices.  The twelve-month rate of Canadian
consumer price inflation rose to within  the Bank of Canada’s 1 to 3 percent
target range in January, while retail price inflation in the United Kingdom rose toa rate just above the Bank of England’s 2½ percent target.  Euro-area inflation
picked up to 2.5 percent in February, remaining above the European Central
Bank’s (ECB) target ceiling, partly because  of tax hikes that took effect at the
beginning of the year.  De flation continued in Japan.
Japanese  real GDP dropped 4.5 percent (s.a.a.r.)  in the fourth quarter, the third
consecutive quarterly contraction, bringi ng 2001 Q4/Q4 growth to -1.9 percent. 
The fourth-quarter drop was led by  an eye-popping 40 percent plunge in
business fixed investment, as firms sl ashed capital spending amid a rapidly
deteriorating outlook for corporate profits .  Residential inve stment was roughly
flat, while public investment fell shar ply.  Personal consumption rebounded 8
percent, to end the year only 0.9 percent above its level a year  ago.  Inventories
continued to be drawn down apace, but made a slight positive contribution to
growth.  Both exports and imports c ontinued to tumble, with net exports
subtracting about ½ percen tage point from growth. 
Indicators suggest that the economy continue d to deteriorate in the early part of
this year.  Industrial production fell 1 percent in January.  Core machinery
orders, a leading indicator of business fixed investment, tumbled 15.6 percent in
January following a nearly 8 percent drop during the fourth quarter.  This level
of orders is 22 percent below a year  ago, which bodes poorly for investment
spending. Other data present a more mix ed picture;  shipments of machinery
edged up in January, but remained well be low the average fourth-quarter level. 
Firms continued to draw down inventorie s, with the inventory-to-sales ratio
falling sharply in January to its lowest  level since March 2001.  Residential and
nonresidential building starts rose shar ply in January, albeit from depressed
levels.  Household expenditures also ticked up in January , and new passenger
IV-13
car registrations were up markedly in January and February on average from the
fourth-quarter level. 
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001     
200112001
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 2.3 -1.9 4.1 -4.8 -2.1 -4.5
Total domestic demand 2.2 -1.4 4.9 -3.6 -2.4 -4.2
Consumption .3 .9 7.7 -4.3 -6.7 8.0Private investment 11.0 -10.5 -11.3 3.8 6.2 -34.4Public investment -11.3 -1.3 40.5 -35.4 13.5 -7.8Government consumption 4.1 3.1 4.5 6.4 -1.1 2.8Inventories
2.1 -.1 .1 -.0 -.5 .1
Exports 9.7 -11.8 -6.9 -18.4 -11.3 -10.4Imports 10.7 -9.0 -1.7 -10.0 -15.9 -7.9Net exports
2.1 -.5 -.6 -1.2 .2 -.4
1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Labor market indicators also came in mixed, with the unemployment rate
declining to 5.3 percent in January, alt hough the fall largely reflected a decrease
in the labor force that outweighed a fa ll in employment.  The job-offers-to-
applicants ratio was unchanged at 0.51, its lowest level since March 2000.  Core
consumer goods prices in the Tokyo ar ea (which exclude fresh food but include
energy) were down 0.9 percent in February  from a year earlier.  Wholesale prices
for domestic goods continue to decline at  a significant rate, in part owing to
lower energy prices.  The merchandise trade surplus (customs-clearance basis)widened in January, as declining imports outpaced a drop in exports. 
IV-14
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production1-4.1 -4.3 -2.5 -1.7 1.5 -1.0 n.a.
All-industry index -2.0 -1.9 -.6 .3 1.0 n.a. n.a.Housing starts -2.6 4.4 -2.5 3.0 -5.0 9.0 n.a.Machinery orders
21.1 -5.7 -7.8 14.9 -.5 -15.6 n.a.
Machinery shipments -7.2 -5.3 -4.2 -2.1 2.1 .2 n.a.New car registrations 2.6 1.6 -5.5 .2 3.5 3.0 -2.4Unemployment rate
34.9 5.1 5.4 5.4 5.5 5.3 n.a.
Job offers ratio4.62 .58 .52 .52 .51 .51 n.a.
Business sentiment5-27 -36 -40 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)6-1.3 -1.2 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 -1.2 -.9
Wholesale prices6-.7 -1.0 -1.3 -1.4 -1.4 -1.4 -1.3
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Percent.4. Level of indicator.5. Tankan survey, diffusion index.6. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
On February 27, the government released its anti-deflation pl an.  Overall, the
program contains little in the way of fresh policy initiatives.  The plan calls forthe Financial Services Agency to con tinue to conduct a stricter evaluation of
banks’ loan portfolios, to be completed by the end of March, with the results to
be made public soon thereaf ter.  Banks are also encouraged to aid troubled
borrowers in restructuring loans.  Th e program is noncommitta l about injections
of public funds, saying only that “a ll necessary steps, including capital
reinforcement, will be taken when there is a threat of a financial crisis.”  Theprogram advocates “effective use” of the Banks’ Shareholding AcquisitionCorporation (BSAC), which was recently  established to purchase cross-held
shares from banks and new restrictions on equity short-sellin g to boost Japanese
stock prices.  Measures are to be taken to increase credit to small- and medium-
sized firms, including the use of loan guarantees and expanded lending by public
financial institutions.  The plan also calls on the Bank of Japan to take “bold”
IV-15
monetary policy steps to e nd deflation.  The government  has said that a second
round of measures to boost the economy, including reform of the tax system,
would be announced around June.
The day after the government released its  anti-inflation plan, the Bank of Japan
(BOJ) eased monetary policy, increas ing the monthly amount of outright
purchases of long-term Japanese  government bonds from ¥800 billion to
¥1 trillion.  The BOJ also decided to pr ovide funds flexibly regardless of its
¥10 trillion to ¥15 trillion target range for the outstanding balance of financial
institutions’ accounts held at the central  bank.  BOJ Governor Hayami said that
the balance could exceed ¥20 trillion if  banks' demands for funds increase
towards the fiscal year end on March 31.  In addition, the BOJ said it would
loosen rules concerning collateral in its  market operations and suspend the five-
day time limit on its emergency Lombard-type lending facility between March 1and April 15.  The Lombard- type facility allows banks  to borrow funds at the
official discount rate of 0.1 percent.  In explaining its decision, the BOJ
emphasized its role as lender of last resort in "providing ample liquidity to the
market and preventing systemic risk from materializing."  
In the euro area , economic activity contracted 0.7 pe rcent (s.a.a.r.) in the fourth
quarter of last year, following two qua rters of weak growth.  Consumption
growth remained sluggish at  0.4 pe rcent, and fixed investment declined
3.3 percent, having dropped in every quart er of 2001.  Inventory adjustment was
a drag on the economy for the second stra ight quarter, subtracting 0.8 percentage
points from GDP growth.  Net exports made a small positive contribution togrowth, as imports declined slightly mo re than exports.  Real GDP declined in
all three of the largest euro-area economies; in Germany, real GDP declined fortwo consecutive quarters for the first time since 1993.
Incoming data point to a modest imp rovement in the euro-area economy
beginning in December.  The volume of  German industry orders picked up in
November and jumped over 4 percent in December on strength in both domesticand foreign orders, but gave up about half of December’s gain in January. 
Although euro-area economic sentiment still remains at re latively depressed
levels, it edged up from December to February after declining steadily for a year. In the industrial survey, production ex pectations have also moved up, most
notably from November lows, while  opinions about order books, recent
production trends, and the le vels of inventory stocks  have improved somewhat
less.  The purchasing managers’ indexe s (PMIs) for the euro area have also
improved in recent months.  Although the manufacturing PMI still indicated a
contraction in the sector in February, the index reached its highest level since
last spring, while the service sector PMI recovered to indicate a mild expansion
IV-16
in activity in January and February.  In  the consumer survey, the outlook for the
general economic situation s howed the most improvement.
Euro-Area Real GDP1
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20002200122001
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 2.8 .6 2.1 .3 .8 -.7Total domestic demand 2.2 -.1 -.2 1.2 -.4 -.9Consumption 1.8 1.6 4.1 1.8 .3 .4Investment 3.3 -1.9 -.9 -2.5 -1.0 -3.3Government consumption 1.7 1.8 2.5 1.6 1.1 2.2Inventories
3.1 -.9 -2.8 .4 -.6 -.8
Exports 12.1 -1.8 -.1 -1.8 -1.7 -3.4Imports 11.0 -3.7 -6.1 .3 -4.9 -4.1Net exports
3.6 .7 2.3 -.8 1.2 .2
Memo:
France 3.3 .9 1.6 .8 1.8 -.6Germany 2.5 .0 1.6 .2 -.7 -1.0Italy 2.4 .7 3.5 -.0 .5 -.8
1. Includes Greece as of 2001 Q1.
2. Q4/Q4.3. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Labor market data for the euro area as a whole continue to show only slight
deterioration, as the harmonized unemployment rate edged up to 8.4 percent inNovember and remained at that rate through January.  National statistics showmore pronounced increases in the French and German unemployment rates,while the Italian unemployment rate moved a bit lower.
The twelve-month rate of euro-area consumer price inflation rose to 2.7 percent
in January, but fell back to 2.5 percent in February, according to a preliminaryestimate.  The inflation rate remained above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling for the21
st consecutive month.  The pickup in the rate of inflation early this year largely
reflected higher food prices and increases in indirect taxes, and there is littleevidence that the change-over to euro-denominated currency notes and coin hada major impact on consumer price inflation.  Excluding food and energy prices,
IV-17
the twelve-month inflation rate was 2.5 percent in January.  Producer prices
continued to move lower.
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production1-1.1 -.5 -1.7 -.7 .8 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume .1 .3 -.1 1.2 -.6 n.a. n.a.
Unemployment rate28.3 8.3 8.4 8.4 8.4 8.4 n.a.
Consumer confidence3-1.7 -7.7 -10.7 -12.0 -10.0 -11.0 -9.0
Industrial confidence4-5.3 -10.0 -17.0 -18.0 -17.0 -14.0 -14.0
Mfg. orders, Germany -1.5 -2.6 -1.2 .7 3.7 -2.1 n.a.CPI
53.1 2.5 2.2 2.1 2.0 2.7 2.5
Producer prices53.9 1.7 -.8 -1.1 -.9 -.9 n.a.
M355.5 6.8 8.0 8.0 8.0 7.9 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Euro-area standardized to ILO definition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some cases.3. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries;
Averages of responses to questions on financial situation, general economic situation,                   and purchasing attitudes.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries;
Averages of responses to questions on production expectations, orders, and stocks.
5. Eurostat harmonized definition, 12-month percent change.     n.a.  Not available.
At midnight on February 28, the euro became the sole legal tender throughout
the euro area.  National central banks will continue to exchange their respectivenational banknotes and coins at face value and free of charge for several years
(indefinitely in some countries such as  Germany and Spain).  The value of euro
banknotes in circulation has risen to 85 percent of the total value of all
banknotes in circulation, including the national banknotes issued but not yet
redeemed by national central banks.  The ECB noted that the figure will neverreach 100 percent, “as some national banknotes have probably been lost or
destroyed and others will be kept as souvenirs or collectors’ items.”
IV-18
Real GDP in the United Kingdom  rose 0.1 percent (s.a.a.r .) in the fourth quarter
of 2001, after rising 1.9 percent in the pr evious quarter.  The fourth quarter’ s
growth rate is the lowest since th e second quarter of 1992 when the U.K.
economy was last in recession.  Consumer spending continued to surge in the
fourth quarter, rising 4.6 percent, but was offset by steep declines in investment
spending and exports.
U.K. Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001200112001
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 2.7 1.7 3.0 1.8 1.9 .1
Total domestic demand 3.2 2.5 3.6 2.5 1.5 2.3
Consumption 3.7 4.4 4.3 4.6 4.2 4.6Investment 7.7 -4.6 -12.2 7.6 -6.0 -6.7Government consumption 1.1 2.8 7.7 1.4 1.2 .9Inventories
2-.7 .0 2.1 -2.2 -.3 .5
Exports 10.1 -5.4 8.2 -10.7 -10.6 -7.1Imports 10.6 -2.8 7.2 -7.3 -9.5 -.7Net exports
2-.7 -.7 -.1 -.9 .2 -2.2
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Recent data for the first quarter are mixed.  February data show that consumer
confidence and service sector confiden ce have recovered strongly from recent
lows, and service sector surveys of activ ity have improved.  Housing prices have
continued to rise briskly, as  well.  Retail sales, in cont rast, have declined for the
past two months, suggesting that British consumers may be in the process ofmoderating their spending.  The manufact uring sector conti nues to contract; 
industrial production declined again in  January, but manufacturing business
confidence and activity surveys showed si gnificant improvement in January and
February.  
Notwithstanding the recent slowing in activity, labor market  conditions remain
tight.  The official claims-based unemp loyment rate remained at 3.2 percent in
January, while the labor force survey measure of the unemployment rate rose
IV-19
slightly to 5.2 percent for the three months centered in November.  Both
unemployment rates are near record lows.
The twelve-month rate of retail price in flation (excluding mortgage interest
payments) jumped to 2.6 percent  in January, just above the Bank of England’s
official target of 2.5 percent.  The pic kup in twelve-month infl ation reflects a rise
in food prices and a more muted drop in en ergy prices than recorded a year ago. 
Growth in average earnings dropped to 1.9 percent in December, due to a fall in
year-end bonuses.  The growth in averag e earnings is well below the 4.5 percent
rate (from a year earlier) that the Bank of England believes to be compatible with
its inflation target.
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production -1.1 -1.0 -2.1 -.1 -.3 -.5 n.a.
Retail sales 1.5 1.5 1.3 1.1 -.5 -.3 n.a.Unemployment rate
1
      Claims-based 3.2 3.1 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 n.a.      Labor force survey
25.0 5.1 n.a. 5.2 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence3-.7 -6.0 -24.0 -21.0 -28.0 -13.0 1
Retail prices42.3 2.4 2.0 1.8 1.9 2.6 n.a.
Producer input prices55.2 -2.7 -8.2 -9.9 -6.3 -6.2 -7.3
Average earnings54.7 4.4 3.3 4.3 3.8 1.9 n.a.
1. Percent.
2. Three-month average centered on month shown.3. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expecting output to decrease.
4. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.5. Percent change from year earlier.n.a.  Not available.
In Canada , real GDP grew at a faster-than-expected 2 percent rate in the fourth
quarter, following a small contraction in the third quarter.  Consumption and net
exports together provided much of the impetus behind the rise.  Consumption
increased largely as a result of auto sales motivated by “zero-percent financing.” The strength of the market for new and resale housing al so supported strong
growth in purchases of furniture and house hold appliances.  Net exports rose as a
dramatic drop in imports, mo st apparent in the inves tment-related machinery and
IV-20
equipment sector, more than offset a m oderate decline in exports.  The rise in
consumption and net exports was offset by  a decline in private investment and a
sizable rundown in inventories.  Total i nvestment declined considerably despite
the strength of residentia l construction.  The drop in both investment and imports
was partially an artifact of  an abnormally high third- quarter level resulting from
the purchase of an offshore oil rig.  Investment in computers and office
equipment increased for the first time since the third quarter of 2000.
Canadian Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20001200112001
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 3.5 .9 1.1 .9 -.6 2.0
Total domestic demand 2.7 -.2 .1 3.5 -.3 -3.9
Consumption 3.3 2.3 3.9 1.7 -.7 4.2Investment 3.7 -1.0 -1.7 3.8 8.0 -12.7Government consumption 2.3 2.1 -.3 5.5 1.5 1.6Inventories
2-.4 -1.7 -1.7 .6 -1.6 -3.9
Exports 4.3 -6.0 -6.2 -5.4 -9.2 -3.2Imports 2.1 -8.4 -9.0 -.8 -7.4 -15.6Net exports
21.1 .6 .8 -2.1 -1.2 4.9
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Indicators for the first quarter suggest continued growth.  The February PMI,
which surveys both manufacturing and servi ce sectors, surpassed 50 for the first
time since August 2001, indicating that pur chases were higher than in the
previous month.  Residential housing, an important component of growth in the
fourth quarter, has conti nued to exhibit strength in 2002.  Housing starts in
January were at a level not seen since 1990, and while the number of starts fell in
February, the level remained above that of any other m onth in the past ten years.
The unemployment rate remained unchanged  in February at 7.9 percent.  Labor
market conditions had rec overed somewhat in January, as the unemployment rate
decreased to 7.9 percent from 8.0 percent in December.  With the exception ofDecember, employment has increased steadily, if slightly, in Canada fromSeptember onwards.  The increase in the unemployment rate since the third
IV-21
quarter has been the product of str ong labor force growth rather than
representative of any reducti on in the number of jobs.
The twelve-month rate of consumer price inflation rose to 1.3 percent in January,
after remaining at 0.7 percent for Novemb er and December.  Excluding energy,
the twelve-month inflation rate was 2.2 percent, up from December’s 2.0 percent
largely on account of higher food prices .  The overall rate, however, remained
comfortably within the Bank of Cana da’s 1 to 3 percent target range.
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
GDP at basic prices .3 -.3 .2 .4 .2 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production -.1 -2.1 -1.8 -.2 -.9 n.a. n.a.New mfg. orders 1.2 -3.6 -4.9 2.5 -2.5 n.a. n.a.Retail sales 2.1 -.8 2.4 1.3 1.6 n.a. n.a.Employment .2 -.1 .1 .1 -.1 .5 .0Unemployment rate
17.0 7.2 7.7 7.6 8.0 7.9 7.9
Consumer prices23.6 2.7 1.1 .7 .7 1.3 n.a
Consumer attitudes3113.1 108.0 112.7 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence3131.6 93.0 117.6 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-22
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2001 2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan.
Japan
Trade 49.3 52.8 52.8 46.6 61.1 50.9 60.0
Current account 67.0 97.8 117.2 118.0 132.9 100.7 n.a.
Euro area
Trade126.4 61.5 85.2 104.0 59.0 92.6 n.a.
Current account1-35.0 18.9 20.6 1.1 29.8 31.0 n.a.
Germany
Trade 72.7 94.1 91.4 95.5 64.3 114.3 n.a.Current account -1.3 6.3 31.0 57.6 20.9 14.4 n.a.
France
Trade -.6 .9 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.3 n.a.Current account 1.8 5.5 4.6 3.6 4.8 5.6 n.a.
Italy
Trade 5.7 2.0 15.2 11.9 17.6 16.1 n.a.Current account
1-5.4 9.3 16.2 23.4 16.8 8.5 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -52.0 -46.6 -48.2 -40.7 -48.9 -55.0 n.a.Current Account -26.0 -11.7 n.a. ... ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 43.5 31.1 32.0 28.2 33.3 34.5 n.a.Current Account 22.2 10.2 8.2 ... ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-23
IV-24
IV-25
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Since the last Greenbook, econo mic recovery in emerging  Asia has continued to
take hold.  Much of the region, includi ng Singapore, Mala ysia, Taiwan, and
Indonesia, posted unexpectedly strong real  GDP growth in the fourth quarter;
more recently, there have been reports of  strong growth in industrial production
in several Asian ec onomies.  In addition, recent da ta on exports generally point
to increasing strength in the external sector.  Economic conditions in LatinAmerica, however, remain weak.  The Ar gentine government has implemented a
series of ad hoc  measures to manage the cris is, but the overall policy stance
remains in disarray and economic activity appears to be in free fall.  BothMexico and Brazil posted declines in f ourth quarter real GDP, although recent
monthly data give some cause for optimism. 
Economic news out of Argentina  continues to sugge st profound weakness. 
Industrial output continued to decline in  January, and February auto sales were
almost 50 percent below their year ago le vels.  Confidence is at record lows. 
The January trade balance registered a large increase; exports fell 12 percentover the past year, while imports plunged 56 percent.  Consumer prices rose just
4 percent over the twelve months ended February, notwithstanding the roughly
50 percent devaluation of the currency since January–a nother indication of the
low level of activity.  Wholesale prices  rose 12 percent over the same period.
Argentine authorities have recently loosened controls on bank deposit
withdrawals and announced an offer to sw ap deposits into more liquid long-term
government bonds.  (In early December,  deposit withdrawal s were severely
restricted, and then in mid-January, most bank deposits we re converted into
longer-term CDs, with so me not maturing until 2005.)
In early February, the government ab andoned its month-old dual exchange rate
system, announcing that it would move to a float, but it also tightened capital
and exchange controls, in part by limiting sales of foreign exchange by banks.  Inearly March, the central bank announced th at it would loosen capital controls by
allowing banks to sell dollars, althoug h it remains unclear whether this has
actually occurred.  The peso continued to  depreciate over the intermeeting period
and reached P2.4/$ by mid-March.
In late February, the Argentine gove rnment signed a new revenue-sharing
arrangement with the provinces.  Th e deal removed the minimum floor on
federal transfers to the provinces, allowing transf ers to vary with revenue
collection.  As part of the deal, th e federal government  will assume and
restructure a large part of the roug hly $25 billion worth of provincial debt,
adding to the federal debt burden.  The interest savings from this refinancing
IV-26
implies that the required fiscal adjustment of the provinces will be relatively
limited.  Moreover, the provinces may still issue bonds that can  circulate as a
quasi-currency to finance their deficits.
Approval of the 2002 federal budget qui ckly followed the signing of the
provincial agreement.  The budget calls for relatively minor cuts in spending,
once savings from nonpayment of debt-ser vicing costs are taken into account. 
The budget, however, is based on assumptions  that market participants consider
to be very optimistic.  The government’s fiscal position continues to weaken asrevenues have declined an average of 20 percent over the first two months of
this year.  One positive recent development has been the resumption ofdiscussions between the Argentine gove rnment and the IMF in early March.
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1 -1.9 n.a. -14.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -1.8 -5.4 -4.4 -6.0 -2.8 -3.4 n.a.Unemployment rate
215.1 17.4 ... 18.3 ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -.7 -1.5 -1.1 -1.6 -1.5 .6 4.0
Trade balance41.2 6.3 9.5 n.a. 12.7 15.8 n.a.
Current account5-10.3 n.a. -4.5 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data are released for May and October only.  Figures for Q4 reflect data
for October.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Mexico , output continued to contract in the fourth quarter, with real GDP
declining nearly 1 percent (s.a.a.r.).  However, the recent pattern of monthly
indicators gives some cause for optimism: exports have stabilized, the twelve-month decline in auto production ha s become less severe, and business
confidence has improved.  De spite a nearly 5 percent decline in exports in 2001,
the trade deficit widened only modestly la st year (and the current account deficit
actually narrowed slightly), as weakne ss in imports nearly matched that of
exports.  There was an uptick in consum er price inflation in January, which put
twelve-month inflation a little above the government ’s year-end target of
4½ percent.  This–together with the potential effect on inflation of recent rises in
IV-27
some excise taxes, an increase in s ubway and bus fares, and a substantial
reduction in the subsidy for home elect ricity usage–prompted the Bank of
Mexico (BOM) in early February to tig hten monetary policy, despite the weak
level of activity.  However, in February lower prices for food led to a decline in
the price level, and the twelve-month inflation rate re mained unchanged.
In early February, apparently satisfied  with the tax package passed by the
Mexican congress, S&P raised its fo reign currency bond rating for Mexico one
notch to give the country investment-grade  status.  In justifying its rating, S&P
cited prudent fiscal policy, improve d tax administration, enhanced fiscal
transparency, longer public debt maturities, and higher external reserves.  Justprior to the S&P move, Moody’s, which gr anted Mexico investment-grade status
in March 2000, upgraded its ratings of Mexican bonds by one notch.
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP14.9 -1.5 -1.8 -.9 ... ... ...
Overall economic activity 6.5 -.2 -.5 -.7 -1.0 n.a. n.a.Industrial production 5.9 -3.4 -.7 -1.0 .0 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
22.2 2.5 2.5 2.7 2.8 2.8 n.a.
Consumer prices3 9.0 4.4 6.0 5.2 4.4 4.8 4.8
Trade balance4-8.0 -9.7 -9.4 -10.3 -9.1 -5.7 n.a.
Imports4174.5 168.3 165.5 162.4 161.9 158.1 n.a.
Exports4166.5 158.5 156.1 152.1 152.9 152.4 n.a.
Current account5-18.0 -17.5 -13.2 -23.2 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Brazil , the preliminary estimate of fourth- quarter real GDP showed a decline
of 6.5 percent (s.a.a.r.).  Together with sharp downward revisions to second and
third quarter GDP growth, this brought th e contraction in GDP last year to over
2 percent (Q4/Q4).  The fourth-quarter decline was very surprising in light of
monthly data showing that industria l production rose in November and
December, but the preliminary estimate s hould be viewed with caution, given a
IV-28
historical pattern of large revisions to Brazilian data.  There have been signs of
recovery in consumption spending durin g January and Februa ry.  Retail sales
rose 2 percent (s.a.) in January, and th e consumer confidence indicator was up in
February for the fourth consecutive month.  Recent trade performance has beendisappointing, with the monthly trade surplus shrinking in January and turning todeficit in February.
Inflation has continued to exceed 7 per cent on a year-over-year basis, well over
the 3½ percent midpoint of the inflati on target range set for 2002.  In late
February, the central bank reduced its ta rget for the overnight interest rate
25 basis points, to 18.75 percent.  This is the first rate decrease in about a year. 
Fiscal performance has continued to be strong, with the government’s primary
(non-interest) surplus surpassing 3 percent of GDP in January 2001.
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP14.1 -2.3 -3.3 -6.5 ... ... ...
Industrial production 6.6 1.4 -1.9 -.4 1.3 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
27.1 6.2 6.1 6.9 6.9 6.9 n.a.
Consumer prices36.0 7.7 6.6 7.5 7.7 7.6 7.5
Trade balance4-.7 2.6 6.3 9.2 9.8 7.7 -1.8
Current account5-24.6 -23.2 -16.3 -23.0 -21.4 -13.7 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  “Open” unemployment rate.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
The economic situation in Venezuela  changed notably with a surprise
announcement in mid-February that the c ountry was abandoning its crawling peg
exchange rate regime and allowing its  currency to float.  This announcement
followed weeks of rapid capital outflow and increased pressure on the exchange
rate, reflecting intense political turmoil and falling oil prices.  Along with thenew exchange rate regime, President Chavez also announced changes in this
year’s budget, including more realistic growth and oil price assumptions and a
7 percent cut in spending.  Since being floated, the Venezuelan bolivar has lost
roughly 15 percent of its value agains t the dollar.  Markets have responded
IV-29
favorably to the government’s policy m oves, as reflected in the 350 basis point
decline in spreads on Venezuela’s foreign-currency debt since the
announcement.  The economic and political  situation in Venezuela remains
precarious, nevertheless.  President Chavez is facing rising public opposition
that has manifested itself in calls for his resignation by several military figures,large-scale protest marches, and a wo rk slowdown at the state-owned oil
company.
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1 5.7 n.a. 1.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 n.a. 13.4 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices313.4 12.3 12.7 12.4 12.3 12.3 13.7
Non-oil trade balance4-10.8 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance418.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account513.4 n.a. 3.2 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Korea , recent indicators suggest that activity has continued to improve.  An
auto strike in December distorted the monthly pattern of industrial production in
December and January, but averaging through the two months, production
appears to be rising briskly.  Ov erall production moved up in the December-
January period despite a decline in semiconductor production.  Machinery orders
rose for the third consecutive month in January, and the inventory-to-sales ratio
moved down substantially.  Consumer se ntiment rose in January, staying above
the neutral reading for a second consecu tive month.  Consumer sentiment has
been supported by the continued decline of the unemployment rate over the past
year, despite the slowing of economic  growth.  In January, twelve-month
consumer price inflation moved below the mid-point of the Bank of Korea’s
2 to 4 percent target range for the first time in a year.
IV-30
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Real GDP15.2 n.a. 5.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 16.9 1.7 1.0 2.2 2.1 -1.5 3.4Unemployment rate
24.1 3.7 3.6 3.4 3.5 3.3 3.2
Consumer prices32.8 3.2 4.2 3.3 3.4 3.2 2.6
Trade balance416.9 13.4 9.7 7.8 11.5 4.6 23.5
Current account512.2 8.6 4.1 4.2 8.9 .2 3.9
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Recent reports from the ASEAN  countries have shown unexpectedly strong
fourth-quarter real GDP growth figures.   Malaysia and Sing apore, two of the
countries hardest hit by last year’s sl owdown in global high-tech demand, led the
way, with Malaysian real GDP up more th an 7 percent (s.a.a.r .) and Singapore’s
GDP up 5.6 percent.  Part of the strength  in growth can be attributed to the
effects of fiscal stimulus packages and monetary easing in much of the regionlast year, and personal consumption expe nditure has held up in some of the
region’s economies despite rising unemployment.  The industrial production
numbers for the fourth quarter were also  up, although, they were generally not as
strong as the GDP figures.  Singapor e posted a staggering 19.1 percent (s.a.)
increase in industrial production in January, and production also rebounded in
Malaysia.
Monthly data indicate that trade surplu ses have grown quite  substantially in
Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore since November.  For the latter two
countries, the growing trade surpluses re flected increased exports, but exports of
electronics did not grow as quickly as  exports of other goods.  Outside of
Indonesia, inflation is not an issue in the region.  In fact, prices fell last year in
Singapore, and registered only small increases in Malaysia and Thailand,
reflecting weak demand.  In the Ph ilippines, which has now officially
implemented an inflation targeting regime, February’s inflation figure was thelowest in almost two years and was well below the 5 to 6 percent target range.
IV-31
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 7.3 1.2 -1.4 3.4 ... ... ...
Malaysia 6.4 -.9 1.5 7.1 ... ... ...Philippines 3.9 3.8 4.3 3.9 ... ... ...Singapore 11.4 -6.4 -10.5 5.6 ... ... ...Thailand 3.1 n.a. .9 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia311.6 .7 -1.9 .3 1.6 -6.2 n.a.
Malaysia 19.1 -4.1 1.2 -.5 1.8 -3.6 2.2Philippines 14.9 -.4 -.5 4.7 3.4 -.3 n.a.Singapore 15.3 -11.5 -8.5 4.5 8.2 -12.4 19.1Thailand 3.2 1.3 .3 3.3 1.1 -1.9 -.5
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Indonesia 28.6 25.2 27.8 25.8 23.2 24.6 27.9
Malaysia 16.0 14.4 15.0 13.0 11.4 14.6  19.2Philippines 6.7 2.6 -.1 5.9 6.2 5.4 n.a.Singapore 3.3 5.8 4.7 6.5 8.4 9.0 16.4Thailand 5.5 2.5 3.7 2.7 1.9 4.6 .1
n.a.  Not available.
IV-32
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20001200112001 2002
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Indonesia 9.3 12.5 12.8 12.6 12.5 14.4 15.1
Malaysia 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.2Philippines 6.7 4.1 6.4 4.7 4.1 3.8 3.4Singapore 2.1 -.6 .8 -.2 -.6 -1.1 n.a.Thailand 1.4 .8 1.7 1.1 .8 .8 .3
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available.
In China , recent indicators point to continue d growth.  Industrial production was
up sharply in January, and retail sales increased nearly 10 percent from a year
earlier.  Consumer prices declined in Ja nuary and were flat in February.  Exports
and imports in the first two months of  the year were bot h well above fourth-
quarter averages.  In recent months, the government has begun to reduce theamount of fiscal stimulus; fixed asset i nvestment by state-ow ned enterprises was
up about 10 percent in November and D ecember from a year earlier, well below
the average of about 15 percent for 2001.  Foreign direct investment has
continued to support growth; inflows of foreign direct inve stment were up about
one third in January over the same m onth last year, and contracts on future
inflows of foreign direct inves tment were up nearly 50 percent.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP18.0 7.5 7.1 7.1 ... ... ...
Industrial production211.4 8.9 8.5 8.5 8.7 18.6 n.a.
Consumer prices21.5 -.3 .8 -.1 -.3 -1.0 .0
Trade balance324.1 23.1 9.1 34.2 37.4 42.4 55.4
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.     ...  Not applicable.
IV-33
Data received since the last Greenbook suggest that economic conditions in
Hong Kong  remain weak.  Real GDP contract ed 0.8 percent (s.a.a.r.) during the
fourth quarter, and the unemployment ra te increased to 6.7 percent in the
November-to-January period, the highest level on record.  An  index of retail
sales volume was down slightly in December, following a small increase inNovember.  Exports were down nearly 6 percent in January and imports were
roughly flat, leading to a large decline in the trade balance.  Consumer prices fell3.4 percent over the twelve  months ended January. 
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Real GDP16.9 -1.8 1.2 -.8 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate25.1 4.9 5.3 6.1 5.8 6.1 6.7
Consumer prices3-2.1 -3.5 -1.0 -2.1 -1.4 -3.5 -3.4
Trade balance4-11.0 -11.4 -13.0 -7.6 -9.8 -4.5 -15.5
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
Indicators released over the past mont h point to a rebound in economic activity
in Taiwan .  Real GDP surged 10.3 percent (s .a.a.r.) in the fourth quarter,
reflecting a brighter global environm ent, a snapback from disruptions in
September, and electi on-related spending. I ndustrial production was up
3.9 percent (s.a.) in January, after two months of declines.  Consumer prices
were up slightly in February from th e previous month, as improved consumer
sentiment and Chinese New Year both fueled consumer demand.  An
improvement in the external sector was al so evident, as exports and imports both
increased in February.
IV-34
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP13.9 -1.8 -5.2 10.3 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate23.0 4.6 4.9 5.3 5.4 5.4 n.a.
Industrial production 7.4 -7.3 -2.1 1.4 -1.5 3.9 n.a.Consumer prices
31.7 -1.7 .0 -.6 -1.7 -1.7 1.4
Trade balance48.3 15.7 14.2 21.1 21.7 26.6 28.1
Current account58.9 19.0 18.0 28.2 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.