Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 5/20/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                December 3, 2003
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                   December 3, 2003
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
1. Beginning in June, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) has begun to seasonally adjust
the data from the establishment survey on a conc urrent basis by reestimating seasonal factors for
the three most recent months with each monthly releas e.  As a result, revisions to the data for the
two preceding months reflect not only additional reports from establishments but also newseasonal factors.  In the October report, the revision to the level of payroll employment in
August was quite large, with the bulk of th e change resulting from new seasonal factors. 
Because data for previous months were not revised, the reported change  in employment in
August is distorted, although the level  reflects the most current information on seasonal patterns.
2. The October employment figure was boosted by an increase in employment in the retail
food and beverage industry caused by the strikes and lockouts in Southern California and St.
Louis.  The BLS estimates that, on net, these labor disputes added 15,000 to 20,000 to payroll
counts because both workers on strike or lock ed out and their replacements were on some
establishments’ payrolls during the survey reference week.Domestic Nonfinancial Developments
Overview
Real GDP appears to be advancing at a solid rate in the current quarter—albeitwell below its torrid third-quarter pace.  Consumer spending began the quarteron a flatter trajectory, but equipment and software spending and residentialconstruction have continued to surge.  Meanwhile, the labor market finallyseems to be on the mend, and activity in the industrial sector has continued toimprove in recent months.  Core consumer price inflation has remainedquiescent:  The twelve-month change in core CPI prices was 1.3 percent inOctober, almost 1 percentage point less than the increase during the comparableperiod one year earlier.
Labor Market Developments
The labor market improved in September and October, and the weekly data oninsured unemployment suggest that the improvement was sustained inNovember.  Total nonfarm payroll employment was estimated to have risen126,000 in October and 125,000 in September, much more than previouslyreported.
1  Private payroll employment posted solid gains of 117,000 and
116,000 in September and October, respectively, and the average workweek ofproduction or nonsupervisory workers moved up 0.1 hour, to 33.8 hours, inOctober.
2  Aggregate hours of production or nonsupervisory workers rose
0.4 percent in October and now stand at their highest level since January.  
Indicators from the household survey were also generally brighter.  The
unemployment rate ticked down to 6.0 percent in October.  The declines inunemployment in October were widespread, with the sharpest drop recordedamong those aged 16 to 19.  The number of short-term job losers, as a percent ofhousehold employment, fell in October to a level just below the readings seen atthe start of the year, and the contribution of the long-term unemployed to theoverall unemployment rate edged down.  The labor force participation rate heldsteady at 66.1 percent in October.   
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
Since the reference week for the October labor market surveys, the four-week
moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance has droppedsubstantially—to 359,000 in the week ending November 22, the lowest levelsince February 2001.  Moreover, the four-week moving average of insuredunemployment fell to 3.45 million in the week ending November 15, the lowestlevel since March.  The proportion of unemployment insurance recipients whoexhausted their benefits also declined significantly in October; the decrease suggests that some of the decline in insured unemployment reflects a step-up inthe pace of hiring, although we hesitate to make much of one month’smovement of this volatile series.
Recent indicators of labor demand by businesses have also become a little more
positive since the last Greenbook.  Layoff announcements edged down a bit inNovember after October’s rise.  The National Federation of IndependentBusinesses survey of small businesses showed that hiring plans in October andNovember were above the depressed levels observed earlier this year, but theOctober Help Wanted Index remained unchanged for the third consecutivemonth.  Households participating in the Conference Board survey reported animprovement in current labor market conditions in October and November afterthree years in which they had seen them deteriorate, on balance.
According to the BLS, productivity in the nonfarm business sector soared at an
annual rate of 9.4 percent in the third quarter, more than a percentage pointhigher than the estimate in the preliminary release.  Over the four quartersending last quarter, productivity is estimated to have advanced 5.0 percent aftera 6.1 percent rise over the comparable period one year earlier.  The BLS report 
Labor Output per Hour
(Percent change from preceding period at compound annual rate; seasonally adjusted)
2002 2003
Sector 2001 Year Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
Total business 3.2 4.2 1.5 2.7 7.4 8.6    Nonfarm business 3.2 4.4 1.7 2.1 7.0 9.4  
Previous3.2 4.4 1.7 2.1 7.0 8.1
    Manufacturing 3.4 5.2 0.4 5.8 2.8 9.0
    Nonfinancial 
corporations
14.2 4.4 3.8 3.4 8.4 9.2
    Note.  Annual changes are from fourth quarter of preceding year to fourth quarter of year shown.
    1. Nonfinancial corporate sector includes all corporations doing business in the United States except
banks, stock and commodity brokers, and finance and insurance companies; the sector accounts for about
two-thirds of business employment.
II-6
II-7
3. The annual revision of industrial produc tion, capacity, and capacity utilization was
published in November.  The revision, which principally affected data beginning in 2000, did notmaterially alter the picture of the industrial sect or in recent years; the average increases in both
output and capacity from the final quarter of 1999 to the present were little different from theearlier estimates. Consequently, estimates of cap acity utilization were revised very little.  Among
broad industries, production in the high-tech i ndustries was revised up; the production of other
durable goods was little changed; and the output  of nondurable goods producers was weaker than
previously estimated.  The dates of both the peak (June 2000) and the trough (December 2001)of the last production cycle were unchanged.also included the first estimate of output per hour in the nonfinancial corporate
sector for the third quarter.  Productivity in this sector rose at an annual rate of9.2 percent last quarter and has advanced 6.2 percent over the four quartersended 2003:Q3, similar to the rise posted over the previous four-quarter period.
Industrial Production
Activity in the industrial sector has continued to improve in recent months.
3  In
the third quarter, industrial production (IP) expanded at an annual rate of4.0 percent, and, aside from motor vehicles and parts, the momentum continuedin October.  Production gains have become increasingly widespread in recentmonths, and the diffusion index of three-month percent changes in IP has nowregistered above 50 percent for four months in a row.  Nevertheless,considerable slack remains among manufacturing industries, and the factoryoperating rate stands just one percentage point above the 20-year low reached inMay.
High-tech production accelerated in the third quarter, expanding at the fastest
pace since the middle of 2000, and production gains in October continued at arapid clip.  In particular, the production of semiconductors and relatedequipment rose at an annual rate of more than 60 percent in the third quarter. With the sharp increase in production, capacity utilization at chip plantsapproached 90 percent in October; industry analysts expect this rate ofutilization, if sustained, to induce additions to productive capacity.  Indeed, thethree-month moving average of orders for semiconductor manufacturingequipment jumped more than 10 percent in October and was up nearly25 percent from its mid-year level.   By contrast, capacity utilization forelectronic components such as printed circuit boards—which account for40 percent of the broad semiconductor and related equipment aggregate, and forwhich production is increasingly being moved abroad—continued to languish. Elsewhere in the high-tech sector, production of computers and peripheralequipment as well as communications gear posted solid gains in October.
Forward-looking indicators for the high-tech sector have been positive.  For
semiconductors, Intel’s revenue projections are consistent with another increasein production in the fourth quarter; for PCs, the latest projections by Gartner call 
II-8
II-9
II-10
4. New orders for communications equipment in creased at a monthly rate of 23.1 percent
in October on the heels of a 15.2 percent gain in September.  The magnitude of the September-October increase was likely overstated because the orders figures appear to reflect outliers in
some large companies’ reports.  Our contact at Census says that the September and Octobergrowth rates are likely to be revised downward to  some extent in this Friday’s M3 release.for PC sales to climb in the fourth quarter; and for communications equipment,
the November diffusion indexes of planned future spending compiled by CIO
Magazine  remained in the region associated with increased outlays, and new
orders surged in September and October.4  In addition, anecdotal reports on the
high-tech sector from the Beige Book and our business contacts have improved. 
Motor vehicle assemblies in November are estimated to be about even with the
October level of 12.2 million units and thus likely contributed little to thechange in IP last month.  Looking ahead, motor vehicle assembly schedulescurrently call for production to fall in December to an 11-1/2 million-unit pace. For the fourth quarter as a whole, scheduled assemblies are down 1/4 millionunits from the third-quarter level of 12-1/4 million units.
Production of Domestic Autos and Trucks
(Millions of units at an annual rate except as noted; FRB seasonals)
Item 2003 2003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q41Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov.
U.S. production 12.3 11.8 12.3 12.0 11.8 13.0 12.2 12.2
Autos 4.7 4.4 4.6 4.5 4.3 4.9 4.5 4.7Trucks 7.6 7.3 7.7 7.5 7.5 8.1 7.6 7.5
Days’ supply
274 70 62 n.a. 55 67 75  73e
Inventories33.01 2.96 2.88 n.a. 2.76 2.88 3.04 3.07e
Note. Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1. Production rates reflect Ward’s Communications’ latest estimates for Q4. 2. Quarterly values calculated with end-o f-period stocks and average reported sales;
excludes trucks in classes 3-8.
3. End-of-period stocks; excludes trucks in classes 3 to 8.
    n.a.  Not available.
e   Staff estimate.
In the energy sector, the output of utilities rose 2 percent in October, and weekly
electricity generation data suggest that output increased further in November.While unseasonably warm weather likely contributed to the October rise, therecent gains in utilities output represent more fundamentally a return to trendfollowing the dip in the second quarter.  By contrast, mining output fell
II-11
1 percent in October, as a large decrease in the production of crude oil more
than offset gains in natural gas extraction.
New Orders for Durable Goods 
(Percent change from preceding period except as noted; seasonally adjusted)
ComponentProportion,
2003: H1
(percent)2003
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Annual rate Monthly rate
Total orders 100.0 -.8 17.0 -.1 2.1 3.3
Adjusted orders175.0 -3.3 16.7 -1.0 3.7 2.5
Computers and peripherals 4.0 65.1 25.8 1.5 -.6 -.3 Communication equipment 4.0 -31.2 80.0  -1.7 15.2 23.1Other capital goods 24.0 1.0 7.5 -.3 5.6 -1.8Other
243.0 -7.9 16.5 -1.6 2.2 3.0
Memo:
Real adjusted orders     . . . -1.7 17.3 -.9 3.6 2.5
Excluding high tech    . . . -4.3 10.6 -1.6 3.1 1.0
1. Orders excluding defense capital goods, nonde fense aircraft, and motor vehicle parts.
2. Primary metals, most fabricated metals, most stone, clay, and glass products, household
appliances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods.
. . .  Not applicable.
Among the various IP market groups excluding energy, motor vehicles and
parts, and high-tech, the production of  consumer goods edged down, mostly as a
result of weakness in foods, tobacco, and chemicals.  Output of businessequipment also moved lower, with the decline wholly the result of a plunge inthe production of farm machinery:  John Deere temporarily closed some plantsto help trim excessive dealer inventories.  However, production of constructionand business supplies and of materials posted solid gains.
The forward-looking indicators of near-t erm production suggest that the recent
expansion in activity in the industrial sector will accelerate in coming months. In November, the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) index of new ordersjumped to 73.7, its highest level in almost 20 years.  The staff’s series for realadjusted orders for durable goods increased again in October, and the three-month moving average rose 1.7 percent.  Moreover, announced manufacturinglayoffs declined significantly in November after having jumped in October.
II-12
II-13
5. Light trucks consist of classes 1 through 3 and include SUVs, vans, pickup trucks, and
small box trucks.  Trucks are defined roughly by their weight in classes that run from 1 for thelightest to 8 for the heaviest.  After the upcoming revision to the NIPAs, the BEA will change itsdefinition of a light truck to include classes 1 through 3.  Currently, the BEA defines light trucks
as only classes 1 and 2.  Sales of class 3 truc ks have averaged about 100,000 units (annual rate)
per month this year.
6. According to confidential data from motor vehicle manufacturers, fleet sales rose more
than 250,000 units (annual rate) in November, to the highest level in more than 2-1/2 years. 
7. Changes in model-year sales shares are not  well captured by the seasonal factors for total
incentives.Motor Vehicles
Sales of automobiles and light trucks were 16-3/4 million units (annual rate) inNovember, following sales of 15-1/2 million units (annual rate) in October.
5  All
the major manufacturers reported gains in November, and sales at GeneralMotors were up 1/2 million units (annual rate).
6  Purchases of both autos and
light trucks rose briskly.  Sales moved higher last month even though incentiveswere up only modestly, a development suggesting that the drag on demand fromthe third-quarter surge in sales may be waning.  Consistent with this outlook, theMichigan Survey’s index of car-buying attitudes jumped in November to thehighest level in almost two years.
As measured by J.D. Power and Associates, incentives in October and
November were below their August peak.  In part, this stepdown may reflect afaster-than-usual increase in the sales share of 2004-model-year vehicles, whichgenerally carry smaller incentives, in the PIN data.
7  In November, however,
incentives on 2004-model-year light vehicles moved noticeably higher, drivenpartly by GM’s push to maintain market share. 
Consumer Spending
Consumer spending slipped a little, on balance, in September and October afterhaving soared at an annual rate of 9.3 percent in the July-August period.  Muchof the recent weakness was the result of a pullback in sales of motor vehicles;
elsewhere, expenditures were flat in September and rose modestly in October. Looking ahead, spending should be supported by the recent uptrend in the labormarket, continued impetus from the tax cuts enacted last summer, and currentlevels of wealth and consumer confidence that are considerably above theirvalues earlier this year. 
Real consumer spending on goods excluding motor vehicles increased in
October after having fallen in the previous month.  Outlays for durables apartfrom motor vehicles rose 0.7 percent in October, and expenditures fornondurable goods moved up 0.3 percent.  Spending on non-energy servicesposted solid gains in both September and October.  More recently, anecdotalevidence and weekly data on chain store sales suggest that the holiday shoppingseason got off to a good start, in line with retailers’ expectations; that said, sales 
II-14
II-15
II-16
II-17
around the Thanksgiving holiday have not proven to be a reliable barometer of
overall holiday spending. 
Real disposable income advanced 0.4 percent in October.  Nominal income
before taxes posted its largest increase since June; with PCE prices essentiallyunchanged, this increase translated into a considerable gain in real personalincome.  In addition, personal taxes were little changed in October following thedramatic swing induced by the advance payments of the child tax credit in thesummer.  The ratio of net worth to disposable personal income was aboutunchanged in the third quarter owing to sizable gains in both income and wealth.
Both the Michigan Survey Research Center’s index of consumer sentiment and
the Conference Board index of consumer c onfidence rose sharply in the past two
months, and each index now stands well above its March low.  The recentupturn in both measures is due to gains in consumers’ assessments of currentand expected economic conditions; both surveys also noted a more favorableemployment outlook.
Housing Markets
Housing demand surged in October as fixed-rate mortgage rates edged below6 percent again and the labor market strengthened.  In the single-family sector,new homes were started at an annual rate of 1.62 million units in October, arecord high.  Permit issuance—adjusted for activity in areas where permits arenot required—and the backlog of unused permits suggest that single-familystarts will remain elevated in coming months.  Sales of existing single-familyhomes in October were at an annual rate of 6.35 million units, only a bit belowthe record set the month before; the pace of new home sales in October was alsoquite brisk, albeit down 3-1/2 percent from September.
In the multifamily sector, starts moved down to an annual rate of 343,000 units
in October, in line with the average pace during the past two years.  However,the ratio of permits to starts was a bit above its historical level, a developmentwhich suggests that multifamily starts may increase somewhat in the next fewmonths.
Other indicators also point toward a robust pace of housing activity in the fourth
quarter.  Rates on both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages have reversedsome of their summer run-up, and consumer attitudes toward homebuying, asmeasured by the Michigan Survey, improved in November.  Furthermore, theMortgage Bankers Association’s index of purchase applications remained at ahigh level.
House prices continue to post sizable increases, with some measures showing
that prices are accelerating and others suggesting some deceleration.  Both themedian price of existing homes and the quality-adjusted price of new homes 
II-18
II-19
appear to have accelerated.   However, the median  price for existing homes can
be heavily influenced by composition shifts, and the quality-adjusted price ofnew homes covers only a small portion of the overall housing market.  Incontrast, the repeat-sales price index—which probably provides the best readingon prices for the housing market as a whole—has decelerated modestly since themiddle of 2001, to a 5-1/2 percent increase during the year ending last quarter.  
Equipment and Software  
Real business outlays for equipment and software shot up at an annual rate of18-1/2 percent in the third quarter, the fastest pace since 1998, with robustincreases posted in all of the major spending categories except aircraft. Spending on high-tech equipment and software rose at an annual rate of20 percent for the second consecutive quarter, and outlays on motor vehiclesand equipment outside the transportation and high-tech sectors took off.  Thesegains suggest that businesses have begun to respond to the recent increases inbusiness output and corporate cash flow and to the decline this year in the usercost of capital.  Nonetheless, anecdotal evidence from the Beige Book and ourbusiness contacts, as well as private surveys of business confidence, have notimproved as dramatically as the fundamentals, a puzzling development that mayreflect a  focus by businesses on the level  of investment, which is still well
below its 2000 peak.
In the high-tech sector, nominal shipments of computing equipment climbed
4.8 percent in October, and shipments of communications equipment moved up2.7 percent.  Taken together with the upward trend in orders for these categories,the October data put real outlays for high-tech equipment on a solid footing foranother sizable increase in the fourth quarter.  In addition, earnings guidancefrom major software vendors indicates that software spending is likely toexpand at a strong pace in the fourth quarter following its rise of 18 percent inthe third quarter.  Shipments apart from high-tech and aircraft inched down inOctober, with a fallback in the measuring and controlling devices subcategorymore than accounting for the decline.  Bookings apart from high-tech andaircraft dropped 1.8 percent in October, a decrease that only partially reversedthe sharp rise in September.  Nevertheless, new orders have been trendingupward since the beginning of the year, suggesting ongoing gains in spending inthis category.
Business demand for motor vehicles has edged higher in recent months.  Fleet
sales of autos and light trucks ticked up in October and rose further inNovember, and orders for medium trucks (classes 5 to 7) remained high.  Incontrast, orders for heavy trucks (class 8) have moved lower, on balance, sincelate summer, but manufacturers believe that this decline represents only a 
II-20
II-21
II-22
II-23
8. The drop in orders is due at least pa rtly to capacity constraints at two major
manufacturers.  These manufactur ers are still producing engines that are not in compliance with
the EPA’s new standards that went into effect  in October 2002.  (One producer was temporarily
exempted, while another continued production but paid government-imposed fines.)  As ofJanuary 1, 2004, both producers have agreed to make engines under the new EPA standards.temporary lull.8  Part of their optimism reflects industry estimates that the
overall age of the current fleet is close to six years, almost twice the historicalnorm; in addition, manufacturers suggest that the utilization rate of the currentfleet is well above the maximum recommended rate of 89 percent.  In contrast,real business outlays on aircraft last quarter dropped to the lowest level in nineyears.
Nonresidential Construction
The extended contraction in spending on nonresidential construction, which hasreduced outlays by about 25 percent, appears to be ending.  In the office sector,nominal spending edged up in September and October as the year-over-yeardeclines in office construction continued to moderate.  Nevertheless, rents fellagain in the third quarter, and vacancy rates remained high in the office sector,which suggests that the level of activity in this sector is unlikely to improvemarkedly in the near future.  Outlays for the construction of other commercialbuildings (such as those for retail and wholesale establishments) moved lower inSeptember and October as rents for retail space were about flat and rents forwholesale space continued to slide during the year ending last quarter. Spending on institutional buildings (such as schools, churches, and hospitals)has flattened out a bit in recent months but still appears to be on a solid uptrend.
In the smaller subsectors of nonresidential construction, a sharp October drop in
spending mostly offset recent gains.  The pace of construction of industrialbuildings remained extremely slow in October, and, with capacity utilizationamong manufacturers still at very low levels, construction spending in thissector will likely remain quite low in coming months.  Outlays for hotels andmotels remained depressed in October, but they appear to have bottomed outearlier this year.  Elsewhere, the reported increase in active drilling rigs throughNovember suggests that outlays for drilling and mining structures are increasingat a robust pace so far this quarter.
Business Inventories 
Real nonfarm inventories excluding motor vehicles fell at an annual rate of$9.9 billion in the third quarter after having declined $24.4 billion in the secondquarter.  The diminished pace of liqui dation contributed about 1/2 percentage
point to the increase in real GDP in the third quarter.  Manufacturers ran offstocks in each month of the quarter, reducing inventories even more than in thepreceding quarter.  However, manufacturers of durable goods appear to bebetting on stronger demand going into the current quarter; they built up stocks 
II-24
II-25
II-26
II-27
for the first time this year in October, with the increase concentrated in goods at
the early stages of processing.  Wholesalers and retailers (excluding motorvehicles and parts dealers) built up inventories in the third quarter.  Still,inventory-sales ratios in all three categories declined a bit further last quarter.
Days’ supply in the staff’s flow-of-goods system moved up in October for the
second consecutive month as a result of a surge in the supply of motor vehiclesand parts.  Excluding motor vehicles and parts, the inventory-consumption ratiowas essentially unchanged and remained at a record low.  Among the variousindustries, only paper, communications equipment, and to a lesser extentelectrical equipment appear to have elevated inventory-consumption ratios.
Federal Government Sector
Higher defense spending and the income tax cuts enacted under the Jobs andGrowth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act continue to put upward pressure on thefederal unified budget deficit.  Adjusted for payment timing shifts, the federaldeficit was about $63 billion in October, up about $9 billion from the yearbefore.  Adjusted outlays were about $14 billion higher than last year; the risewas fueled by sharp increases in defense spending and agriculture payments, aswell as by a $5 billion payment to the states for emergency fiscal relief.  Lastspring’s tax cuts held the increase in adjusted receipts at about 4 percent,substantially less than nominal income growth.  In particular, individual incomeand payroll taxes were just 1 percent higher than the level recorded last October.
On the legislative front, the Congress passed a continuing resolution that will
fund the government through January 31, 2004.  To date, six of the thirteenappropriations bills for fiscal 2004 have been passed, and the remaining sevenbills will likely be combined into an omnibus bill for consideration before theDecember recess.  The Congress has passed a Medicare reform bill, estimated tocost about $395 billion over ten years.  The bill institutes a voluntaryprescription drug benefit and makes a number of other important changes to theMedicare program.  Although the prescription drug program does not begin until2006, several provisions of the bill will have budgetary consequences beforethen.  In particular, the bill provides subsidies for drug purchases for low-income beneficiaries in 2004 and 2005.  The bill was also used as a vehicle toraise payment rates for certain Medicare providers (for example, physicians and rural hospitals) for whom current rates were viewed as unduly low.  TheCongressional Budget Office estimates the cost of the bill at $4 billion in 2004and $6-1/2 billion in 2005.
State and Local Governments 
Real purchases by state and local governments rose 2-1/4 percent in the thirdquarter after having been flat in the firs t half of the year.  Most of the third-
quarter strength was in construction.  For the fourth quarter, the availablemonthly indicators of spending point to a further increase.  Construction put in 
II-28
II-29
place, which is available only in nominal terms, rose 1 percent in October, a
move that continues the string of advances seen since April.  In addition, stateand local employment increased 35,000 in October after having trended downfor seven months.
A number of recent surveys suggest that the fiscal position of most states is
improving but that city finances still appear to be deteriorating.  The RockefellerInstitute reported that state tax receipts were 4-1/2 percent higher in the thirdquarter of this year than they were a year earlier, the largest year-over-year risesince the beginning of 2001.  The November survey from the NationalConference of State Legislatures (NCS L) indicated that budgetary distress
appears to be considerably less widespread than it was at the same time lastyear: Only ten states anticipate that they will have to close shortfalls in theirgeneral fund budgets before the end of the current fiscal year, compared withthirty-one states at the same time last year.  However, after the NCSL report waspublished, California developed a budget shortfall when the new governor rolledback the vehicle license fee;  moreover, California’s proposed $10.7 billion“deficit reduction” financing looks increasingly unlikely in the face of legalchallenges.
Results of a recent survey from the National League of Cities indicate that city
finances have continued to erode; the leading causes of the deterioration includereductions in state aid, cost increases for employee health benefits, andincreased infrastructure and public safety needs.
Prices and Labor Costs
Broad measures of price inflation remain quiescent.  The CPI was unchanged inOctober, as reductions in energy prices offset increases in food prices and coreprices.  Over the twelve months ending in October, the CPI was up 2.0 percent,the same rate of increase as in the previous twelve months; accelerations in foodand energy prices over that period offset a marked deceleration in core prices.  
Consumer energy prices dropped 3.9 percent in October.  The decline reflected a
return to near-normal gasoline inventories and markups after temporary supplydisruptions had trimmed inventories and pushed wholesale and retail gasolineprices sharply higher in the previous two months.  Inventories of natural gashave also rebounded from the very low levels seen earlier this year and now areabout normal for the season, as are inventories of heating oil.    
The CPI for food climbed 0.6 percent in October, with pronounced price
increases for a wide variety of items.  In particular, beef prices jumped again inOctober, but daily data from the USDA suggest that in November they haveretraced much of the October increase.  In the rest of the food category (alsoexcluding the volatile price of fruits and vegetables), prices rose 0.3 percent in 
II-30
II-31
9. The BLS removes an estimate of landlor d-provided utilities costs from the rent quotes
that it uses to construct OER.  Hence, a decel eration in utilities prices will tend to raise OER
relative to tenants’ rent.
10. In addition, the twelve months ending in October saw a sharp deceleration in shelter
rents, which receive a greater weight in the CPI than in the PCE indexes.October, boosting the twelve-month increase to 1.8 percent, an acceleration of
1/2 percentage point from the preceding year.
Excluding food and energy, the CPI increased 0.2 percent in October following
a 0.1 percent increase in September.  Although core consumer price inflation hasrebounded from even lower levels in the first part of the year, when it wasdepressed by transitory factors, it remains quite low.  The twelve-month changein the core CPI through October was 1.3 percent, well below the 2.2 percentincrease recorded during the comparable period a year earlier.  The index forcore commodities fell again last month and was 2.4 percent below its year-earlier level.  Core services prices rose 0.4 percent last month after a 0.2 percentincrease in September.  One notable contributor to higher inflation last monthwas a pickup in owners’ equivalent rent (OER).  After having been depressed inthe spring by rising household energy prices, OER moved up 0.3 percent inOctober and has increased at a 2-3/4 percent annual pace over the past threemonths.
9
Core PCE inflation has also remained subdued.  These prices increased only 0.1 percent in both September and October, and over the twelve months endingin October, they have risen just 1.2 percent, a 0.5 percentage point decelerationfrom the year-earlier period.  The deceleration in core PCE prices over the pastyear is less than the 0.9 percentage point deceleration in the core CPI over thesame period.  The difference between the two inflation measures occurs, in part,because the core PCE index includes non-market-based prices whereas the coreCPI does not; these non-market-based prices have not decelerated in the pastyear.
10  The twelve-month change in the market-based component of the core
PCE index has fallen 3/4 percentage point over the past year to a 0.6 percent rateof increase.  The core portion of the chained CPI (which, like PCE prices, uses asuperlative aggregation formula to account for substitution by consumers inresponse to changes in relative prices) rose 0.8 percent over the twelve monthsending in October, an increase similar to the rise in PCE and half the rate of theprevious year.  
The PPI for capital equipment rose 0.6 percent in October and stood 0.9 percent
above its level of a year earlier.  Prices of new cars and light trucks increasedconsiderably due to smaller incentives on 2004-model-year vehicles, which are 
II-32
II-33
II-34
II-35
11. In contrast with the PPI, which switches to  the new-model-year vehicles completely in
one month and includes financing incentives, th e CPI brings new-model-year vehicles in
incrementally as the mix of sales across mode l years changes and does not include financing
incentives.
12. Because a large share of insurance serv ices are purchased from abroad, the BEA’s
downward adjustment to nominal insurance servi ces boosted GDP prices in the third quarter of
2001 even as it reduced consumption prices.brought into the PPI sample in October.11  Prices for core intermediate materials
increased 0.3 percent and were up 1.8 percent from a year earlier.  The increasesin the prices of core intermediates in the PPI have been broadly consistent withmovements in capacity utilization, core import prices, and energy prices (whichfeed through to prices of fertilizers, plastics, and other petroleum-based items).  
Commodity prices have moved up strongly since midyear.  The Journal of
Commerce industrial price index has risen 1.7 percent since the OctoberGreenbook, owing to a pickup in prices for metals and farm crops, and is about26 percent higher than it was a year ago.  The Commodity Research Bureau’sprice index for spot industrial commodities, which excludes energy and forestproducts, is at about the same level as at the time of the last Greenbook but is up20 percent from a year ago.  Although jumps in commodity prices of themagnitude seen recently are typical when industrial activity accelerates, theytend to have only a small direct impact on overall price inflation.
Broad measures of inflation in the NIPAs have picked up over the past year
owing to a surge in energy prices, but core inflation measures have been aboutunchanged or have moved lower after adjusting for the BEA’s treatment ofinsurance payments associated with the terrorist attacks in the third quarter of2001.
12  Excluding food and energy, the price index for GDP rose 1.3 percent
over the past four quarters.  While this pace was 0.3 percentage point higherthan the published rate over the previous year, both rates are about the sameafter adjusting for the effects of the terrorist attacks. 
After having dipped noticeably during the summer, median year-ahead expected
inflation, as measured by Michigan Survey, has returned to levels recordedearlier in the year.  At 2.7 percent in November, year-ahead inflationexpectations are in line with its average for the past ten years.  Median expectedconsumer price inflation over the next five to ten years also stood at 2.7 percent,its average level in each of the past three quarters.
The employment cost index (ECI) for hourly compensation in private industry
rose at an annual rate of 4.2 percent over the three months ending in Septemberafter having posted a 3.4 percent increase during the previous three months. The wage and salary component of the index increased at an annual rate of3.5 percent for the three months ending in September, while benefits costs rose 
II-36
II-37
II-38
II-39
at a 5.6 percent rate.  Over the twelve months ending in September, ECI hourly
compensation in private industry rose 4.0 percent—about 1/4 percentage pointhigher than the level a year ago.  The increase in wages and salaries slippedslightly from 3.2 percent to 3.0 percent, but this slowing was more than offsetby an acceleration in benefits costs, which picked up from a 4.8 percent pace toa 6.5 percent pace.
Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector as measured in the BLS 
productivity and cost release increased at an annual rate of 3.0 percent in thethird quarter; the rise brings the four-quarter change in this series to 2.7 percent,0.2 percentage point less than in the preceding year.  Average hourly earnings ofproduction or nonsupervisory workers on private nonfarm payrolls rose2.4 percent from October 2002 to October 2003; this increase was3/4 percentage point less than in the corresponding 2001-02 period.
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1
Selected Financial Market Quotations
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted)
  Change to Dec. 2 from
2002 2003 selected dates (percentage points)
Instrument 2002 2003 2003
  Dec. 31 June 24 Oct. 27 Dec. 2 Dec. 31 June 24 Oct. 27
Short-term
FOMC intended federal funds rate 1.25 1.25 1.00 1.00 -.25 -.25 .00
Treasury bills 1
     3-month 1.20 0.81 0.96 0.92 -.28 .11 -.04
     6-month 1.21 0.82 1.03 1.02 -.19 .20 -.01
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates)
     1-month 1.28 0.91 1.02 1.00 -.28 .09 -.02
     3-month 1.36 0.88 1.09 1.07 -.29 .19 -.02
Large negotiable CDs 1
     1-month 1.34 0.96 1.05 1.10 -.24 .14 .05
     3-month 1.31 0.93 1.10 1.11 -.20 .18 .01     6-month 1.32 0.92 1.15 1.21 -.11 .29 .06
Eurodollar deposits 2
     1-month 1.30 0.94 1.05 1.10 -.20 .16 .05
     3-month 1.30 0.91 1.09 1.10 -.20 .19 .01
Bank prime rate 4.25 4.25 4.00 4.00 -.25 -.25 .00
Intermediate- and long-term
U.S. Treasury3
      2-year 1.60 1.14 1.83 2.07 .47 .93 .24     10-year 4.09 3.46 4.44 4.55 .46 1.09 .11
     30-year 4.96 4.53 5.29 5.31 .35 .78 .02
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 2.32 1.70 1.96 2.06 -.26 .36 .10
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 45.16 4.89 5.25 5.09 -.07 .20 -.16
Private instruments
     10-year swap 4.22 3.67 4.68 4.81 .59 1.14 .13
     10-year FNMA54.49 3.84 4.79 4.82 .33 .98 .03
     10-year AA 65.06 4.13 5.09 5.18 .12 1.05 .09
     10-year BBB 66.45 5.16 5.88 5.90 -.55 .74 .02
     High-yield 712.03 9.03 8.56 8.32 -3.71 -.71 -.24
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 8
     30-year fixed 5.93 5.21 6.05 5.89 -.04 .68 -.16
     1-year adjustable 4.01 3.51 3.76 3.77 -.24 .26 .01
  Change to Dec. 2 
Record high 2003 from selected dates (percent)
Stock exchange index Record 2003 2003
   Level Date June 24 Oct. 27 Dec. 2 high June 24 Oct. 27
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 9,110 9,608 9,854 -15.95 8.16 2.55
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 983 1,031 1,067 -30.17 8.46 3.44Nasdaq (OTC) 5,049 3-10-00 1,606 1,883 1,980 -60.78 23.32 5.16Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 441 515 554 -8.66 25.56 7.42Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 9,388 10,027 10,442 -29.22 11.22 4.13
       1.  Secondary market.
       2.  Bid rates for eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time.       3.  Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities.       4.  Most recent Thursday quote.       5.  Constant maturity yields estimated from Fannie Mae domestic noncallable coupon securities.       6.  Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data.       7.  Merrill Lynch Master II high-yield bond.       8.  For week ending Friday previous to date shown.       _______________________________________________________________________
       NOTES:
         December 31, 2002, is the end of the last calendar year.         June 24, 2003, is the day before the most recent policy easing.         October 27, 2003, is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting.       ___________________________________________________________________
1.01.52.02.53.03.54.0December 2, 2003
October 27, 2003Expected Federal Funds Rate Estimated from
Financial FuturesPercent
    Note.  Estimates from federal funds and eurodollar futures rates with an allowance for term premia and other adjustments.Jan. July Jan. July Jan.
2004 2005 2006Implied Distribution of Federal Funds Rate
About Six Months Ahead
Dec.02,2003 
Oct.27,2003 
0.250.500.751.001.251.501.752.002.25 05101520253035Percent
    Note. Based on the distribution of the 3-month eurodollar rate 5
months ahead (adjusted for a risk premium), as implied by options
on eurodollar futures contracts.
 50100150200250300350400Basis points Policy Uncertainty
Daily
     Note. Width of a 90 percent confidence interval computed
from the term structures for the expected federal funds rateand implied volatility.6 months ahead12 months aheadOct. 28 
FOMC 
Dec.
02 
Jan. July Jan. July Jan. July
2001 2002 200302468Short-Term Interest Rates
DailyPercent
Intended fed. funds2-year TreasuryOct. 28 
FOMC 
Dec .
 02
Jan. July Jan. July Jan. July
2001 2002 2003
3456789Long-Term Interest Rates
DailyPercent
    *Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency.10-year BBB
30-year municipal*
10-year TreasuryOct. 28 
FOMC 
Dec .
 02
Jan. July Jan. July Jan. July
2001 2002 20031.01.52.02.53.03.55 to 10 years ahead*
Next 5 yearsPercentTIIS Inflation Compensation
    *Estimates based upon smoothed nominal and inflation-
indexed yield curves.Oct. 28 FOMC 
Dec.
 02Dec.
 02
Jan. July Jan. July Jan. July
2001 2002 2003Interest Rates and Policy Expectations
Domestic Financial Developments
Overview
Near-term monetary policy expectations and money-market interest rates werelittle changed over the intermeeting period, tethered by policymakers’assurances that the stance of policy could remain accommodative for aconsiderable period.  However, longer-term policy expectations and Treasuryrates rose somewhat, reflecting the strengthening economic outlook.  Domesticfinancial conditions have continued to move in a favorable direction: Broadstock price indexes posted moderate gains, risk spreads narrowed a bit further,market volatility remained low, and indicators of asset quality strengthened inthe business and household sectors.  With profits continuing to rise sharply,business borrowing picked up only slightly in October and November. Household debt growth appears to have moderated somewhat in the currentquarter but remained quite brisk by historical standards.  In contrast, M2contracted over the intermeeting period, but the weakness likely reflects a falloffin mortgage refinancing activity and a shift in portfolio preferences to securitiesmarkets rather than current or prospective weakness in the economy.  
Policy Expectations and Treasury Yields
Very near-term policy expectations remained anchored near 1 percent over theintermeeting period, but expectations further ahead oscillated, rising on better-than-expected economic data and falling, on net, in response to statements byFederal Reserve officials suggesting th at policy tightening was not imminent. 
On balance, the expected path for policy shifted up as much as 1/4 percentagepoint beyond the middle of next year.  Current futures quotes suggest thatinvestors continue to place significan t odds on a quarter-point tightening by
mid-2004 and anticipate a funds rate in the neighborhood of 2 percent by theend of 2004.  Market uncertainty regarding future policy, measured by theimplied volatility on eurodollar options contracts, rose some but remained atmoderate levels, especially at near horizons.
Like policy expectations, intermediate and long-term Treasury yields moved up
on incoming data and down on Federal Reserve statements.  On balance,nominal Treasury coupon yields increased 2 to 24 basis points, with the largerincreases at intermediate maturities.  Yields on Treasury inflation-indexedsecurities closely tracked nominal yields over the period, leaving measures ofinflation compensation about unchanged.  Long-term interest rates weresomewhat less volatile than they had been in recent months, and option pricesindicated that expected volatility going forward also declined some.
Stock Prices and Corporate Risk Spreads
Broad equity price indexes rose moderately over the intermeeting period, andimplied forward-looking stock market volatility remained low.  Generallyfavorable economic data provided a boost to stock prices, which was partlyoffset by concerns about global terrorism, trade disputes, and periods of dollar
III-2
III-3
weakness.  The small-cap sector and technology stocks posted stronger gains
than the broader indexes.  The growing scope of the investigations into mutualfund practices did not appear to affect the broad market for equities, althoughstock prices fell for some of the fund management companies underinvestigation.  The expected forward-earnings yield on the S&P 500 indexchanged little over the intermeeting period, and the gap over the real Treasuryyield held steady within the upper part of its range of the past two decades. 
Risk spreads on corporate bonds continued to decline, with investment-grade
spreads edging down and speculative grades falling more substantially.  Spreadson five-year speculative-grade corporate bonds narrowed another 49 basispoints, a drop that brought them down to levels last seen in 1999.  Risk spreadsfor commercial paper remained low, even as thirty-day paper began to be placedover year-end.  The light year-end pressures in the commercial paper market todate appear to be the lowest seen in at least six years, likely reflecting greaterliquidity and reduced rollover concerns now that some of the riskier issuers haveexited the market.
Corporate Earnings and Credit Quality
Reports at the end of the third-quarter earnings season provided few surprises. Earnings of retailers and other late reporters were consistent with investors’elevated expectations, and the paucity of forward-looking guidance gave littlebasis for revising those expectations for the fourth quarter.  Accordingly, theexpected year-over-year growth rate in S&P 500 earnings per share for thefourth quarter was about unchanged at 21 percent, with revisions to year-aheadearnings forecasts similarly negligible.  Expected growth rates over the longerterm were little changed in November but have now retraced virtually the entirerun-up in the second half of the 1990s.
Corporate credit quality continued to improve.  Moody’s downgrades of
nonfinancial firms’ bond ratings have been muted in recent months relative tothe pace of the first half of the year .  Even the headline-grabbing downgrade of
Ford to a “BBB-” by Standard and Poor’s had a positive market effect becausethe accompanying text made it clear that the rating outlook for Ford goingforward was stable.  Delinquency rates on C&I loans at banks fell again in thethird quarter, and realized default rates on corporate bonds also dropped further. Indeed, only $170 million of corporate bonds defaulted in October, the lowestmonthly total since 1997.  Expected year-ahead default rates based on firm-specific measures from the KMV Corpor ation continued their sharp downward
trend.
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
Business Finance
Gross bond issuance by nonfinancial firms held steady in October andNovember at about the third-quarter pace, with strong issuance in both theinvestment-grade and speculative-grade sectors.  A large part of the proceedswere used to pay down outstanding debt, and net bond issuance remainedsluggish.  In shorter-term funding markets, outstanding commercial paper wasabout flat in October and November, while outstanding C&I loans contracted
again but at a slower pace than in the third quarter.  On balance, net debtfinancing by nonfinancial businesses has been slightly positive in the fourthquarter to date.
Gross equity issuance by nonfinancial firms in October and November picked
up from its third-quarter pace, with November registering the largest monthlytotal in more than a year.  Seasoned offerings were especially robust inNovember, although a significant share of the proceeds was earmarked forreducing debt.  The IPO market continued to recover, and filings for plannedissuance picked up.  Equity retirements from share repurchases appear to haveticked up slightly since mid-year, as have announcements of cash-financedmergers.  Overall, net equity issuance in the fourth quarter appears to be slightlyless negative than during the prior year. 
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial mortgage debt is estimated to have grown at a 9-1/2 percent annualrate in the third quarter, and the data in hand suggest a similarly robust pace inthe fourth quarter.  CMBS issuance remained brisk in the first two months of thequarter, and the pipeline for December indicates continued strong issuance. Yields on CMBS declined on net over the intermeeting period, and creditspreads remained at low levels.  CMBS delinquency rates edged up in October,but overall commercial mortgage delinquency rates stayed low.  BBB-ratedCMBS generally continued to trade at a yield premium over similarly ratedcorporate debt, likely reflecting some concern about commercial real estatefundamentals and the rapid pace of CMBS issuance.  
Household Finance
Interest rates on thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages remained around 6 percentduring the intermeeting period, up from record lows touched at mid-year.Refinancing activity moved down in November but was still reasonably high byhistorical standards.  The growth of hom e mortgage debt slowed only slightly, to
a 13 percent rate, in the third quarter.  With interest rates remaining attractive,mortgage debt is estimated to be growing at a still brisk pace in the fourthquarter.
Consumer credit growth picked up to about a 6-1/2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, owing in part to a surge in auto loans that was supported by
III-8
III-9
III-10
III-11
interest-rate incentives.  Since September, a reduction in incentives has pushed
auto loan rates up, pointing to a slowdown in loan growth in the fourth quarter.
According to the latest available information, household credit quality has
continued to improve on balance.  Delinquency rates on consumer loans andhome mortgages at commercial banks fell for the third consecutive quarter. Delinquency rates on auto loans at the captive finance companies remained atlow levels in September, and household bankruptcy filings have stabilized overthe fourth quarter, albeit at still elevated levels.
Appreciation in the value of housing and equities boosted household net worth
substantially over the third quarter.  Meanwhile, the additional tax cuts liftedhouseholds’ disposable income, leaving the ratio of household assets todisposable income about unchanged.  In October and November, householdscontinued to shift their mutual fund assets from bond funds to equity funds.  Todate, news of investigations into mutual fund trading practices has evidently notprompted a significant pullback by mutual fund investors, although some of theaffected funds have seen sizable withdrawals.
State and Local Government Finance
Gross municipal bond issuance was strong in October but appears to havemoderated in November, leaving issuance over the two months roughly on parwith that of the third quarter.  Issuance for long-term capital projects remainedparticularly robust, while refunding deals apparently declined as interest ratesheld steady.
Bond rating changes over the intermeeting period were similar to those seen
earlier this year, with nearly as many upgrades as downgrades.  Revenue-bondcredit spreads eased from their recent highs, though they remain elevated,reflecting the ongoing stress on municipal fi nances.  News that California might
expand its borrowing next year reportedly had no effect on its outstanding bondspreads.
Treasury and Agency Finance
The Treasury’s refunding announcement in November did not contain anychanges in debt management policy, and the refunding auctions themselvesproceeded smoothly.  Fails to deliver in the May 2013 Treasury note, whichhave been elevated for some time, moved down recently, apparently as certaininvestors were enticed by the issue’s scarcity premium to make their holdingsavailable to the RP market.  The fails in this issue remain an isolated problem,with little reported spillover into other securities or markets. Freddie Mac announced on November 21 the long-awaited restatement of itsearnings for 2000, 2001, and 2002.  However, to the disappointment of some
III-12

III-13
investors, it indicated that quarterly earnings reports for 2003 will not be
available until next year.  The restatement produced a $5 billion upward revisionto Freddie’s earnings for the 2000-02 period as a whole, although earnings for2001 were reduced.  The magnitude of the revision was largely anticipated bymarket participants, but the agency’s stock price moved up on the day of therestatement as a result of the resolution of the uncertainty.  
Money and Bank Credit
M2 has declined at an average rate of 4-3/4 percent over the last three months. The staff estimates that a sizable part of the decrease owes to the falloff inmortgage refinancing activity, which depressed the growth of liquid deposits. Some of the weakness may also have re flected shifting portfolio preferences:
The runoff of retail money market funds accelerated in October, perhapsreflecting the relative attractiveness of equity investments.  Currency continuedto rebound from its unusually sluggish pace this summer.
Bank credit appears to have rebounded in November after posting declines in
the previous two months. Bank credit had been held down in September andOctober by heavy securitization of residential mortgages, but is estimated tohave grown in November as banks reduced securitizations and rebuilt their MBSportfolios.  A large purchase of a credit card portfolio from a nonbankcontributed about five percentage points to November’s estimated 10 percentgrowth rate for bank credit. 
III-14
III-15
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S. International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The U.S. international trade deficit in September rose to $41.3 billion, higher
than during the previous three months.
The value of exports of goods and serv ices increased 2.8 percent in September,
reversing the drop recorded in August.  The rise was spread among all major
trade categories, particularly automo tive products and capital goods (especially
semiconductors and computer accessories).   Services receipts inched up from
August levels.  In the third quarter, the value of exported goods and services rose
13 percent at an annual rate, following three quarters of only small changes. 
Double-digit increases were record ed in services, computers, and
semiconductors.  Exported core goods ro se 6 percent at an annual rate.
Nominal imports of goods and servi ces jumped 3.3 percent in September,
rebounding from the drop recorded in August , with increases in all major trade
categories except oil.  The largest increases were in automotive products
(reversing nearly all of the drop r ecorded in August) and capital goods
(especially computers and aircraft).  Services payments were slightly above
August levels.  In the third quarter, the value of imported goods and services
increased 6 percent at an a nnual rate, about twice the ra te recorded in the second
quarter but less than rates recorded in th e previous five quarters.  Double-digit
increases were recorded in the third quart er for services and the value of oil, but
imported core goods declined marginally.
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
1. The data presented here are from the TIC Reporting System and include offsets applied
by the BEA based on observed differences between transactions data and survey results.  TheBEA offsets vary by instrument.  For private purchases of U.S. debt securities in September,BEA subtracted $10 billio n from agency bonds, $2 billion from Treasurie s, and $1 billion from
corporate bonds.  For U.S. purchases of foreign stocks, BEA added $1 billion.Prices of Internatio nally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In October, the prices of U.S. imports of non-oil goods
declined 0.1 percent.  The prices of imported core goods were unchanged from
September.  Within core goods, the largest price change was for automotiveproducts.  Prices of automotive products rose 0.6 percent, reflecting the weakerU.S. dollar and the change in the model year.  In the other major trade categorieswithin core goods, price changes were small.  Prices for consumer goods andindustrial supplies declined 0.1 and 0.2 percent, respectively.  Prices for foods,feeds, and beverages increased 0.1 percent.  The prices of U.S. imports ofcomputers declined sharply in October, falling 2 percent.  Prices forsemiconductors declined 0.5 percent. 
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose 2.3 percent in October, after falling a
revised 5 percent in September.  The spot price of West Texas Intermediate
(WTI) crude oil was also higher in October, averaging about $30.35 per barrel,
up around 7 percent from September.  The spot price averaged a little more than
$31 per barrel in November, but has ed ged down recently, closing at $30.78 per
barrel on December 2.  Oil prices remain elevated owing in part to a lack ofsecurity in Iraq, where oil exports have  only slowly returned to the market.
Exports.   In October, the prices of U.S. exports of total goods and of core goods
increased 0.3 and 0.4 percent, respectively.  The largest prices changes were for
agricultural products and industrial supplies.  Following a 5.6 percent increase inSeptember, prices of agricultural products increased another 2.5 percent inOctober.  The increase was driven by higher prices for soybeans, meat, andcotton.  Prices for exported industrial supplies rose 0.6 percent in October,reflecting higher prices for precious metals, paper, and chemicals.  In the othermajor trade categories within core goods, prices increased modestly.  The pricesof U.S. exports of computers were unchanged.  Prices for semiconductors weredown sharply, falling 1.5 percent. 
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
In September, foreign private investors on net sold U.S. securities (line 4 of the
Summary of U.S. International Transactions table) for the first time in fiveyears.
1  These net sales followed unusually  large net purchases, averaging $50
billion a month, during the preceding six mont hs.  Foreigners we re net sellers of
IV-6
agency securities (line 4b) for the s econd consecutive mont h, and net sales in
September ($16 billion) were the highest yet recorded.  Net sales of Treasuries
(line 4a) totaled $6 billion and followed exceptionally high net foreign purchasesduring the preceding six-month period.  Th ere were also net sales of equities
(line 4d) of $6 billion.  Foreign purchases of corporate debt (line 4c) continued
at about the same high level seen throughout 2003.
We view the net sales of U.S. securities by private foreigners in September as an
aberration.  They followed, as noted above , extremely strong net purchases over
the preceding six months, and for the third quarter as a whole net foreignpurchases were in line with the high levels of recent years.  Going forward,indications from issuance and secondary market performance point to increased
foreign demand in the fourth quarter .  For bonds, issuance of all types—
Treasury, agency, and corporate—were strong in October, with anecdotal
evidence of strong foreign demand.  For equities, the recent performance of the
U.S. equity markets suggests the dearth  of foreign demand in September may
have been short-lived. 
U.S. investors continued their recent enthusiasm for foreign securities in
September, purchasing on net $13 billion in  foreign equities and bonds (line 5). 
For the third quarter as a whole, U.S. net purchases of foreign securities totaled$29 billion, comparable to the first quart er amount and only slightly lower than
the quarterly averages from 1995 - 2001.  During the third quarter, U.S. netacquisitions were entirely in foreign equities.  These equity purchases wereconcentrated in Japan ($17 b illion) and Taiwan ($10 billion). 
Net foreign official inflows (line 1) continued at a robust pace in September,
with the largest net inflows from Japan, Taiwan, and China.  Through the first
nine months of 2003, foreign official inflows totaled $139 billion, exceeding the
previous annual record of $129 billion in  1996.  Partial data  from the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York indicate that foreign official reserves in custody
there increased by an additional $15 b illion during October and by another $30
billion during November.                       .
The highly volatile banking sector (lin e 3) saw net outflows of $32 billion during
September but net inflows of $26 billion for the third quarter.  
Summing official flows, banking flows, and U.S. and foreign net securities
purchases (the only third quarter data curre ntly available), there were net foreign
inflows of $129 billion for the quarter, an amount slightly above the average for
these components in recent years.
IV-7
IV-8
Foreign Exchange Markets
The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major currencies index, 
declined 1½ percent on net over the in termeeting period while experiencing
considerable day-to-day volatility.  The dollar appreciated in late October andearly November following several str onger-than-expected U.S. economic data
releases.  Since November 6, however, despite continued positive U.S. economic
data the dollar has declined  3½ percent on net.  Market  participants reportedly
attributed the dollar’s depreciation to heightened concerns over geopolitical risksstemming from developments in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Turkey, and anescalation of trade fricti ons prompted by the Administration’s decision to
impose import quotas on Chinese tex tiles.  The dollar rebounded briefly
following news reports on November 24 that Congress would repeal the export
tax breaks that had been ruled illegal by  the World Trade Organization, but soon
resumed its decline.  The major currencies index fell to a seven-year low late inthe intermeeting period.  Against the curre ncies of our other important trading
partners, the dollar appreciated more th an ¼ percent on net over the intermeeting
period.
The dollar depreciated 2 percent to 4 percent on net against the European
currencies, responding in pa rt to economic data releas es in the euro area that
signaled a pickup in economic activity .  The dollar depreciated 4¼ percent
against the Australian dollar on a rise  in the pace of economic activity in
IV-9
Australia and two 25-basi s-point policy tightenings by the Reserve Bank of
Australia.  In contrast, the dollar was little changed on net against the yen.  TheJapanese monetary authorities resumed     intervention operations early inthe intermeeting period and purchased a total of about $16 billion for yen over
the period.
Three-month interest rates moved little on net over the intermeeting period in
major industrial countries except in Aust ralia and in the United Kingdom, where
the Bank of England raised its policy rate 25 basis points on November 6.  As
had been widely expected, the European  Central Bank and the Bank of Japan left
their respective monetary policy stan ces unchanged.  Long-term benchmark
yields were little changed on net in Canada and the United Kingdom, but movedup 10 to 15 basis points in the euro area and Japan.
Since the October FOMC meeting, broa d share price indexes of most major
industrial economies ha ve risen 3 percent to 8 percent, as evidence of a strong
global economic recovery has accumulate d and corporate risk spreads have
declined further.  The exception was in  Japan, where the Topix index declined
about 1½ percent as invest ors reportedly raised con cerns about the earnings
prospects of export-oriented firm s owing to the yen’s strength.
IV-10
The Brazilian real depreciated 2 percent against the dollar over the intermeeting
period, the Brazilian equity market inde x gained almost 16 percent, and the
spread over Treasury yields of Brazilian sovereign debt, as measured by thecountry’s EMBI+ index, fell about 150 ba sis points to near 500 basis points, a
level last reached in the spring of 1998.  The Brazilian central bank unexpectedly
cut its policy rate 150 basis points on November 19, citing a more favorable
projected trajectory for in flation.  News that the Brazilian government reached
an agreement on a one-year extension of its IMF program and that Standard &
Poor’s could soon revise its outlook for credit rating of Braz ilian sovereign debt
from stable to positive also supported Braz ilian financial market s.  Late in the
period, the report that Brazilian GDP grew  only modestly in the third quarter
dampened investor enthusiasm some what.  The Mexican peso depreciated
almost 1½ percent against the dollar amid  a sharp slowdown in Mexico’s growth
IV-11
in the third quarter.  Still, Mexican share prices were up almost 10 percent over
the intermeeting period.
The spot price of gold has increased about 4½ percent since the October FOMC
meeting, to above $400 per ounce.  The pr ice of gold last closed above the $400
level in March 1996.  
           
 .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for theaccounts of the System or Treasury.
IV-12
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
Recent data suggest that a recovery in the major foreign industrial countries has
taken hold.  Japan’s economy gr ew faster than expected during the third quarter,
and recent readings on exports and i ndustrial production suggest that the
expansion is continuing.  In the euro ar ea, third-quarter GDP data also surprised
on the upside, and sentiment indicators have shown improvement.  In the UnitedKingdom, GDP growth picked up in the third quarter, driven by continued
strength in private consumption.  Ec onomic activity also firmed in Canada
during the third quarter, where confid ence has rebounded amid  improved labor-
market conditions.
Twelve-month rates of consumer price in flation generally moved down in recent
months.  Canadian headline inflation dropped to 1.6 percent in October, as
energy price inflation moderated.  The U. K. inflation rate declined slightly, but
remained just above the 2½ pe rcent target level.  In the euro area, inflation edged
up to 2.2 percent in November , just above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling.  In Japan,
mild deflation continued.
The Bank of England raised its official repo interest rate 25 basis points to 3.75
percent in early November.
In Japan , real GDP rose a stronger-than-ex pected 2.2 percent during the third
quarter.  Growth was led by a double-dig it advance in private investment.  The
strength of real investme nt may be overstated, however , as distortions in the
calculation of the deflator for investment may exaggerate the fall in the priceused to deflate nominal investment sp ending.  Net exports  added 0.7 percentage
point to growth, with soaring exports outpacing a sizable increase in imports. 
Private consumption was roughly flat.  P ublic investment c ontinued to contract
sharply.  Nominal GDP was about unchanged  in the third quarter relative to the
second quarter.
Recent indicators, while mixed, suggest that the expansion continued in the
fourth quarter.  Industrial production rose 0.8 percent in  October, on the heels of
a hefty increase in September.  The br oader all-industries index also advanced
smartly in September.  Workers’ house hold expenditures declined in October
but remained above the third-quarter aver age.  New car registrations fell sharply
in November.  Core machinery orders, a leading indicator of business fixed
investment, fell in September for the third consecutive month, suggesting thatthe heady pace of investment may be easing.  Housing starts jumped in October,partly in anticipation that the govern ment will soon reduce tax breaks for new
homeowners.  Real exports continued to  rise briskly in October, boosted by
buoyant growth in emerging Asia, while imports declined.
IV-13
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP -2.4 2.5 1.7 1.9 3.5 2.2
Total domestic demand -1.8 1.5 .1 2.0 2.4 1.6
Consumption 1.4 1.4 -1.1 .9 .5 .2Private investment -10.5 2.7 11.3 8.1 16.7 11.6Public investment -1.1 -5.8 -10.2 -14.6 -9.8 -14.9Government consumption 2.3 1.5 -.1 1.3 .2 .0Inventories
2-.6 .3 -.7 .6 -.5 .0
Exports -11.0 17.7 20.3 1.8 6.1 11.5Imports -7.1 8.8 6.1 3.0 -4.8 6.8Net exports
2-.6 1.1 1.6 -.1 1.1 .7
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Recent readings on the labor market have been mixed.  In October, the
unemployment rate edged up to 5.2 per cent.  More encouragingly, the
job-offers-to-applicants ra tio, a leading indicator of employment, jumped to its
highest level in six years.  Core consum er goods prices in the Tokyo area (which
exclude fresh food but include energy) fell marginally in November and were
down 0.2 percent from a year earlier.  Higher prices for rice owing to a poorharvest helped to push nationwide co re consumer prices up 0.1 percent in
October from a year ago, marking the first increase on a twelve-month basissince April 1998.  Wholesale prices for domestic goods fell 0.4 percent in
October from a year earlier.
The Japanese ruling coalition lost 12 seats in the Lower House election on
November 9, but still maintained a comf ortable majority with 275 out of 480
seats.  Prime Minister Koizumi retain ed his position, and po licies are generally
expected to be little changed.  
The government decided in late November to nationa lize Ashikaga Bank, a large
regional bank.  The bank repor ted that its capital ade quacy ratio had fallen to
well below zero.  Ashikaga’ s equity will be written to zero and a management
IV-14
team made up of Financial Services Agency and local officials will run the bank
for an interim period.  The government  plans eventually to sell the bank. 
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov.
Industrial production1.3 -.7 1.3 -.7 3.8 .8 n.a.
All-industries index .7 .0 .1 .3 2.2 n.a. n.a.Housing starts .7 4.3 -6.9 -8.5 6.3 6.8 n.a.Machinery orders
25.8 3.4 -2.9 -4.3 -1.6 n.a. n.a.
Machinery shipments3.2 1.5 2.2 3.4 2.3 4.8 n.a.
New car registrations .9 -6.1 2.2 .0 5.0 -1.4 -5.4Unemployment rate
45.4 5.4 5.2 5.1 5.1 5.2 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.60 .61 .64 .63 .66 .70 n.a.
Business sentiment6-26 -26 -21 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-.7 -.4 -.3 -.3 -.3 -.1 -.2
Wholesale prices7-.9 -1.0 -.7 -.7 -.5 -.4 n.a.
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
Euro-area  real GDP grew above expectations in the third quarter, as significant
positive contributions from net exports and government spending outweighed afall in private domestic dema nd.  Investment fell nearly 2 percent, while private
consumption was flat.  Inventories ma de a sizeable negative contribution to
growth.  The weakness in private cons umption was particul arly apparent in
Germany, where it fell 2.3 percent, while  the surprise increase in government
expenditure is primarily attributable to France.
Indicators point to continued recovery in  the euro area.  The euro-area PMI for
manufacturing rose to 52.2 in November, remaining above the 50 level that is 
IV-15
Euro-Area Real GDP1
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20012200222002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP .8 1.1 .1 -.1 -.4 1.5Total domestic demand .1 .9 1.5 1.4 .2 -2.5Consumption 1.2 .6 1.3 2.1 .3 -.1Investment -2.0 -1.9 1.1 -4.5 -2.1 -1.9Government consumption 2.7 2.2 .7 1.6 1.7 1.9Inventories
3- . 6. 5. 3. 8. 1 - 2 . 4
Exports -2.0 4.1 -.7 -5.8 -2.5 9.2Imports -3.8 3.8 3.1 -2.5 -.9 -1.5Net exports
3.6 .2 -1.4 -1.4 -.6 4.0
Memo:
France .7 1.3 -1.1 .2 -1.4 1.5Germany .5 .5 -.2 -1.0 -.6 .9Italy .6 .9 1.5 -.7 -.6 2.0
1. Includes Greece as of 2001 Q1.
2. Q4/Q4.3. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
the benchmark for expansion.  The euro -area PMI for services moved up to 57.5
in November, close to its highest level in three years.  The EuropeanCommission’ s measures of industria l and consumer confidence showed
improvement in November.  The German  IFO survey of business confidence
increased in November to its highes t level since January 2001.  The current
conditions component of the IFO survey al so showed strong gains in November.
Euro-area twelve-month consumer pri ce inflation rose to 2.2 percent in
November, according to the preliminar y estimate, just above the ECB’s
2 percent ceiling.  Elevated food prices  continued to push up headline inflation. 
Core inflation, excluding food, energy, alcohol and tobacco, remained at about
1.7 percent in October on a twelve-month basis. 
European Union finance ministers (ECOFIN)  decided in late November to defer
disciplinary action against France and Germany over their persistent excessivedeficits.  Germany and France agreed to cut their structural deficits 0.6 and 0.8 
IV-16
percentage points, respectively, in 2004, but would not automatically be subject
to fines if they fail to do so.  While ECOFIN is free to take up the matter again infuture meetings, this action effectively ends implementation of the excessivedeficit procedures stipulated by the Stability and Growth Pact.  The EuropeanCommission (EC) vehemently opposed the decision while the ECB announced
that the decision risks undermining the credibility of the institutional framework
of the euro area.  
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov.
Industrial production1.0 -.7 -.0 -.7 -.6 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume2.6 -.2 n.a. -.1 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Unemployment rate38.7 8.8 8.8 8.8 8.8 8.8 n.a.
Consumer confidence4-19.3 -19.3 -17.3 -17.0 -17.0 -17.0 -16.0
Industrial confidence4-11.0 -12.0 -11.3 -11.0 -9.0 -8.0 -7.0
Mfg. orders, Germany -.1 -1.8 1.5 -.1 1.9 n.a. n.a.CPI
52.3 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.0 2.2
Producer prices52.4 1.5 1.2 1.4 1.1 .9 n.a.
M358.0 8.4 7.6 8.2 7.6 8.0 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Excludes motor vehicles.3. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO defi nition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.n.a.  Not available.
Economic activity in the United Kingdom has picked up, with real GDP
expanding 3 percent in the third quarter .  Growth was suppor ted by continued
robust consumption spending and cons iderable government expenditure. 
Inventories also made a sizable contributi on.  These bright spots were offset by a
sharp contraction in inve stment and a negative contribution from net exports, as
imports outpaced a modest gain in exports. 
IV-17
U.K. Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP 1.9 2.0 2.1 .7 2.4 3.0
Total domestic demand 2.9 3.3 5.8 -.2 2.0 4.0
Consumption 4.6 3.3 5.2 -.6 2.7 3.1Investment -1.8 4.8 3.4 -2.8 5.1 -5.3Government consumption 4.2 .3 2.0 10.7 2.1 2.6Inventories
2-.5 .4 1.6 -1.3 -1.2 2.6
Exports -2.9 -1.9 -17.2 12.1 -9.9 .4Imports .6 3.6 -3.9 6.8 -9.7 4.1Net exports
2-1.0 -1.6 -3.9 1.0 .4 -1.1
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Data for the fourth quarter suggest c ontinued expansion.  Business confidence
improved slightly in October, and the manufacturing PMI strengthened further in
November.  The services PMI climbed in November to its highest level sinceJune 1997.  Retail sales move d up briskly in October, as consumers continued
their robust spending.  In November, consumer confidence ticked down, and a
leading survey suggests some slowing in retail sales.
While recent data on housing prices ha ve been mixed, surveys suggest that
prices are still rising at a robust twelve -month rate.  Household net mortgage and
consumer borrowing remain ed elevated in October.
The labor market continued to be tight as  both the official claims-based and the
labor force survey measures of the une mployment rate held steady near 28-year
lows. The twelve-month rate  of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage
interest payments) edged down in Octobe r and remained just above the Bank of
England’s 2½ percent target.  The harmoni zed index of consumer prices (HICP)
rose 1.4 percent in the twelve  months ending in October.
On November 6, the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC)
raised the repo rate 25 basis points to 3.75 percent, the first increase in official
rates since February 2000.  The MPC noted  the broadening of the pick-up in 
IV-18
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov.
Industrial production -.3 .2 -.2 -.8 .0 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume1-.6 1.5 1.2 .4 .8 .6 n.a.
Unemployment rate2
      Claims-based 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.0 n.a.      Labor force survey
35.1 5.0 n.a.  5.0 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence4-1.3 -6.3 -3.3 -3.0 -3.0 -4.0 -2.0
Consumer confidence5-10.0 -6.7 -5.0 -6 -3 -3 -4
Retail prices62.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.8 2.7 n.a.
Producer input prices71.8 -.5 1.2 1.9 .6 1.8 n.a.
Average earnings73.5 3.0 3.6 3.4 3.7 n.a. n.a.
1. Excludes motor vehicles. 
2. Percent3. Three-month average centered on month shown.4. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage 
expecting output to decrease.
5. Average of the percentage balance from consumers’ expectations of their financial 
situation, general economic situation, unemployment, and savings over the next 12                     months.
6. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.7. Percent change from year earlier....  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
growth both at home and abroad, and obs erved that household spending and the
housing market have not slowed as  much as the Committee expected. 
In Canada , real GDP rose 1.1 percent in the third quarter.  Final domestic
demand jumped 5.8 percent, the fastes t rate since early 1999, led by sharp
increases in purchases of consumer durab les and investment.  However, a large
reduction in the pace of inventory accu mulation took 5.1 percentage points off
growth.  Exports fell for the fourth consecutive quarter, but net exports stillprovided a slight positive contribution to growth as imports declined even more. The fall in imports was led by a large drop in automotive imports, as dealers metstrong consumer dema nd out of inventories.
IV-19
Canadian Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
GDP 1.4 3.5 1.6 2.0 -.7 1.1
Total domestic demand .8 5.7 4.5 6.7 2.5 .4
Consumption 2.3 3.8 4.4 3.9 3.8 5.1Investment 3.4 2.0 .1 5.0 3.2 12.4Government consumption 3.5 2.8 2.4 2.5 6.9 1.3Inventories
2-1.9 2.3 1.4 2.7 -1.5 -5.1
Exports -5.4 .7 -8.7 -5.5 -3.7 -.9Imports -8.4 6.5 -1.4 3.8 6.8 -2.1Net exports
2.8 -2.0 -3.2 -3.6 -3.9 .4
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Indicators for the fourth quarter have been positive.  Employment rose 0.4
percent in October, the largest mont hly gain since early 2002, pushing the
unemployment rate down to 7.6 percent.  Housing starts remained robust, with
October starts reaching their second high est level in 14 years.  Recent readings
on consumer and business confidence move d up sharply.  In addition, both the
Business Conditions Survey and PMI di ffusion index indicated expansion in
October.  The composite leading indi cator rose in September and October,
recording the largest back-to- back increase since early 2002. 
In October, the twelve-month rate of headline CPI inflation declined to 1.6
percent, reflecting a moderation in the ra te of increase in the energy component
of the index.  Twelve-month core infl ation, excluding food, energy, and indirect
taxes, remained at 1.8 percent.
IV-20
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Jul. Aug. Sept. Oct.
GDP by industry .6 .1 .3 .4 -.8 1.1 n.a.
Industrial production .0 -1.7 .1 .8 -.8 2.0 n.a.New mfg. orders 1.5 -4.6 1.5 2.2 -5.4 8.0 n.a.Retail sales 1.8 -.1 1.1 .9 .3 -.8 n.a.Employment .5 .1 .1 -.1 -.1 .3 .4Unemployment rate
17.4 7.7 7.9 7.8 8.0 8.0 7.6
Consumer prices24.5 2.8 2.1 2.2 2.0 2.2 1.6
Core Consumer Prices2,33.2 2.4 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.8 1.8
Consumer attitudes4114.5 115.1 121.8 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence4131.4 109.9 127.2 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes.4. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-21
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Japan
Trade 73.3 77.2 90.1 91.4 102.9 113.7
Current account 117.3 133.6 151.2 148.1 156.2 n.a.
Euro area
Trade131.2 69.2 131.8 100.4 114.3 n.a.
Current account111.1 -29.4 72.9 65.6 125.7 n.a.
Germany
Trade 125.7 139.1 177.6 163.8 198.6 n.a.Current account
141.9 39.2 57.7 30.8 125.6 n.a.
France
Trade .4 -.3 1.9 1.4 1.9 n.a.Current account 3.5 .6 3.1 3.9 3.3 n.a.
Italy
Trade .9 -3.3 1.5 1.2 3.9 n.a.Current account
1-30.2 -42.3 8.0 -11.3 -3.0 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -69.1 -71.1 -75.0 -65.4 -93.1 n.a.Current Account -14.9 -55.7 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 43.0 42.5 46.0 45.9 49.7 n.a.Current Account 18.7 14.5 21.2 ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-22
IV-23
IV-24
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Third-quarter GDP releases confirmed a strong rebound in growth in developing
Asia, with Hong Kong, Singapore, and Taiwan posting stellar performances.  In
Korea, solid export growth was record ed, along with some strengthening in
consumption.  In Latin America, economic performance is still mixed. 
Argentina’s recovery has continued and third-quarter  real GDP growth turned
positive in Brazil.  In Mexico, real GDP contracted in the third quarter, although
October data hint at some  improvement.  Inflation ha s remained subdued in most
of the developing world.
The Chinese economy continued to expand at a robust pace in October, with
production up about 17 percent over the prev ious year level.  Tourism remained
strong in the early fall after bouncing back from last spring’s SARS-induced
decline, and retail sa les in October were more th an 10 percent above their low
point during the epidemic.  Twelve-mont h consumer price inflation jumped to
1.8 percent in October from 1.1 percent in  September, largely reflecting higher
food prices, as heavy rains caused shor tages of vegetables in some areas. 
However, prices of many other g oods, including clothing and consumer
durables, continued to fall on a year-over-year basis.  In contrast, twelve-month
inflation remained positive in the housin g sector, where there have been some
concerns about overheating.  China’s trade deficit narrowed in October as
exports grew slightly more than impor ts.  Nevertheless, China’s year-to-date
trade surplus is considerably smaller than last year’s surplus, and some analystsare forecasting that the trade balance will be close to zero for the year as a
whole.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP17.5 8.0 -2.9 17.5 ... ... ...
Industrial production28.9 11.8 15.1 16.6 17.1 16.3 17.2
Consumer prices2-.3 -.4 .7 .8 .9 1.1 1.8
Trade balance323.1 30.3 12.5 7.0 19.1 -3.7 -1.5
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
IV-25
Despite the narrowing of the overall trade balance, attention has remained
focused on China’s large bilateral surplus with the United States, and theCommerce Department recently imposed restrictions on several categories of
textile imports from China.  U.S. officials have also suggested that they willpress China to move to counteract illegal copying of U.S. products and to further
open its markets to foreign competition.  Pressure on China to allow greater
flexibility in its exchange rate regime has continued as well.  Chinese officialsinsist, however, that no changes to the exchange rate regime will be made in thenear future, and the IMF recently indicated that it sees no clear evidence that therenminbi is undervalued.
In Hong Kong , third-quarter real GDP skyroc keted as the economy recovered
from the effects of SARS.  Exports of goods and services led the way, and
private consumption also rose strongly.  Tourist arrivals in October reached a
new record high.  The unemployment rate  has continued to fall.  The property
sector has also continued to show sign s of revival, with nonresidential building
permits in August at their highest level since 1996.  This reflects, in part, recent
changes in Chinese laws that now allo w some investment in the Hong Kong
property market by Chinese companies.  Twelve-month consum er price inflation
remained negative in October, but the ra te of deflation has slowed somewhat in
the past two months.  The trade defic it widened again in October, as robust
growth in imports slightly outpaced that of exports.  Total trade—a goodindicator of economic activity for H ong Kong’s entrepôt economy—rose 4½
percent to an historical high. 
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP1-1.3 5.2 -14.0 28.2 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.9 7.3 8.6 8.3 8.6 8.3 8.0
Consumer prices3-3.7 -1.6 -2.5 -3.7 -3.8 -3.2 -2.6
Trade balance4-11.4 -7.7 -6.8 -8.4 -10.5 -12.1 -13.0
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
IV-26
The Taiwanese economy has continued to expand at  a rapid clip after shaking
off the effects of SARS.  Real GDP wa s up 25 percent in the third quarter, much
more than reversing the second-quarter  decline.  Industrial production rose
moderately in October following a sharp increase in September, with continued
robust growth in production of high-t ech goods.  In addition, export orders
reached a record high in October, powered by strong pre-Christmas demand forelectronic goods.  The recent expans ion has contributed to continued
incremental reduction in the unemployment rate, which is now down a littlemore than ½ percentage point from its peak last year.  The renewed economic
strength has also contributed to furthe r easing of deflationa ry pressures, with
consumer prices about unchanged in October on a twelve-month basis.  The
trade surplus narrowed by about $6 billi on in October, as total goods exports
dropped back a bit after two months of rapid gains, while imports fell by a
smaller amount.
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP1-1.9 4.3 -8.1 25.1 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.6 5.2 5.2 5.0 5.0 4.9 4.8
Industrial production -7.3 6.4 -1.0 7.1 .1 1.6 .8Consumer prices
3-1.7 .8 -.1 -.6 -.6 -.2 -.1
Trade balance415.6 18.1 16.2 20.0 18.7 21.3 15.2
Current account517.9 25.7 26.1 27.7 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate....  Not applicable.
Korean real GDP rebounded 4.7 percent in th e third quarter, following two
consecutive quarters of contraction.  Ex ports were the main contributor to
growth, but private consumption also in creased.  Investment, on the contrary,
was still a significant drag on growth.   Industrial production was up nearly
2.5 percent in October, the third consecu tive monthly increase, boosted by strong
exports of automobiles, semiconductors, a nd chemical products.  Nevertheless, a
high level of household debt, a housing price correction, and political
uncertainty remain key risks to a gr adual recovery in domestic demand.  In
addition, the unemployment rate rose to  3.7 percent in October, as the rebound
IV-27
in labor force participation outpaced employment gains.  However, consumer
and business confidence indicat ors continued to rise in October.  Due to strong
export growth, Korea has continued to register sizeable trade surpluses.
After a temporary increase in October, largely reflecting higher food prices,
twelve-month consumer price inflation dropped back to 3.4 percent in
November.  Concerned about surging hous ing prices, the government introduced
anti-speculative measures at the beginni ng of November that include higher
capital gains taxes on owners of three or  more properties, lower loan-to-value
ratios for mortgage lending, and an increase in the supply of housing units inSeoul.
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Real GDP14.2 7.0 -2.7 4.7 ... ... ...
Industrial production .4 8.3 -.4 .9 2.9 2.4 n.a.Unemployment rate
23.8 3.1 3.4 3.5 3.5 3.7 n.a.
Consumer prices33.2 3.8 3.3 3.2 3.3 3.8 3.4
Trade balance413.5 14.2 19.3 27.9 34.6 36.5 n.a.
Current account58.2 6.1 10.1 16.3 27.0 30.2 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Third-quarter GDP releases for the ASEAN region have shown robust growth. 
Singapore posted a stellar performan ce, driven primarily by high-tech
manufacturing and a recovery in the SARS-affected service sector.  Malaysia’sstrong output growth was fueled by an  expansion in agriculture coupled with
continued positive performance in the manufacturing sector.  Growth inIndonesia was led by the mining sector, while the Philippine s benefitted from an
increase in agricultural output.  In October, industria l production expanded
briskly in Singapore, following a c ontraction in September led by the
pharmaceutical industry, whereas produc tion posted only moderate gains in
Thailand and declined sharply in the Philippines.  Recent trade data have beenmixed.  Inflation in th e region remained subdued.
IV-28
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 1.7 3.8 6.6 6.7 ... ... ...
Malaysia -.9 5.3 7.2 8.4 ... ... ...Philippines 3.6 5.8 3.2 7.0 ... ... ...Singapore -6.0 3.0 -9.8 17.3 ... ... ...Thailand 2.2 6.4 3.5 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia3.7 -1.1 -2.5 .8 -2.7 -.5 n.a.
Malaysia -4.1 4.6 4.3 2.1 -.6 2.1 n.a.Philippines -5.7 -6.1 1.7 -1.3 -1.9 -6.4 n.a.Singapore -11.6 8.5 -4.9 6.5 18.0 -11.9 16.3Thailand 1.3 8.5 3.4 -.7 -3.6 4.6 2.4
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Indonesia 25.4 25.9 29.2 26.7 25.7 25.8 25.4
Malaysia 14.2 13.5 20.8 15.0 17.0 11.8 n.a.Philippines -.9 -.2 -1.2 -.4 -1.0 1.7 n.a.Singapore 5.8 8.7 13.2 18.7 14.5 22.8 13.8Thailand 2.5 3.4 5.8 3.7 1.6 5.2 .9
n.a.  Not available.
IV-29
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20011200212003
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Indonesia 12.5 10.0 7.0 6.1 6.2 6.2 5.3
Malaysia 1.2 1.7 .9 1.0 1.1 1.3 n.a.Philippines 4.1 2.6 3.0 3.1 2.9 3.1 n.a.Singapore -.6 .4 .2 .5 .7 .6 n.a.Thailand .8 1.6 1.8 1.9 1.7 1.2 1.8
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available
In Mexico , incoming data since the last Gr eenbook have been mixed.  Real GDP
contracted nearly 1½ percent in th e third quarter, reflecting persistent
sluggishness in the manufacturing s ector, where output shrank by about
8 percent.  Service-oriented sectors ha ve performed better, with wholesale and
retail trade and the financia l services sector posting a gain of about 4 percent
each.  Exports appear to have sharpl y accelerated in October, rising over
2 percent at a monthly rate.  This, together with a slight decline in theunemployment rate and the fact that business confidence has held up, suggests
that the economy may have started to turn  around in the fourth quarter.  Twelve-
month inflation remains near the upper end of the government’s 2-4 percent
target range.  
In early November, the government sent  to congress an austere budget proposal
that aims to cut the public sector defi cit from this year’s 0.6 percent of GDP to
0.3 percent of GDP.  The government deci ded to incorporate a fiscal reform in
the proposed budget that includes the introduction of a VAT on food andmedicine.  The VAT proposal, however , has been rejected by the main
opposition party (the PRI), which has sub mitted an alternative plan expected to
generate only half the extr a revenue of the governme nt’s proposal (0.4 percent
instead of 0.8 percent of GDP).  Ne gotiations about the budget have been
complicated by widening divisions within the PRI. 
IV-30
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP1-1.5 2.0 4.9 -1.4 ... ... ...
Overall economic activity -.1 .9 .6 -.2 -.5 .1 n.a.
Industrial production -3.2 -.1 -.1 -1.3 .2 -.6 n.a.
Unemployment rate22.5 2.7 3.0 3.6 3.7 3.6 3.5
Consumer prices3 4.4 5.7 4.7 4.1 4.0 4.0 3.9
Trade balance4-10.0 -7.9 -7.5 -6.3 -6.3 -3.6 -3.7
Imports4168.4 168.7 168.8 170.0 169.7 168.2 171.9
Exports4158.4 160.8 161.2 163.6 163.3 164.6 168.1
Current account5-18.1 -14.0 -5.6 -8.6 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Brazil , real GDP rose 1.6 percent in the third quarter, following two quarters
of declines.  Growth was led by a str ong increase in industrial output.  Monthly
indicators have pointed to continued growth  into the fourth quarter, partly driven
by special circumstances.  Auto producti on and sales rose in October for the
second consecutive month, due to a te mporary tax break.  Suggesting an
improvement in domestic demand, October federal g overnment tax revenues
were strong.  Unemployment, however, remains high. Brazil has continued to
register sizeable trade surpluses. 
Prompted by a continued favorable infl ation trend, the central bank reduced its
overnight interest rate, the Selic, by 100 basis point s in late October and by
another 150 basis points in late N ovember.  The Selic now stands at
17.5 percent, down from 26.5 percent last June.  The government’s inflation
target for 2004 is 5½ percent (plus or mi nus 2½ percentage points).  According
to the central bank’s survey of forecasters, twelve-month-ahead expectedinflation has fallen from 12 percent ear ly this year to under 6 percent.
IV-31
In mid-November, Brazil reached a tentative agreement with the IMF on a one-
year extension of its $30 billion program, which was to expire at the end of this
year.  The program would make ava ilable $14½ billion on a precautionary basis
(i.e., Brazil will only draw the funds if economic and fi nancial conditions
worsen), including $8 billion not yet disbursed from the current program.  Brazilwould also obtain a one-year extens ion on about $4 billion in payment
obligations to the Fund due in 2005-06.  In return, Brazil would be required to
maintain the current target for the primary fiscal surplus of 4¼ percent of GDPfor the consolidated public sector, preserve  its flexible exchange rate regime, and
make progress on needed bankruptcy  and other structural reforms.
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Real GDP1-.8 3.7 -4.7 1.6 ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.6 2.5 -2.5 1.8 4.3 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
212.4 12.5 12.1 13.0 13.4 13.4 n.a.
Consumer prices37.7 12.5 16.9 15.2 15.1 14.0 n.a.
Trade balance42.7 13.1 24.6 26.8 25.6 27.0 26.0
Current account5-23.2 -7.7 1.6 13.2 16.1 1.0 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Break in October 2001 as a result of change in methodology.  Thus, 2001 is
average for Q4 only.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , economic recovery has continue d.  Real GDP rose 6.6 percent in
the second quarter.  Although industrial production fell in September as a result
of weaker-than-expected performances of some basi c industries (mainly metals
and plastics), it was up 2.6 percent in Oc tober.  Twelve-month consumer price
inflation remained low in October, at 3.9 percent.  
In late October, Argen tina’s congress approved the issuance of up to 2.8 billion
pesos ($977 million) in bonds to compensate  the banking sector for last year’s
asymmetric indexation of a ssets and liabilities.  The law, part of the recent 
agreement with the IMF, is considered crucial for stabilizing the banking sector. Argentina has met all of the quantitative criteria of its IMF program and has
IV-32
made some advances in structural refo rms.  The country, however, has yet to 
show that it is pursuing debt restructur ing negotiations with private creditors in
good faith.  The Argentine government’s  proposal of a 75 percent haircut has
already received a negative reaction from bondholders.
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP1 -10.3 -3.3 6.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -7.6 -10.6 .3 2.0 1.3 -1.3 2.6Unemployment rate
218.1 20.4 16.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -1.4 41.0 14.5 5.2 4.9 3.5 3.9
Trade balance47.5 16.7 19.0 15.1 15.5 13.6 15.9
Current account5-4.5 9.6 11.7 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data for Greater Buenos Aires.  Data released semi-annually.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Venezuela,  real GDP jumped around 32 percent in the third quarter, reflecting
the economy’s continued rebound from the st rikes that crippled the country in
late 2002 and early 2003.  The third-quart er increase, nevertheless, still puts
output 10 percent below its pre-strike level.  Recent anecdotal informationindicates that oil production, the main c ontributor to growth, remains below the
level prevailing before the strikes.  Twelve-month consumer price inflation inOctober was almost unchang ed at around 26 percent despite price controls and
the fixed exchange rate regime that was established last Febr uary.  News reports
that the government plans to devalue th e bolivar by 20 percent in coming months
seem to have contributed to inflationary  pressures.  In addition, some goods are
being imported at the black market exchange rate. 
In early December, political tensions heated up over the results of a petition
drive to force President Chavez to face a recall referendum.  Althoughopposition leaders announced that the drive was successful and that a
referendum would be held by April 2004, Chavez has challenged the results.  So
far, there has been little r eaction in financial markets.
IV-33
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022003
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Real GDP1 .9 -16.7 87.5 31.8 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 16.0 18.4 17.6 17.4 16.8 n.a.
Consumer prices312.3 31.2 34.3 29.5 26.5 25.7 26.1
Non-oil trade balance4-14.1 -8.5 -3.4 -5.2 ... ... ...
Trade balance47.6 13.0 18.3 15.5 ... ... ...
Current account52.1 7.4 13.4 11.1 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.