Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 6/05/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                  October 30, 2002
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                     October 30, 2002
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Domestic No nfinancial Dev elopments
Overview 
We now estimate that real GDP advanced at an annual rate of about 3 percent in 
the third quarter, but the ex pansion seems to ha ve slowe d going into the  fall. 
Althoug h housing  activity  remains a brig ht spot, consumer spending  has softened 
and business investment re mains slug gish, on balance. The number of jobs on 
private pay rolls has been unchang ed, on net, since J uly, while industrial 
production has edg ed down over the past  several months. Meanwhile, core 
consumer price inflation continues to trend down. 
Labor Mark et Devel opments 
Available evidence points to little chang e in labor demand in recent months. 
Private nonfarm pay roll employ ment fell in  September, erasing  most of Aug ust’s 
gain, and ag gregate hours rose only  enoug h in September to return them to their 
June level. In contrast, household em ployment rose 711,000 in September, and 
the unemploy ment rate edg ed down anothe r 0.1 percentag e point, to 5.6 percent. 
In the past, we have found th e pay roll data to be a more  reliable indicator of the 
state of the job market, and the othe r available information on labor market 
activity  seems more  consiste nt with the ir weak tone . 
All ma jor se ctors sha red in the  weakness in pay roll employ ment in September. 
Employ ment in manufacturin g and related industries (wholesale trade and help 
supply  services) fell for a third straig ht month after sig naling  last spring  that it 
might be turning  around. At the same time, services (outside of help supply ) and 
retail trade combined to add only  10,000 jobs, far fewer than the 38,000 per 
month averag e over t he first eight months of the y ear. 
Initial claims for unemploy ment insurance al so point to soft labor demand. On a 
published basis, initial claims  have averag ed 397,000 per week so far in October. 
However, the seasonal adjustment of these data appears to have  been distorted by 
the sharp increase in claims that fo llowed the events of September 11, 2001. 
Using  seasonal factors calculated with da ta throug h 2000 (which are therefore not 
influenced by  September 11), initial claims have averag ed 426,000 in recent 
weeks—considerably  above the le vels from early  in the summer. 
Layoff announcements tracked by  Challe nger, which are available throug h 
September, continued at about the same  pace that had prevailed earlier in the 
year. However, the lay off announcement series constructed by  Board staff, which 
goes back only  to 2001 but g enerally  tracks the movements in the Challeng er 
series, turned up in October. The NF IB’s index  of hiring  plans among  small 
businesses, which had impr oved over the summer, fell markedly in Se ptember, 
and the  Confe rence Board’s me asure of current job a vailability  as perceived by 
households weakened sig nificantly  in both September and October. Expectations 
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
about employ ment conditions also have deteriorated substantially , according  to 
both the Conference Board and Mi chigan survey s. 
Indust rial P roduc tion 
Activity  in the industrial sector has faltered in recent months after having  firmed 
in the first half of the y ear. Total IP fell 0.3 percent in Aug ust and dipped an 
additional 0.1 percent in September; the output of manufacturers was down in 
both months. Moreover, the available weekly  indicators point to another 
decrease in output in October: A drop in  motor ve hicle assemblie s is e xpected to 
shave 0.2 percentag e point from the chang e in overall I P, while available phy sical 
product data apart from those for motor vehi cles are ex pected to  subtract another 
0.2 percentag e point.1 
The softness in the industrial sector sin ce midy ear has been widespread. In the 
high-tech area, out put has cont inued t o rise in recent  months, but  much l ess rapi dly 
than it did earlier in the y ear. The diminution of g ains in semiconductor 
production has been noticeable and has re flected decelerations  in both the output 
of microprocessor units (M PUs) and the production of other ty pes of chips. 
Moreover, I ntel’s revenue outlook implies continued te pid demand for MPUs, and 
Motorola recently  lowered its forecas t for worldwide sales of cell phones in 
2002 from 400 million to 390 million; cell phones ar e larg e users of dig ital sig nal 
processors and fl ash m emory chips. Consistent with the recent  slowdown i n the 
demand for semiconductors, orders for semiconductor manufact uring  equipment 
have fal len back i n recent  months, ret racing much of t heir spurt  in the first half of 
the year. 
Elsewhere i n the hi gh-tech sect or, out put of communications equipment has 
continued to plummet. Althoug h demand for some ty pes of communication 
equipment has apparently  been buoy ed by a stabilization in the market for 
computer network equipment, demand for types of equipment used by  telecom 
service providers has continue d to contract sharply . Moreover, with inventories 
of com munications equi pment remaining very  high relative to the recent  pace of 
sales, and orders remaining  very  weak, producti on is unlikely  to rebound soon. 
Meanwhile, the production of computers has been on a steady  uptrend in recent 
months. However, the increases have  been relatively  subdued by  historical 
standards, and the near-t erm sales outlook remains an emic. For ex ample, on a 
seasonal ly adjusted basi s, Dat aquest  is current ly forecast ing that PC unit sales 
will fall about 7 percent (quart erly rate) in the fourth quarter after having  edged 
up 2 pe rcent in the  third. 
According  to the  latest estimates from Wa rd’s Communic ations, motor ve hicle 
assemblies are running  at an annual rate of 12.1 million units in October and are 
1. The phy sical pr oduct data outs ide of m otor vehicles  account for  14 per cent of I P. 
II-6
II-7
II-8
II-9
scheduled to averag e 12.5 million units fo r the fourth quarter as a whole, 
0.5 million units below the very  robust thir d-quarter pace. Inventories of lig ht 
vehicles remain on the lean side, with  days’ supply  at 62-1/2 at the end of 
September. However, l ight vehi cle sales have t umbled in recent  months, and t he 
automa kers apparently expect sales to re main soft throug h the fall. In addition, 
parts shortag es related to  the W est Coast port lockout forced several domestic 
assembly  plants to reduce output or to  shut down during  the first two weeks of 
October, which, according  to W ard’s estimates, reduced assemblies roug hly 
200,000 units (annual rate).2 All of the affected plants resumed normal 
production by  October 14, but automakers have not y et decided whether to make 
up the lost output. Motor vehicle production this quarter is also being  restrained 
by a reduction in the output of heavy  trucks, which had been boosted earlier this 
year by  a surg e in demand in advance of  the new EPA reg ulations on diesel truck 
engines. The new reg ulations went into effect October 1. 
Produc tion of D omestic Autos and Tr ucks 
(Millions of  units at an annual rate ex cept as noted; FRB seasonal basis) 
Item 2002 
Q2 Q3 
U.S. production 12.4 13.0 2002 
July Aug. Sept. Q41 Oct.1 
12.5 13.2 12.9 12.7 12.1 
Autos  5.2  5.1  5.0  5.4  5.1  4.9  4.8 
Truck s  7.2  7.8  7.5  7.8  7.8  7.8  7.3 
Total day s’ supply2 61.1  56.1  n.a.  53.9  49.3  62.5  n.a. 
Inventories3 2.61  2.61  n.a.  2.57  2.47  2.61  n.a. 
Note. Com ponents  may not s um to totals  becaus e of rounding . 
1. Production r ates reflect W ard’s Communicati ons’ lates t estimates  for Q4 and O ctober . 
2. Quarterly average calculated using  end- of-period stock s and av erage reported sales. 
3. End-of-period s tocks; excludes  medium and heav y trucks (classes 3-8). 
n.a. Not available. 
Elsewhere in manufacturing , production has declined, on ba lance, in the past two 
months, pulled down by  cutbacks in a large number of categ ories, including 
commercial aircraft, non-auto  consumer g oods, and se veral ty pes of business 
equipment. Indeed, the three-month diffusion index  of industrial production, 
2. Other scatter ed reports sug gest that the W est Coast lock out has adv ersely affected 
production in a v ariety of other  indus tries, including  aircraft, food,  and fur niture. However, we 
do not believ e these effects  mater ially reduced ov erall pr oduction outs ide of motor  vehicles  in 
late S eptember  and O ctober . 
II-10
II-11
which had soared in the first half of th e year as I P gathered st eam, has si nce 
retraced about half of that increase and is now below 50. 
Recently  released indicators of future activity  in the indus trial sector remain 
downbeat. The staff’s seri es on real adjusted durable g oods orders, which is 
derived from the Census data  on new orders, declined in September for a second 
month; most other measures of new or ders reported by  businesses, such as 
diffusion index es from the I nstitute  for Supply  Manag ement and F RB 
Philadelphia, point to little chang e in new booking s since J uly. After having 
hovered at the relatively  low level of 11,000 in Aug ust and September, the series 
on announced manufacturing  layoffs comp iled by  the B oard staff jumped in 
October to the hig hest level since last J anuary . 
New  Orders for Du rable Good s 
(Percent chang e from preceding  period ex cept as noted; seasonally  adjusted) 
Com ponent Share, 
2001: 
H1 
(percent) 2002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept. 
Total orders 100.0 -.4 2.8 8.5 -.6 -5.9 
Adjusted orders1 76.2 .7 1.4 9.3 -4.1 -4.5 
Com puters 4.5 -5.0 10.0 13.0 0.0 9.3 
Com munication equipm ent 4.1 -3.3 -22.7 12.3 -3.0 -56.4 
Other capital g oods 24.5 2.4 .9 5.0 -.5 -3.0 
Other2 43.1 .5 2.7 11.1 -6.3 -3.1 
MEMO 
Real adjusted  orders  . . . 1.0 2.0 9.8 -3.9 -4.4 
Excluding  high tech  . . . .9 1.2 10.4 -4.6 -5.7 
1. Orders excluding  defens e capital g oods , nondefens e aircraft, and motor  vehicle 
parts. 
2. Primary metals , mos t fabricated meta ls, mos t stone, clay , and g lass products , 
hous ehold appliances , scientific ins truments, and mis cellaneous  durable g oods . 
. . . Not applicable. 
Consum er Spending 
We estimate that consumer spending rose at an annual rate of about 4 percent in 
the third quarter, boosted by robust purchases of motor vehicles. However, 
recent spending data have been soft across the board, and with the fundamentals—if anything—weakening, consumption appears to be entering the 
fourth quarter with little momentum. 
II-12
II-13
After having exceeded 18 million units at an annual rate in July and August, sales 
of light motor vehicles dropped to 16.2 million units in September, and 
confidential reports from the manufacturers indicate some further slippage in 
October. The earlier surge in sales was attributable largely to the exceptionally 
heavy discounts offered on the 2002 models; essentially all of these models have now been sold.
3 In September, the incentives on the 2003 models were 
considerably less rich. In October, General Motors sweetened the incentives on 
many of its 2003 models, but early indications have been that the response has remained tepid. Consumer assessments of car-buying conditions in the Michigan 
survey remained quite favorable in October, but the share of Conference Board survey respondents who plan to purchase a new vehicle has fallen noticeably from its recent peak in August. 
Real consumer spending  on non-auto g oods also seems to have lost some of its 
steam in recent  months. In September, nom inal sales at stores i n the cont rol 
category of re tail sales, which ex cludes spending  at motor vehicle and parts 
dealers and at building  material and s upply  stores, fell 0.2 pe rcent after having 
risen just 0.2 percent per month in J uly and Aug ust. Sales declined across most 
types of re tailers in Se ptember. Moreover, outlay s at chain stores remained 
sluggish in October. 
Outlay s on services, too, have been on a weaker path of late, increasing  only 
0.1 percent per month, on averag e, in J uly and Aug ust (the most recent data 
available). In September, a decl ine in stock market trading  volumes sug gests that 
brokerag e spending  fell, while weather data indicate a likely  pick-up in 
electricity dem and. 
Gains in real household in comes have tapered off in  recent months. After a 
spectacular increase in the  first qua rter of this y ear (in pa rt attributa ble to the 
reduction in tax  payments rela ted to last y ear’s tax  legislation) and g ains of about 
0.4 percent per month, on averag e, in the second quarter, g rowth of real DPI  fell 
to a monthly  rate of 0.1 percent, on aver age, in J uly and Aug ust. The B EA’s 
current estimate for the persona l saving  rate in Aug ust is 3.6 percent, in the upper 
part of the rang e seen in the past few y ears. The updrift in the saving  rate over 
this period is consistent with the cons iderable drop in house hold wealth relative 
to DPI  since early  2000, coupled with a de layed response of spending  to the 2001 
tax act. 
3. According to J.D. Power and Associates, the average incentive per vehicle was about 
$1,300 in late October—about the same as was offered in June, but about $250 less than in 
July and August.  The declin e in the average incentive since th e summer larg ely reflects th e 
shift in the compos ition of s ales from 2002 m odels , which w ere offer ed with unus ually  high 
discounts , to 2003 models , which come w ith smaller discounts . 
II-14
II-15
II-16
II-17
Consum er confi dence has det eriorated recent ly. After several  months of sm all 
declines, the Michigan Surve y Research Center’s inde x of consume r sentime nt fell 
nearly  6 points in October, while the Conference Board’s m easure sl umped m ore 
than 14 points.4 These index es are currently  at their lowest levels since 1993. 
While households became more pessimistic about most aspects of the economy  in 
October, the slump in sentiment in larg e part reflected a loss of confidence about 
the business outlook in the near term. 
Housing Markets 
Recent readings on housing activity have been strong. Starts of single-family 
homes shot up to a twenty-three-year high of 1.48 million units in September. 
Permit issuance for single-family construction—adjusted to account for activity in 
areas where permits are not required—also jumped last month; although the 
increase was less than for starts, it, too, was consistent with a vigorous pace of 
building. In the multifamily sector, new homes were started at an annual rate of 
366,000 units in September. This level is somewhat above the average since 
January, but it is unlikely to be sustained, as the vacancy rate for multifamily rental units stands at one of its highest levels since the late 1980s. 
New home sales remained brisk in September, edging up to a record level of 1.02 million units at an annual rate. Sales of existing homes also moved up, to an 
annual rate of 5.4 million units. An alternative seasonally adjusted series 
constructed by the staff, which accounts for trading-day variation, shows existing 
home sales of 5.54 million units in September, a rate only a touch below the 
exceptional average pace of the first half of the year. 
Mortgage rates have backed up recently but still are among the lowest in at least thirty years. The average rate on a thirty-year fixed-rate mortgage now stands a 
bit above 6-1/4 percent, and the average initial rate on a thirty-year adjustable rate mortgage is just a touch above 4-1/4 percent. Households’ assessments of 
homebuying conditions in the Michigan survey, the rating of new home sales by home builders, and the Mortg age Bankers’ Association index  of purchase 
applic ations for home  mortg ages all remained quite  favorable in Oc tober, 
suggesting  that low mortg age rates are still offsetting  the drag  on housing  demand 
from weak labor demand a nd falling  household wealth. 
Most measures of home prices have conti nued to re cord solid g ains of la te, like ly 
reflecting  the streng th of demand. The constant-quality  price index  for new 
homes—which adjusts for chang es in g eographic composition, home siz e, and 
other amenities—rose 3.8 percent over the four quarters ending  in the third 
4. The two index es are scaled differ ently, but adjus ting for that fact,  their  declines  in 
October  were compar able,  and their  general contour s over the las t several months  have been 
consistent w ith one another . 
II-18
II-19
II-20
II-21
quarter, a bit less than the average increase in the first half of the year but still in 
the middle of the range of price increases over the past three years. In addition, 
the year-over-year rate of increase in the median price of existing homes was 7.2 percent in the third quarter, only a shade below the rapid first-half pace. 
Business F ixed Investm ent 
Equipm ent and Soft ware. On balance, real outla ys on equipment and software 
appear to have posted a m odest advance in the third quarter, with considerable 
unevenness among  the major components. Real outlay s for computers and 
software moved up at a fair ly rapid clip, as did outlay s for motor vehicles; but 
investment in communications g ear and ai rcraft continued to sink, and spending  on 
equipment outside of hig h tech and transportation was lackluster. The 
fundamentals of investment  seem to have improved, as business output and 
corporate cash flow have continued to rise.5 Howe ver, pessimism a nd 
uncertainty  about the streng th or durability  of the economic recovery  and concerns 
about g eopolitical developments are still restraining  capital investment. 
In the hig h-tech sector, nominal shipme nts of computing  equipment dropped back 
in Aug ust and September after having  surg ed in July. Even so, t hey increased at 
an annual rate of more than  25 percent in the third quarter as a whole. And with 
compute r prices falling roug hly 20 pe rcent pe r year, this nomina l rise implie s a 
gain in real computer ex penditures in ex cess of 40 percent at an annual 
rate—more than twice the advance recorded  in the second quarter. Real spending 
on softwa re likely increased in the  third qua rter as well, g iven the strong  increase 
in revenue report ed by Microsoft  and t he accel eration in spendi ng on hardware. 
In contrast, prospects for communications  equipment remain bleak, with nominal 
shipments falling  at an annua l rate of 25 percent in th e third quarter and orders 
(net of cancellations) down more than 50 percent (not at an annual rate) in 
September. We believe that at least so me of this steep decline in orders may 
reflect the cancellation of orders that had been on the books for some time and 
were unlike ly to tra nslate into shipme nts. 
Apart from the  high-tech and tra nsporta tion se ctors, nomina l shipme nts fe ll 
2 percent in September but rose at an a nnual rate of 2-3/4 pe rcent in the third 
quarter as a whole, consistent with a sm all increase in real spending . Booking s 
in this broad-based categ ory, which had jumped in J uly and were about flat in 
August, fe ll 3 pe rcent in Se ptember, a pattern consiste nt with little  change in re al 
spending  in the fourth quarter. 
5. In addition,  accor ding to business contacts,  the par tial ex pensing  tax provision enacted 
last Mar ch has  encour aged some additional capital ex penditur es. 
II-22
II-23
II-24
II-25
Recent  devel opments in the transport ation equi pment sector have been m ixed. 
Spending  on aircraft appa rently fell sha rply again in the  third qua rter, while 
business spending for motor vehicles seems to have posted a hefty increase owing 
in part to the automakers’ attractive incentives on light vehicles. On a quarterly-
average basis, fleet sales of light vehicles were the highest in more than a year, and sales of medium and heavy trucks were nearly 8 percent (quarterly rate) above their second-quarter level.  However, with the new EPA reg ulations for 
heavy  truck eng ines now i n place, t he three-m onth moving averag e of orders for 
medium and heavy  trucks (c lass 5 to 8) ha s fallen sha rply after a surg e earlier this 
year, and it now stands at its lowe st level in se veral years. 
Nonresidential construction. Data on construction put in place in July and 
August imply another big decline in spending on nonresidential construction in the 
third quarter; spending dropped considerably for office, industrial, institutional, 
and other commercial structures. Moreover, advance indicators do not suggest 
much improvement going forward. In particular, according to estimates from 
Torto Wheaton, vacancy rates of office and industrial buildings continued to rise in the third quarter, while the amount of space demanded in office and industrial 
buildings was little changed. Conditions in the non-office commercial sector also 
remained bleak through mid-year: property values and rents for retail space were unchanged in the second quarter, and those for warehouses posted another 
decline. 
Business Inventories 
The incoming  data provide a further indi cation that the inventory  liquidation that
began in early  2001 is ending . Indeed, the book value of manufacturing  and trade
inventories ex cluding  motor vehicles, which had fallen at an annual rate of
$12 billion in the second quarter, increased  at a $6 billion annual rate in Aug ust
after having  risen nearly  $30 billion in  July. Manufacturin g stocks were little
chang ed for a second month in Aug ust. Non-auto wholesalers continued to build
stocks, paced by  accumulations at di stributors of electrical g oods and of
professional and comme rcial equipme nt. Following  a sharp inc rease in July,
non-auto retail inventories c ontracted in Aug ust for the first time since March,
reflecting  liquidations at stores carry ing general merchandise and clothing . Data
for September are limited to stocks at  durable g oods manufacturers, which
declined $6 billion at an annual rate , about the same as in Aug ust. 
Overal l, busi nesses appear to have remained very  attentive  in the ir inve ntory
manag ement. Imbalances have been wo rked off in all but a few industries;
aggregate invent ory-sales ratios ar e at, or near, historic lows.
Government Sector
Federal sector. Monthly  data indicate that the deterioration in the federal
government’s unified budg et has slowed as a result of some stabilization on the 

II-26
II-27
receipts side of the ledg er. Legislativ e actions on the budg et for fiscal 2003 are 
deadlocked over spending  levels fo r nondefense discretionary  prog rams. 
The federal g overnment recorded a $42 billion unified surplus in September, 
compared with a $36 billion surplus last y ear. After accounting  for pay ment 
timing  shifts a nd certain othe r transitory  factors, the  surplus wa s essentially the 
same as it had been in S eptember 2001. Adjusted receipts were 6 percent above 
the y ear-earlier level as a hefty  increase in withheld tax es and a pickup in g ross 
corporate pay ments more than offset  the continued w eakness in nonwithheld 
personal income tax  payments. Spending  remained on a strong  uptrend in 
September, with many  major categ ories—notably , defense, Medicaid, and income 
security —posting  double-dig it increases relativ e to the previous y ear. For fiscal 
year 2002 as a whole, the unified budg et recorded a deficit of $159 billion, the 
first deficit after four  years of surpluses. 
The C ongress has recessed for mid-term elections after having  passed the fiscal 
2003 defense and military  cons truction appropriations bills and a continuing 
resolution that provides te mporary  funding  for nondefens e discretionary  spending 
throug h November 22. The House a nd Senate leadersh ip remain about 
$12 billion apart on the overall level of nondefense budg et authority , relative to a 
base of roug hly $400 billion. (The Senate is working  with the hig her fig ure.) 
The Cong ress will return for a lame-duc k session after the election, but how and 
when the budg etary  differences will be reso lved is not clear. In the House, the 
appropriations committee has been unable to pass nondefense spending  bills that 
are consistent with the string ent require ments of that chamber’s budg et resolution; 
that resolution, approved earlier this y ear, capped total discre tionary  spending  at 
about the level proposed by  the Administra tion. In contrast, the Senate could not 
pass a budg et resolution, but its appropr iations committee has passed all thirteen 
regular appropriations bills. Meanwhile, the current continuing  resolution funds 
many  prog rams at levels below both the House and Senate proposals. 
The framework of discretionary  spending  caps and pay -as-you-go (PAYGO) 
rules that was established by  the B udget Enforcement Act of 1990 ex pired at the 
end of September. The Senate has ex tended throug h April 15, 2003, the PAYGO 
rules that g overn its consid eration of leg islation affec ting mandatory  spending  and 
taxes. By taking  this action, the S enate keeps in place the six ty-vote hurdles for 
considering  mandatory  spendi ng and tax  provisions that do not pay  for themselves 
with offsetting  chang es or are not c overed by  a budg et resolution, including 
pending  legislation on Medicare provider re lief and drug  benef its and a further 
continuation of ex tended unemploy ment be nefits. 
State and local governm ents. Real state and l ocal spending  on consumption and 
investment appears to have  risen only  modestly  in th e third quarter after having 
declined a bit in the second quarter. On averag e, employ ment increased just 
II-28
II-29
16,000 per month between J une and September, about as fast as during  the first 
half of the y ear but well below the rapid 39,000 monthly  averag e recorded in 
2001. In addition, real construction m oved up only  a little in J uly and Aug ust 
after having  fallen in  the second quarter. 
State budg et positions have worsened sig nificantly  over the past couple of y ears, 
and Medicaid has been a contributing  factor.6 Notably , state outlay s on Medicaid 
(net of federal g rants) rose about 12 percent per y ear in fiscal 2001 and 2002, 
after having  risen an averag e of only  about 5 percent per y ear during  the 
preceding  four y ears. Several factor s have contributed to the acceleration, 
including  an inc rease in enrollme nts as a result of hig her unemploy ment and 
expanded outreach prog rams initiated several y ears ag o, strong  demand for new 
prescription drug s, and hig her prices of medical care services. In response, 
states have taken a variety of me asures to curb spe nding , including  limits on 
servi ces, cont rols on pharm aceut icals, adj ustments to provi der pay ments and 
increases i n pat ient co-pay ments. After building in these cut s, states ex pect the 
rise in Medicaid outlay s to slow to 7 pe rcent in fiscal 2003, a targ et that may  be 
diffic ult to a chieve at a time  whe n priva te health insura nce costs a re expected to 
rise at double-dig it rates. 
Prices 
Core consumer price inflation continue s to trend down. The CPI  excluding  food 
and energ y rose only  2.2 percent over the twelve months ending  in September, 
0.4 percentag e point less than in the preceding  twelve-month period. The total 
CPI was up only  1.5 percent from a y ear earlie r, held down by  declines in energ y 
prices last fall. In recent  months, cons umer energ y prices have been m oving up 
again. 
The ri se in consum er pri ces for energ y in recent  months pri marily reflected a 
further step-up in the cost of crude oil. Survey  data point to another increase in 
consume r energy prices in Oc tober, ste mming  mainly from a n upturn in re finers’ 
markups, which have jumped as invent ories of g asoline and heating  oil have 
dwindled from the top end to the bottom end of their normal rang e.7 In natural g as 
markets, spot prices increased in late  September and early October as production 
and stockbuilding  were disrupted  by storms in the Gulf of Mex ico. Even so, the 
level of na tural gas inve ntorie s is still quite  high, and future s pric es for this 
winter do not appear to have been pushe d up. Thus, the hig her spot prices do not 
necessarily imply  significantly higher consumer prices this winter. 
6. Because Medicaid is a tr ansfer program, it is not included in state and local 
consumption s pending . However, it mak es up mor e than 12 per cent of s tate g eneral fund 
spending . 
7. Inventories declined in par t owing to dis ruptions  in refining  and pipeline activ ity caus ed 
by Hurricane L ili. 
II-30
II-31
II-32
II-33
Althoug h prices for consumer foods edg ed up in September, the total increase 
over the twelve months ending  in Sept ember was only  1.3 percent, compared with 
an increase of 3.1 percent in the previous  twelve-month period. In particular, the 
droug ht during  this g rowing  season in many  agricultural reg ions contributed to a 
selloff of live stock tha t helped to re strain retail pric es of me at and poultry  for 
much of the  summe r, even as it lifte d crop pric es. 
Consumer prices ex cluding food and energ y rose just  0.1 percent in September 
after a 0.3 percent increase in Aug ust. Prices for core commodities were flat on 
balance in September, and for the y ear as a whole, they  fell 1.1 percent after 
having shown little  change during  the previous y ear. Core  service prices, whic h 
also rose only  0.1 percent in September,  were held down by  relatively  small 
increases in tenants’ rent and owners’ equivalent rent and outrig ht de clines in 
airfares and in the price of lodg ing away  from home. However, the twelve-month 
chang e in core service prices was 3.6 percent, down only  0.2 percentag e point 
from the previous twelve months. 
Data for t he core P CE chai n price index  are avai lable onl y throug h Aug ust, when 
the twelve-month chang e slowed to 1.7 pe rcent, compared with 2.0 percent over 
the previous twelve months.8 The market-based com ponent of core PCE prices 
has shown a similar deceleration, with the twelve-month chang e dropping  from 
1.7 percent in Aug ust 2001 to 1.4 percent in Aug ust 2002. The chained CPI 
excluding  food and energ y has decelerat ed somewhat less—from 1.8 percent over 
the twelve months ending  in Septem ber 2001 to 1.7 percent in September 2002. 
Like the PCE pri ce m easure, t he chai ned C PI uses an ag gregation form ula that 
takes substitution into account, but it uses weig hts that appear to be less accurate 
than those  in the  PCE me asure; it also appears to be  more  vola tile. 
With the  slowing  in core infla tion ove r the past y ear, consumer ex pectations of 
near-term inflation have eased a little . The most recent reading  from the 
Michigan survey  indicates that median year-ahead i nflation ex pectations rem ained 
at 2.5 percent in October—a touch belo w the reading s over the spring  and 
summer. However, t he m edian ex pectation for inflation five to ten y ears ahead 
rebounded to 2.8 percent in October afte r having  dipped in September; the 
October reading was simila r to le vels seen from J anuary throug h Aug ust. 
Since the September Greenbook, commod ity prices have chang ed little, on 
balance. The Journal of Commerce  index  edged up 0.5 percent in the four weeks 
ending  October 29; over the same pe riod, the Commodity  Research B ureau’s 
index  of industrial material  prices rose 0.6 percent. The PPI  for intermediate 
8. Looking ahead to S eptem ber, the cor e PCE pr ice index  will show a very large incr ease 
from the S eptember  2001 lev el, which w as held dow n by adjus tments  to ins urance pr ices 
associated w ith the S eptem ber 11 ter rorist attack s. 
II-34
II-35
II-36
II-37
materials ex cluding  food and energ y was flat in September, and has risen only 
0.6 percent over the past y ear. 
Very little  informa tion on la bor c osts ha s been released sinc e the September 
Greenbook. Averag e hourly  earning s of production or nonsupervisory  workers 
on private nonfarm pay rolls rose 0.3 pe rcent in September after a similar 
increase in Aug ust. Over the twelve m onths ended in September, averag e hourly 
earning s rose 3 percent, 1 percentag e point less than over the previous twelve-
month period. 
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1 
Selected Financial Market Quotations 
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted) 
Change to Oct. 29 from 
2000 2001 2002 2002 selected dates (percentage points) 
Instrument 2000 2001 2002 
June 26 Sept. 10 Sept. 23 Oct. 29 June 26 Sept. 10 Sept. 23 
Short-term 
FOMC intended federal funds rate 6.50 3.50 1.75 1.75 -4.75 -1.75 .00 
Treasury bills 1 
3-month 5.66 3.19 1.62 1.48 -4.18 -1.71 -.14 
6-month 5.94 3.13 1.59 1.43 -4.51 -1.70 -.16 
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates) 
1-month 6.56 3.42 1.72 1.74 -4.82 -1.68 .02 
3-month 6.56 3.24 1.70 1.68 -4.88 -1.56 -.02 
Large negotiable CDs 1 
1-month 6.64 3.46 1.77 1.76 -4.88 -1.70 -.01 
3-month 6.73 3.26 1.76 1.69 -5.04 -1.57 -.07 
6-month 6.89 3.24 1.73 1.62 -5.27 -1.62 -.11 
Eurodollar deposits 2 
1-month 6.63 3.41 1.75 1.74 -4.89 -1.67 -.01 
3-month 6.69 3.26 1.74 1.71 -4.98 -1.55 -.03 
Bank prime rate 9.50 6.50 4.75 4.75 -4.75 -1.75 .00 
Intermediate- and long-term 
U.S. Treasury3 
2-year 6.54 3.59 1.90 1.80 -4.74 -1.79 -.10 
10-year 6.35 5.14 4.00 4.27 -2.08 -.87 .27 
30-year 6.22 5.55 4.87 5.19 -1.03 -.36 .32 
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 4.09 3.26 2.17 2.42 -1.67 -.84 .25 
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 4 5.99 5.25 5.05 5.33 -.66 .08 .28 
Private instruments 
10-year swap 7.38 5.62 4.31 4.46 -2.92 -1.16 .15 
10-year FNMA 7.15 5.64 4.43 4.61 -2.54 -1.03 .18 
10-year AA 5 7.64 6.30 5.37 5.53 -2.11 -.77 .16 
10-year BBB 5 8.40 7.11 6.92 7.36 -1.04 .25 .44 
High yield 6 12.30 12.72 13.35 13.92 1.62 1.20 .57 
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 7 
30-year fixed 8.14 6.89 6.05 6.31 -1.83 -.58 .26 
1-year adjustable 7.22 5.64 4.28 4.30 -2.92 -1.34 .02 
Change to Oct. 29 
Record high 2001 2002 from selected dates (percent) 
Stock exchange index Record 2001 2002 
Level Date Sept. 10 Sept. 23 Oct. 29 high Sept. 10 Sept. 23 
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 9,606 7,872 8,369 -28.61 -12.87 6.31 
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 1,093 834 882 -42.25 -19.26 5.81 
Nasdaq (OTC) 5,049 3-10-00 1,695 1,185 1,301 -74.24 -23.29 9.76 
Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 441 359 369 -39.18 -16.36 2.77 
Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 10,104 7,908 8,308 -43.68 -17.78 5.05 
1. Secondary market. 
2. Bid rates for Eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time. 
3. Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities. 
4. Most recent Thursday quote. 
5. Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data. 
6. Merrill Lynch Master II high-yield bond. 
7. For week ending Friday previous to date shown. 
_______________________________________________________________________ 
NOTES: 
June 26, 2000, is the day before the FOMC meeting that ended the most recent period of policy tightening.
September 10, 2001, is the day before the terrorist attacks.
September 23, 2002, is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting.
_______________________________________________________________________ 
BA:DAM 
Selected Interest Rates
Selected Short-Term Interest Rates 
Percent 
7.5 
Daily 
Discount rate 
Federal funds 2-year Treasury 
Oct. 
29 6.5 
5.5 
4.5 
3.5 
2.5 
1.5 
Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep 
2000 2001 2002 
Selected Long-Term Interest Rates 
Percent
Daily 
10-year BBB 
30-year Municipal* 
10-year Treasury Oct. 29 9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May Jul Sep 
2000 2001 2002 
*Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency. 
Expected Federal Funds Rates Estimated from Treasury Yield Curve 
Financial Futures Percent Percent 
3.5 
October 29, 2002 
September 23, 2002 7 
October 29, 2002 September 23, 2002 6 
3.0 
5 
2.5 
4 
2.0 3 
21.5 
1 
Oct Feb Jun Oct Feb Jun Oct 1357 10 20 30 
2002 2003 2004 Maturity in years 
Note. Estimates from federal funds and eurodollar futures rates with Note. Smoothed yield curve estimated using off-the-run Treasury 
an allowance for term premia and other adjustments. coupon securities. Yields shown are those on notional par Treasury 
securities with semi-annual payments. 
Domestic F inancial D evelopm ents
Overview 
Market  participants now ex pect an easi er path for Federal R eserve policy  going 
forwa rd tha n at the time  of the  last FOMC me eting, with substa ntial downwa rd 
revisions occurring  in recent day s on ne gative news about the economy  and press 
reports of the F OMC’s intention to eas e policy  before y ear-end. At the same 
time, stock prices have increased over th e intermeeting  period, as investors took 
third-quarter earning s announcements as evidence that worries  about corporate 
profits had been overdone. Longer-ter m bond y ields g enerally  rose as equity 
prices recovered, leaving  yields sig nificantly  higher on net. Bond spreads for 
lower-rated firms have widened since the last meeting , evidently  on heig htened 
concerns about corporate defaults. 
Borrowing  by nonfinancial corporations remained anemic as demand for business 
credit apparently  continued to be weak, banks further tightened lending  standards, 
and corpora te credit qua lity showe d few sig ns of improve ment. In contra st, 
mortg age debt continued its rapid as cent—spurred by  record-low mortg age 
interest rates—and consumer  debt climbed at a modera te pace. Debt issuance by 
state and local g overnments was strong , boosted by  low y ields and weaker tax 
revenues. Althoug h the fede ral budg et posted a small surplus in September, it is 
estimated to have returned to  a deficit position in Octobe r, and the pace of federal 
borrowing  has remained substantial. 
Policy Expectati ons, Stock Prices, an d Corp orate In terest Rates 
Market participants la rgely anticipated the F OMC’s decision on September 24 to 
maintain both an intended fe deral funds rate of 1-3/ 4 percent and a balance of 
risks assessment weig hted toward economic  weakness. Noneth eless, investors 
took the reference in the accompany ing statement to “the emerg ence of heig htened 
geopolitic al risks”  and the  disse nt of two me mbers who pre ferred a reduction in 
the targ et as imply ing monetary  policy  might be eased sometime soon. In the day s 
following , falling stock pric es led ma rket participants to ma rk down the ir 
expected path for short-te rm inte rest rates. Policy expectations reversed course 
with the subsequent rebound in equity  prices but have more than doubled back in 
recent day s with neg ative news about  the economy  and newspaper articles 
characteriz ing the F OMC as inclined to ease. Current future s quotes indicate that 
investors place sig nificant odds of a polic y easing  at this meeting . Anecdotal 
reports sug gest that among  investors that expect an easing , some are looking  for a 
quarter-point cut while others think a ha lf-point c ut is more  likely. Rates on 
eurodollar futures that settle in 2003 ar e down about 20 to 35 basis points since 
the previous me eting. 
On net, major equity  price index es rose  between 3 percent and 10 percent since 
the September meeting , after dropping to multiy ear lows in early  October on 
concerns over corporate earning s, the st rike by  the W est Coast dock workers, 
III-2
III-3
and mounting  odds of a war with I raq. Stock prices more than retraced these 
losses, as the third-quarter earning s repor ts were not as weak as investors had 
feared. The resulting  rise in pric es, along with downwa rd revisions to y ear-
ahead earning s, pushed the forward earning s-price ratio for the S& P 500 down a 
bit, but its g ap over the real Treasury yield—a measure of the equity  premium— 
has rem ained hi gh by the standards of recent  years. 
Short-term Treasury  yields have been  pulled down on net over the intermeeting 
period with the revisions to policy  expectations. Longer-term y ields on nominal 
Treasury  coupon securities g enerally  tracked  movements in the stock market, and 
yields on ten-y ear notes and thirty -year bonds were up about 30 basis points. 
Market participants also attribute  some of the rise to a reduction in hedg ing 
demand from mortg age-related investors. 
Corporate bond y ields also rose over the intermeeting  period. Yields on hig her-
quality  investment-g rade bonds moved about in line with the ten-y ear Treasury 
note, but spreads on B BB-rated and sp eculative-g rade bonds climbed to the 
highest levels in more than a decade before easi ng a bit. Wider spreads 
apparent ly reflected greater ex pected losses and a furt her pul lback from  risk-
taking. Some of the wi dening in the BBB s pread  can be  attributed specifically to 
the ballooning  of spreads on F ord and GM bonds after analy sts warned of 
declining  auto sa les and inc reased pension lia bilitie s. Market participants 
reported that overall liquidity  in the corporate bond market has been somewhat 
lower than usual, and auto-related bonds  at times were pa rticularly  illiquid; 
trading  conditions in the Treasury  market, however, were said to  be about normal. 
Risk spreads in the commercial paper market were about unchang ed over the 
intermeeting period. 
Busine ss Financ e 
Gross bond issuance by  nonfinancial firm s totaled only  $17 billion in September, 
a slight increase over t he anem ic Aug ust pace, and offeri ngs have rem ained l ight 
in October. Most of the issuance over the past two months has been by 
investme nt-grade electric and gas utilitie s apparently seeking to re duce short-te rm 
debt. Shorter-term credit for nonfinancial firms from C& I loans and commercial 
paper ran off further in Sept ember and October. On net,  the funds raised from the 
bond market, commercial pa per market, and C& I lending  were neg ative in 
September and appear to ha ve remained neg ative, but  less so, in October. 
Responses from the October Senior L oan O fficer Opinion Survey  indicate that the 
net percentag e of domestic  banks reporting  a decline in C& I loan demand moved 
up slig htly to around 50 percent, sug gesting that demand for loans continued to 
weaken. In addition, banks reporte d some additional net tig htening 
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
of terms and standards. The net percentag e of ba nks reporting  tighter lending 
standards to larg e and middle-market firms edg ed down, but the net percentag e 
tightening  standards on loans to small businesses rose. 
Weak stock prices have continued to put  a damper on funds raised in the equity 
markets. The little public equity  issuance of late came mostly  from energ y 
compa nies apparently seeking to pa y down debt. There were no I POs by 
nonfinancial corporations in Aug ust and September—the first two-month droug ht 
since 1978. In October, a few start-ups ventured into the I PO market, and the 
number of firms reg istering  to issue e quity  in the coming  weeks has risen, but 
issuance rem ained l ight. Meanwhi le, the pace of equi ty retirements appears t o 
have weakened as t he slump in cash-fi nanced merg ers has continued and share 
repurchases are estimated to ha ve softe ned. As a result, ne t equity  issua nce is 
estimated to ha ve been a little  less ne gative in Oc tober than in the  third qua rter. 
Corporate earning s continued their slow turnaround. With third-quarter reports in 
for nearly  400 S& P 500 companies, the cu rrent estimate of S&P 500 earning s per 
share shows 13.5 percent g rowth from the th ird quarter of last  year, which implies 
only a small increase from the level in  the second quarter. Analy sts have 
continued to sig nificantly  mark down thei r expectations of y ear-ahead earning s 
growth but still appear to be looking  for sizable g ains. 
Lagging measures of the credit quality of nonfinancial companies have shown 
little or no improve ment of la te. The twelve-month a verage default ra te in 
September was just a shade below Aug ust’s record hig h. In addition, the 
recovery rate on all defaulted bonds in 2002, measured by the price of bonds at 
default, has averaged only 25 percent of par, down from 35 percent in 2001; the 
recent rate has been dragged down by especially low recovery rates for telecom bonds. With reg ard to bond rating s, net downg rades slowed in the third quarter 
but ballooned in October with the downg rades of F ord and GM. An ag gregate 
expected default frequency  (EDF ) based on firm-level data from KMV soared to a 
record hi gh at the end of S eptember because of l ower st ock pri ces and hi gher 
volatility . Althoug h this measure likely  fell in October g iven the stock price g ains 
in recent  weeks, i t remains at an ex tremely high level. 
Com mercial Real  Estate F inance 
Comme rcial mortg age debt is e stimated to ha ve increased at a brisk 8 pe rcent 
annual rate in the third quarter as firm s took advantag e of low mortg age interest 
rates to refi nance propert ies. Howeve r, accordi ng to the Oct ober S enior Loan 
Offic er Opinion Surve y, the demand by  firms for c omme rcial real estate loans at 
banks appears to have weakened consider ably since t he Aug ust survey . Focusi ng 
on the CMB S market, delinquency rates on CMB S have been about 
III-8
III-9
unchang ed in recent  months, and C MBS spreads rem ained at  the lower end of t he 
range observed since late 1998. As had been  anticipated for some time, at the end 
of September both F itch and Moody ’s dow ngraded CMB S backed by  properties 
with ina dequate terrorism insura nce. The downg rades did not appear to 
significantly limit the  ability  of mortg age lenders to se curitize  loans, as CMB S 
issuance has remained strong . 
House hold F inanc e 
Mortg age rates reached new lows dur ing the intermeeting  period, boosting  the 
already  high rate of refinancing s to a record $200 billion in October, as estimated 
from Home Mortg age Disclosure Act records.1 In addition, according  to the 
October Senior L oan Officer Opinion Su rvey, the frequency  and siz e of cash-out 
refinancing s have been substa ntially greater than reporte d in J anuary  of this y ear. 
Household mortg age debt is estimated to have g rown at an annual rate of about 
10-1/ 2 percent  in the third quart er, the sam e rapid pace as i n the first half of the 
year. Consumer credit g rew at an a nnual rate of 6 per cent, on par with its 
moderat e pace i n the first half of the year. Automobile com panies cont inued t o 
promote z ero percent financing  prog rams , raising  concerns among  some analy sts 
that the auto fina nce compa nies were extending  credit to more  marginal 
borrowers. Recent Federal Reserve data  provide some support for this view: 
The loan-to-va lue ratio for a utomobile  loans rose  sharply between Ma y and 
August. 
Indicators of household credit quality  moved sideway s in Septem ber and October. 
The rate of pe rsona l bankruptc y filing s bumpe d up in e arly October to its hig hest 
level in 2002, but more recently  the rate  has declined. Delinquency  rates on 
credit card pools and auto loans at fina nce companies were little chang ed during 
the summer. The household debt servi ce burden remained hig h in the third 
quarter, at a level just belo w the peak level in early  2001. 
Household net worth fell last  quart er for t he third quart er in a row, as a st eep 
drop in equity  prices outweig hed a mode rate g ain in house prices. The OF HEO 
repeat sales house price inde x is estimated to have increased at an annual rate of 
about 6-1/2 percent in the third quart er, down from an averag e annual rate of 
about 7-3/4 percent in the first half of  the y ear. Outflows from equity  mutual 
funds picked up in September but did not ma tch July’s record rate of withdrawals, 
and the pace of outflows has continued in  October. Bond mutual funds, however, 
had outsiz ed inflows in September fo r the third consecutive month, but they 
slowed considerably  in October. 
1. Recor ds collected by  the H ome Mor tgage Disclosur e Act (HMDA) are estim ated to 
cover 80 per cent of mor tgage originations . 
III-10
III-11

III-12
III-13
Treasu ry an d Agen cy Finance 
The federal budg et position turned to a sma ll surplus in September, allowing  the 
Treasury to pa y down ma rketable debt for the  first time  in five  months, but c urrent 
estimates point to a siz able deficit in Oc tober. The Treasury  accumulated larg er-
than-ex pected cash balances  at quarter-end. A portion of those cash balances 
were invested temporarily  in TT& L deposits at commercial banks, but the 
Treasury also continue d to utilize  its Te rm Investme nt Option prog ram, in whic h it 
auctions short-term deposits to banks. The market may  have become more 
comforta ble with this ne w instrume nt, as the bidding  was apparently a little  more 
aggressive than at auctions earlier this  year. The Treasury ’s announcement that it 
plans to offer $40 billion in new securitie s at its mid-quarter refunding  auctions 
next week was l argely in line wi th market expectations. 
With the  surg e in mortg age refinancing, inve stors c losely followe d the  interest 
rate ex posures of F annie Mae and F reddie Mac. Investor concern ebbed 
some what in early October after Fannie Mae reported it had substantially 
narrowed its duration g ap, but y ields on Fannie Mae bonds have continued to run 
several basis points hig her than on comp arable F reddie Mac bonds. On balance, 
spreads of ag ency yields over com parabl e-maturity Treasuri es rem ained el evated. 
State and Loc al Government Financ e 
Following the trend of recent  months, gross issuance of l ong-term debt  for new 
capital and advance refunding  was strong  in both Sept ember and October, boosted 
recently  by a portion of the $11 billion deal  from the State of California. The 
bond proceeds are being  used in part to re pay debt raised to pay  for electricity 
purchases during  the state’s electricity  crisis two y ears ag o. Municipal bond 
issuance, especially  advance refunding , has been bolstered by  low interest rates 
and possibly  also by  strong  support am ong voters for public investment. In 
addition, erosion in tax revenues may  have forced some state and local 
governments to rely  more on bond financ ing; in particular, short-term debt 
issuance surg ed in Oct ober. Decl ining tax revenues also have  contributed to a 
recent deterioration in muni cipal credit quality . Rating s downg rades of municipal 
debt spiked in October, but the bulk of the downg rades primarily  reflect a one-
notch cut from the top short-term ratin g for two larg e underwriters, who are 
oblig ated to buy  back these securities at  investors’ discre tion. Spreads of BBB­
to-AAA-rated municipal bond y ields have  risen over the intermeeting  period. 
Money and Bank C redit 
After fairly  robust g ains in the preced ing four months, the g rowth of M2 
decelerated in S eptember to a 5 percent annual rate , but it has picked up in 
III-14
III-15
October. The slowdown in M2 during  the intermeeting period has refl ected the 
waning  effects of previous interest rate cuts and lower g rowth of nominal 
spending . M2 was supported by  continue d strong  growth in liquid deposits that 
reflected some substitution out of re tail money  market funds and retail time 
deposits and a substantial boost from mortg age refinancing s. 
Bank credit g rowth decelerated in September, but to a still-brisk 10-3/4 percent 
rate, and appears to be sl owing  considerably  further in October. Nonetheless, 
loan g rowth has remained robust, driven almost entirely  by the continued streng th 
of household borrowing . Residential real estate loans continue to surg e, althoug h 
home equi ty loan g rowth has sl owed som ewhat  from  its dram atic pace duri ng the 
summe r. 
Earning s reports at the larg est bank holdi ng companies for the third quarter have 
been mix ed but strong  on balance. Profit gains we re generally attribute d to fe e 
income from mortg age and credit card lending . However, losses on loans to 
energ y and telecommunications firms sig nificantly  reduced profits at several 
holding  companies, and others reportedl y signaled concerns about the quality  of 
loans t o these sect ors. 
III-16
Appendix 
October 2002 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey 
The October 2002 Senior L oan Of ficer Opinion Surv ey on Bank  Lending  Practices 
focused on chang es in the supply  of and dem and f or bank  loans to businesses and 
households ov er the past three m onths.  In addition,  the surv ey contained three sets of 
supplem entary  questions.  The f irst set w as desig ned to clarif y the relativ e effects of 
supply  and dem and f orces on the observ ed runof f in C&I  loans ov er the f irst nine m onths 
of 2002.  The second set f ocused on the ex tent of  cash- out ref inancing  during  the recent 
boom  in m ortgage refinancing  activ ity and the behav ior of  average hom e prices ov er the 
past tw elve months.  In light of recent declines in bank  stock  prices and increases in y ields 
on outstanding  subordinated debt at som e larg e bank s, the f inal set of  special questions 
addressed chang es in bank s’ cost of  funds ov er the past six  months.  Responses w ere 
receiv ed from fifty-four dom estic and tw enty foreig n bank ing institutions. 
The results indicate som e further tig htening  of standards and term s for com mercial and 
industrial (C&I ) loans ov er the past three m onths.  A sig nificant f raction of  U.S. branches 
and ag encies of  foreig n bank s continued to tig hten both standards and term s. Dom estic 
and f oreig n institutions reported that the dem and f or C&I  and com mercial real estate 
loans w eakened f urther betw een the Aug ust and October surv eys. Dom estic bank s 
attribute m uch of  the recent decline in C&I  loans to reduced dem and f rom creditw orthy 
borrow ers. By contrast,  foreig n institutions allow ed that their ow n tighter lending 
standards play ed an im portant role. 
On the household side,  dom estic bank s reported larg ely unchang ed standards on hom e 
mortgages and consum er loans ov er the past three m onths.  A sig nificant f raction of  these 
bank s reported an increase in the dem and f or hom e mortgages to purchase hom es as w ell 
as continued dem and f or cash- out ref inancing . A m ajority  of bank s surv eyed ex pect the 
growth of housing  prices in their m arket area to m oderate ov er the nex t twelve months 
relativ e to the prev ious tw elve month period.  Dem and f or consum er loans w as about 
unchang ed. 
Lending to Businesses 
The percentag e of dom estic bank s that reported hav ing tightened standards on C&I  loans 
to larg e and m iddle- market firms over the past three m onths edg ed dow n to 19 percent 
from 23 percent in the Aug ust surv ey. By contrast,  the percentag e tightening  standards 
on business loans to sm all firms rose f rom 9 percent in Aug ust to about 17 percent in the 
current surv ey, and one bank  reported that it tig htened standards considerably  on these 
loans. 
A sim ilar pattern in lending  policies f or sm all and larg e firms is ev ident in the num ber of 
domestic bank s that tig htened the v arious term s listed in the surv ey. The percentag e of 
bank s that raised prem iums charg ed on risk ier loans to larg e and m iddle- market firms 
declined f rom about 50 percent in the Aug ust surv ey to 40 percent in October,  while the 
fraction of  bank s that reported doing  so on loans to sm all firms increased f rom one- fifth 
to more than one- third betw een the tw o surv eys. In addition,  almost 30 percent of 
respondents indicated that they  imposed m ore string ent collateralization requirem ents on 
small firms over the past three m onths,  up from 16 percent,  on net,  in the Aug ust surv ey. 
By contrast,  the percentag e of dom estic bank s that tig htened collateralization 
III-A-2
requirem ents on C&I  loans to larg e firms declined f rom about 30 percent in Aug ust to 23 
percent in the current surv ey. 
The f raction of  U.S. branches and ag encies of  foreig n bank s that tig htened standards and 
terms on C&I  loans ov er the past three m onths retreated som ewhat from the elev ated 
range of the prev ious sev eral surv eys. The percentag e of foreig n institutions that had 
tightened standards f or custom ers seek ing C&I  loans or credit lines declined f rom 60 
percent in Aug ust to 50 percent in the current surv ey. In a sim ilar v ein, the f ractions of 
foreig n institutions that tig htened the surv eyed term s on business loans ov er the past three 
months g enerally  edged dow n. Betw een the Aug ust and October surv eys, the f raction of 
foreig n institutions that raised prem iums on loans to risk ier custom ers declined f rom 80 
percent to about 55 percent,  and the percentag e that reported increasing  the cost of  credit 
lines decreased f rom 65 percent to about 40 percent.  By contrast,  the f raction of  foreig n 
institutions that increased spreads of  loan rates ov er their cost of  funds rem ained at about 
70 percent in the current surv ey. 
More than 80 percent of  the dom estic and f oreig n bank ing institutions that tig htened 
standards or term s on C&I  loans ov er the past three m onths v oiced concerns about the 
econom ic outlook . Dom estic bank s continued to cite reduced tolerance f or risk  and 
increases in corporate bond def aults as im portant reasons f or tig htening  their lending 
policies.  About 70 percent of  dom estic respondents indicated that reduced tolerance f or 
risk was at least a som ewhat im portant reason f or tig htening  their credit standards and 
terms, dow n only  slightly from the Aug ust surv ey, and m ore than one- half of 
respondents—about the sam e fraction as in the Aug ust surv ey—identif ied an increase in 
corporate bond def aults as a som ewhat im portant reason. 
At the sam e tim e, industry -specif ic concerns at dom estic bank s appear to hav e eased 
somewhat, as the percentag e of respondents citing  a worsening  of industry -specif ic 
problem s as a reason f or chang ing their lending  policies declined f rom 56 percent in 
August to about 39 percent in October.  By contrast,  87 percent of  foreig n bank ing 
institutions cited a w orsening  of industry -specif ic conditions as a reason f or tig htening 
their lending  policies ov er the past three m onths.  This dif ference lik ely reflects f oreig n 
institutions’ considerably  greater concentration of  C&I  loans to troubled sectors such as 
telecom munications and hig h-tech,  as ev idenced by  responses to the Aug ust 2001 surv ey. 
On net,  53 percent of  dom estic bank s reported w eaker dem and f or C&I  loans f rom large 
and m iddle- market firms in October,  up slig htly from about 45 percent in Aug ust. The 
net fraction of  bank s that reported w eaker dem and f rom small firms also m oved up in the 
current surv ey, to about 48 percent.  The net percentag e of foreig n branches and ag encies 
reporting  weaker dem and f or C&I  loans ov er the past three m onths increased to 40 
percent in October f rom 35 percent in the prev ious surv ey. 
All but one dom estic bank  that ex perienced w eaker dem and reported that a decline in 
custom ers’ need f or bank  loans to f inance capital ex penditures w as at least a som ewhat 
important reason f or the w eakness in dem and, and alm ost one- half of respondents chose 
this reason as “ very important. ” As in the past sev eral surv eys, substantial f ractions of 
bank s also reported w eaker dem and f or loans to f inance m ergers and acquisitions, 
inventories,  and accounts receiv able.  Of the f our dom estic bank s that reported an 
III-A-3
increase in dem and f or C&I  loans ov er the past three m onths,  three indicated that the 
increase w as due to a reduction in their custom ers’ internal f unds.  The m ost frequently 
cited reasons f or weaker dem and at branches and ag encies of  foreig n bank s continued to 
be a decline in m erger and acquisition f inancing  and reduced custom er inv estm ent in plant 
and equipm ent. 
In an attem pt to obtain g reater insig ht into the reasons behind the strik ing decline in C&I 
loans during  the f irst nine m onths of  this y ear—as reported on the Federal Reserv e’s H. 8 
release,  “Assets and L iabilities of  Com mercial Bank s in the United States”—bank s were 
asked to rank  several possible dem and and supply  factors.  According  to dom estic 
respondents,  the m ost im portant reason f or the runof f in C&I  loans is the reduced f unding 
needs of  creditw orthy  borrow ers; indeed,  almost three- fourths of  dom estic bank s 
identif ied this f actor as being  “most im portant. ” At the sam e tim e, dom estic bank s 
indicated that the deterioration in business credit quality  has reduced the num ber of  firms 
viewed as creditw orthy , an ef fect com pounded by  the reported tig htening  of lending 
standards ov er the past nine m onths.  At branches and ag encies of  foreig n bank s, by 
contrast,  reduced dem and f rom creditw orthy  borrow ers w as not deem ed nearly  as 
important.  Alm ost all f oreig n institutions reported that the recent drop in C&I  lending 
resulted f rom a reduction in the num ber of  creditw orthy  borrow ers, but the respondents 
were alm ost ev enly split betw een those that attributed the reduction to a g eneral 
deterioration in borrow ers’ credit quality  and those that attributed it to the im position of 
more string ent lending  standards.  In a follow -up question,  55 percent of  dom estic bank s, 
on net,  and 65 percent of  foreig n institutions indicated that the rejection rate on C&I  loan 
applications w as hig her ov er the f irst nine m onths of  2002 than ov er the corresponding 
period in 2001. 
Com mercial real estate lending.  The f ractions of  dom estic and f oreig n bank ing 
institutions that reported tig hter standards on com mercial real estate loans ov er the past 
three m onths stay ed at about 25 percent and 30 percent,  respectiv ely, in the October 
survey. Dem and f or com mercial real estate loans continued to w eaken on net.  The net 
fraction of  dom estic bank s reporting  weaker dem and f or com mercial real estate loans w as 
about unchang ed betw een Aug ust and October at about one- third.  At foreig n institutions, 
the net f raction of  respondents ex periencing  weaker dem and f or com mercial real estate 
loans ov er the past three m onths rose f rom 18 percent in Aug ust to 36 percent in the 
current surv ey. 
Lending to Households 
Ten percent of  dom estic bank s reported that they  had tig htened lending  standards on 
residential m ortgage loans ov er the past three m onths,  the hig hest share in the past 
decade.  On net, m ore than 40 percent of  respondents reported increased dem and f or 
residential m ortgages, up from 27 percent in the prev ious surv ey, a result consistent w ith 
the elev ated lev el of new  hom e sales betw een the tw o surv eys. 
A set of  supplem entary  questions addressed chang es in hom e appraisal policies,  the ex tent 
of cash- out m ortgage refinancing , and trends in hom e prices.  Alm ost all dom estic bank s 
indicated that their policies concerning  the appraisal of  hom e values f or mortgage 
loans—f or loans they  intend to hold on their book s—hav e rem ained essentially 
unchang ed ov er the past six  months; f our of  the f ive rem aining  respondents indicated that 
they had becom e som ewhat m ore conserv ative when appraising  hom e values. 
III-A-4
This y ear has seen record lev els of  hom e mortgage refinancing . Reportedly , many 
households also increased their loan balances at the tim e of refinancing , an arrang ement 
sometimes ref erred to as cash- out ref inancing . Alm ost half  of dom estic respondents in 
the October surv ey indicated that betw een 20 percent and 40 percent of  the custom ers 
that ref inanced their m ortgages ov er the last six  months took  advantag e of cash- out 
refinancing ; about one- fifth of bank s reported that m ore than 40 percent of  these 
custom ers eng aged in cash- out ref inancing . These percentag es are appreciably  higher 
than those reported in the January  2002 surv ey, which contained a sim ilar question. 
For custom ers w ho increased the outstanding  balance of  their m ortgage when ref inancing , 
about 70 percent of  bank s reported that the ty pical increase w as betw een 5 percent and 
15 percent of  the orig inal outstanding  balance.  More than 25 percent indicated that the 
typical increase,  again as a percentag e of the orig inal outstanding  balance,  was greater 
than 15 percent.  These num bers sug gest som e increase in the am ount of  cash- out 
refinancing  when com pared w ith the January  2002 surv ey, in w hich only  20 percent of 
bank s indicated that the ty pical increase in the outstanding  balance w as greater than 15 
percent.  In the current surv ey, dom estic bank s also reported that their custom ers’ m ost 
common use of  funds f rom cash- out ref inancing  was to repay  other debt and to pay  for 
home improvements, essentially  the sam e as in the January  2002 surv ey. 
Dom estic bank s were also queried about the behav ior of  average hom e prices in their 
markets ov er the past tw elve months.  About 75 percent of  these institutions reported that 
the av erage hom e price in their m arket has increased ov er the past tw elve months; in f act, 
about 15 percent of  respondents indicated that the increase w as substantial.  How ever, 
many bank s expect these increases to m oderate or partially  reverse ov er the nex t twelve 
months.  About 20 percent of  bank s anticipate a decrease in av erage hom e prices in their 
respectiv e markets, while only  33 percent f orecast a f urther increase,  and no bank  expects 
that increase to be substantial. 
In the October surv ey, about 15 percent of  dom estic bank s indicated that they  had 
tightened standards on credit card loans and other consum er loans ov er the past three 
months,  about the sam e as in the prev ious surv ey. Over the sam e period,  almost 
one-quarter of  respondents reported reducing  the num ber of  exceptions g ranted to 
custom ers not m eeting  credit- scoring  thresholds on all consum er loans.  For the second 
consecutiv e surv ey, a sm all net f raction of  dom estic bank s reported that dem and f or 
consum er loans w as som ewhat w eaker ov er the past three m onths. 
Changes in Cost of Funds 
In light of recent declines in bank  stock  prices and increases in y ields on subordinated 
debt at som e bank s, the last set of  special questions f ocused on chang es in bank s’ cost of 
funds ov er the past six  months.  About 30 percent of  dom estic bank s reported that their 
weighted- average marginal cost of  funds—relativ e to the m arginal return on their 
assets—decreased slig htly over the past six  months,  while 12 percent of  respondents 
acknowledged a slig ht increase in their m arginal cost of  funds.  Only  two bank s reported 
that their m arginal cost of  funds has increased sig nificantly  over the past six  months. 
Dom estic institutions that ex perienced an increase in their m arginal cost of  funds reported 
that, in response,  they  raised their loan pricing  term s such as f ees and spreads.  Dom estic 
institutions that reported a decrease in their m arginal cost of  funds,  by contrast,  were able 
to reduce f ees and spreads. 
III-A-5
III-A-6
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S.  International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The deficit in U.S. international trad e in goods and services was $38.5 billion in
August, $3.4 billion larger than in July  (revised).  For July and August on
average the deficit was $441 billion at an  annual rate, virtua lly unchanged from
the second quarter.   
Exports of goods and services reve rsed their July increase by falling
$12.6 billion in August, a 1.3 percent decline.  Exports of services edged up inAugust, but goods exports fell 1.9 percent,  with declines spread across major
categories.  Despite the August decline, the level of goods exports in July and
August on average rose about 7½ percen t at an annual rate from the second-
quarter level.  By region, the increase in goods exports so far in the third quarter
has been primarily to Western Europe a nd Japan.  Exports to  Canada continued
at about the same strong  level as in the second quarter.  Exports to Latin
America and developing As ia were down in July and August relative to the
second quarter.  
Imports of goods and services revers ed their July decrease by jumping
$28.1 billion in August, a 2.0 percent increase.  Services imports rose1.1 percent and goods imports were up 2.2 percent.  The increase in goods
imports was concentrated in industria l supplies and consum er goods, and may
reflect an acceleration of shipments through West Coast ports in anticipation of awork stoppage that began to appear more  likely in August.  The level of goods
imports in July and August on average was about 3¾ percent at an annual rate
above the elevated second-quarter level.  By region, the increase in July-August
relative to the second quarter was shar ed across Europe, South America, and
Asia, with little change in imports from Canada and Mexico.      
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
Prices of Internatio nally Traded Goods
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose 6.0 percent in Septem ber after climbing
2.8 percent in August (revised).  The pri ce of imported oil has risen every month
this year except June.  The spot price of West Texas intermediate (WTI) crude
oil has also risen on average since the beginning of the year and is currently
around $27 per barrel, up from its aver age value near $19 per barrel last
December.  In October, the spot pr ice fell from above $29 per barrel to its
current level, reflecting higher production from OPEC and the market’s reaction
to reports that the Bush administra tion may be willing to accept a diplomatic
solution in Iraq.  However, low crude o il inventories in the United States and
remaining uncertainty with regard to Ir aq continue to keep upward pressure on
oil prices. 
Non-oil imports.   The price of both imported non-oil goods and core goods rose
0.2 percent in September following no change in August.  For core goods, thelargest increase in September was in the price index for foods, which rose
2.7 percent following small increases in Ju ly and August.  Prices in other major
categories were little changed.  For the third quarter on average, core importprices were up 1.7 percent at an annual ra te, the same as in the second quarter.
Exports.   The price of total U.S. goods ex ports rose 0.2 percent in September,
and the price of core goods exports rose 0.3 percent.  For core goods, the largest
price movement in September was a 3.6 percent increase in the price of
agricultural products, largely a ttributable to increases in  the prices of corn and
wheat.  Prices in other major categories were generally little changed.  For thethird quarter on average, core export pri ces were up about 4 percent at an annual
rate, slightly higher than  the second quarter rate.
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
Foreign official assets held in the Un ited States were esse ntially unchanged in
August (line 1 of the Summary of U.S.  International Transactions table) as
increases in holdings of agency bonds a nd, to a lesser extent, Treasury issues,
were offset by declines in repo positions.  Increases in official reserves for the
month were largest for China ($3.8 billi on) and Russia ($2.7 billion).  The most
significant declines were for France ($3.8 billion) and Germany ($3.1 billion). 
Partial data from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York indicate that foreignofficial reserves in custody there increased by $8 billion in September.
Net private foreign purchases of U.S. s ecurities (line 4) slowed in August to
$26 billion; however, the pace is roughly equivalent to the monthly average of
$30 billion recorded since July of last year.  The decline in August is due to thesharp drop in foreign net purchases of Treasuries, from July's $26 billion to less
than $1 billion in August as Treasury yields reached new lows.  Private
IV-6
purchases of both agency (line 4b) and corporate debt issues (line 4c) rebounded
somewhat in August to $8 billion and $13 billion, respectively, and were
concentrated in the European and Cari bbean markets.  The rise in foreign
purchases of U.S. corporate debt in Au gust may be attributed in part to a
substantial increase in new bond issues by U.S. corporations in the month after
an unusually low level of corporate issues  in July.  Net foreign acquisitions of
U.S. equities (line 4d) fell by one -half in August to $5 billion.  
U.S. residents were modest net purchasers of foreign securities (line 5) in
August as small net purchases of foreig n bonds (line 5a) were nearly offset by
U.S. net sales of foreign equities (line 5b).  Again in August, no acquisitions offoreign stock through stock swaps (line 5c) were recorded as merger activity
continued to slow.  While there are no ne w data on direct investment flows, the
decline in mergers and acquisitions in recent months indicates that inflows werelikely low again in the third quarter. 
Net banking inflows of $21 billion (line 3)  were recorded for August, down from
$32 billion as revised for July.  The net inflows primarily reflected inter-office
funding activity with Caribbean br anches and repo transactions with
non-banking entities located in the Caribbean.
IV-7
Summary of U.S. International Transactions
(Billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted except as noted)
2000 20012001 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 July Aug
Official financial flows 39.3 2.0 13.2 5.3 8.8 45.5 4.4 .1
1. Change in foreign official assets
in the U.S. (increase, +) 39.6 6.9 16.8 5.5 8.4 47.4 4.6 .3
a.  G-10 countries 12.3 -7.9 -5.6 9.1 5.0 17.6 6.1 -8.5
b.  OPEC countries 10.7 -1.9 -4.8 4.2 -6.5 1.1 -0.1 .6
c.  All other countries 16.6 16.8 27.2 -7.8 9.9 28.6 -1.4 8.2
2. Change in U.S. official reserve
assets (decrease, +) -.3 -4.9 -3.6 -.2 .4 -1.8 -.2 -.3
Private financial flows 370.3 379.8 29.6 145.4 78.8 34.9 ... ...
Banks
3. Change in net foreign positions
of banking offices in the U.S.1-6.7 7.3 -1.7 38.7 -3.9 -21.4 31.8 20.8
Securities2
4. Foreign net purchases of U.S.
securities (+) 381.0 404.4 51.2 128.2 67.6 99.9 41.5 26.3
a. Treasury securities -76.4 5.6 -14.5 28.3 -1.6 -5.0 26.1 .9b. Agency bonds 96.5  86.4 19.4 28.1  2.4 32.4 3.4 8.2c. Corporate and municipal bonds 165.7 201.7 33.1 38.3 43.3 60.6 2.4 12.5d. Corporate stocks
3195.1 121.9 12.9 33.5 23.4 12.0 9.6 4.7
5. U.S. net acquisitions (-) of
foreign securities -126.6 -95.1 10.0 -26.2 1.9 -10.8 18.6 -.9
a. Bonds -23.3 12.3 21.0 -7.4  .6 9.5 6.5 -2.8b. Stock purchases -22.9 -62.7 -9.3 -12.4 3.1 -20.3 12.1 1.9c. Stock swaps
3-80.4 -44.7 1.8 -6.4 -1.8 .0 .0 .0
Other flows (quarterly data, s.a.)
6. U.S. direct investment (-) abroad -178.3 -127.8 -41.7 -27.5 -29.3 -29.4 ... ...7. Foreign direct investment in U.S. 307.7 130.8 14.2 21.9 16.2 1.0 ... ...8. Foreign holdings of U.S. currency 1.1 23.8 8.2 10.5 4.5 7.2 ... ...9. Other (inflow, + )
4-7.9  36.4 - 10.5 -.1  21.7 -11.6 ... ...
U.S. current account (s.a.) -410.3 -393.4 -91.3 -95.1 -112.5 -130.0 ... ...
Capital account balance (s.a.)5.8 .8 .2 .2 .2 .2 ... ...
Statistical discrepancy (s.a.) .0 10.7  48.3 -55.8 24.7 49.4 ... ...
NOTE:  The sum of official and private financial flows, the curre nt account balance, the capital account balance, and the statistic al
discrepancy is zero.  Details may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1.  Changes in dollar-denominated positions of all depository institutions and bank holding companies plus certain transactions
between broker-dealers and unaffiliated foreigners (particularly borrowing and lending under repurchase agreements). Includeschanges in custody liabilities other than U.S. Treasury bills.
2.  Includes adjustments BEA makes to account for incomplete coverage, but excludes adjustments for commissions and therefore
does not match exactly the data on U.S. international transactions published by the Department of Commerce.
3.  Includes (4d) or represents (5c) stocks acquired through mergers.4.  Transactions by nonbanking concerns and other banking and official transactions not shown elsewhere plus amounts resulting
from adjustments made by the Department of Commerce and revisions in lines 1 through 5 since publication of the quarterly data in
the Survey of Current Business.
5. Consists of transactions in nonproduced nonfinancial assets and capital transfers.
n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.  
IV-8
Foreign Exchange Markets
The trade-weighted value of the dollar has weakened ½ percent, on balance,
vis-à-vis the major foreign currencies si nce the September FOMC meeting.  The
dollar slipped 1¼ percent against the Cana dian dollar, as forecasts project that
the rate of growth of the Canadian ec onomy will likely surpass that of the U.S.
economy over the second half of this year .  The dollar depreciated 3/4 percent
against the yen, partially in response to a much weaker-than-expected U.S.
consumer confidence data release on Oc tober 29.  On the whole, the dollar
stayed within a narrow range against the euro and yen over the intermeetingperiod.  Amidst this relative tranqu ility, implied volatilities derived from options
on the exchange rate of the dollar versus  the euro and yen declined 20 percent
over the period.  This decline suggests that  market participants expect the dollar
to continue trading within  a narrower-than-usual range.
European stock indexes plunged to new multi-year lows early in the
intermeeting period, but in mid-October they  staged a sharp recovery along with
share prices in the United States.  The sectors that had been hardest hit this
year – technology, insurance and teleco mmunications – led the rally, with the
technology sector surging more than 30 percent over the period.  In contrast,
share prices in Japan plumbed new 19- year lows, with banking shares down
more than 10 percent.  Ma rket participants seemed to be uneasy about measures
for cleaning up the banking system that  the Financial Services Agency might
announce.  A contentious debate among Japanese government officials about
IV-9
these measures, well in advance of the announcement, reportedly exacerbated
the negative sentiment in the market.  Market participants deemed the FSA’sannouncement of the plan on October 30 to be vague, with the outlined reforms
relatively mild.  The FSA stated that more  details on the plan would be provided
sometime in November. 
In conjunction with the rally in the equ ity market, euro-area ten-year benchmark
bond yields rose 22 basis points over the intermeeting period, reversing most of
the decline during the previous period and suggesting an increase in riskappetite.  Yields on two-year European  government bonds were little changed,
as economic data were mix ed and pointed to further lackluster growth,
particularly in Germany.  Despite concerns that the EU  has been lax in enforcing
deficit limits spelled out in the Stability and Growth Pact, credit default spreadsfor the countries with the la rgest fiscal deficits wide ned only 2 to 5 basis points
over the period.  As was the case with equities, Japanese sovereign bond yields
also went in the opposite direction to t hose in other major industrial countries,
with the yield on the benchmark ten-year instrument falling 24 basis points. Japanese bond yields retraced an upward sp ike at the end of the previous period
after the Bank of Japan announced it woul d begin purchasing corporate shares. 
Soon after that announcement, the mont hly auction of ten-year Japanese
government bonds was undersubscribed fo r the first time ever, exacerbating the
upward pressure on yields.  
IV-10
The European Central Bank and the Bank of England did not adjust their
monetary policy stances during the peri od, and three-month in terest rates were
little changed.  The Bank of Japan announced  that it would boost its target range
for balances of banking deposits held at the central bank by ¥5 trillion to¥15-20 trillion.  The Bank also announced it would step up purchases ofJapanese government bonds to ¥1.2 tr illion per month, a 20 percent increase
from the current level.
In Latin America, the focus continued to be on Brazil and on the impact of the
victory for the Worker’s Party candida te, Lula, in the presidential election. 
Financial market pressures eased so mewhat ahead of the second round of
balloting after Lula's econo mic advisors announced that the government will
make fiscal and monetary reforms a high priority.  After Lula ’s victory, some of
the financial gains ahead of the runoff election were revers ed.  Despite this
setback, Brazil’s EMBI+ spread over Tr easuries narrowed 400 basis points over
the intermeeting period and the Bovespa gained 6 percent.  The real remained
under pressure over the period, slipping 5 percent, which prompted the central
IV-11
bank of Brazil to raise its key interest rate 300 basis points to 21 percent.  The
Mexican peso appreciated one percent ag ainst the dollar, while Mexico’s EMBI+
spread narrowed 70 basis points.  Share prices in Argentina gained 13 percent
and Argentina’s yield spr ead narrowed 625 basis points.
In emerging Asia, equity prices in th e Philippines and Indonesia declined 8 and 
12 percent, respectively, over the period, a mid terrorist incidents in both nations. 
The dollar appreciated more than 1½ per cent against the Philippine peso and the
Indonesian rupiah.  The rebound in tec hnology share prices helped Taiwan’s
stock market gain four percent.  Korean  share prices also participated in the
mid-October technology-driven recovery but  slipped three percent for the period
as a whole.             
 .  The Desk did not  intervene during the period for the
accounts of the System or Treasury.
IV-12
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
In the euro area and Japan, recent data have suggested that growth may be
slipping, with industrial production slow ing and surveys of business sentiment
showing few signs of optimism.  In cont rast, Canada has s hown signs of robust
growth, with gains in manufacturing a nd the housing sector, while the United
Kingdom has continued to grow at a moderate pace with support coming from
services. 
Twelve-month consumer-price inflation rates generally changed only slightly.  In
the euro area and the United Kingdom, they remained at around 2 percent. 
Japanese prices continued to fall at n early a 1 percent pace.  In Canada, the
headline rate fell slightly to 2.3 percent. 
In Japan , recent indicators are generally consistent with a slowing in the pace of
growth.  Industrial producti on fell 0.3 percent in Sept ember, putting the third-
quarter average about two percent a bove the second-quarter average; this
quarterly increase, while still robust, is  a slowdown from the pace of expansion
in the second quarter.  The broader a ll-industries index edged up 0.5 percent in
August; for July and August on averag e, the index was 0.7 percent above the
second-quarter average.  Real exports fell in the third quarter compared with the
second quarter, while imports  jumped, implying a negative contribution of net
exports to GDP growth.  Machinery orde rs fell sharply in August, although the
series is very volatile, and the drop followed several monthly increases.  Inaddition, non-residential building starts  were weak in July and August. 
Residential building starts continued to fall, dropping  about 3½ percent in July
and August on average from their second- quarter average.  On the other hand,
third-quarter workers’ hous ehold expenditures were a bout one percent above the
second-quarter average.  
Labor market conditions remain unfa vorable; employment  fell 0.7 percent in
September from year-earlier levels.  Th e unemployment rate was stuck at 5.4
percent in September, only a touch belo w the record-high rate registered last
December.  The job-offers-to-applicants ratio, a key leading indicator ofemployment conditions, was up slightly to 0.55 in September from the previous
month.  In the Tokyo area, core consum er goods prices (which exclude fresh
food but include energy) were unchanged  in October from the previous month,
and were down 0.8 percent from a year ear lier.  Wholesale prices for domestic
goods were roughly flat between Februa ry and September, but remained below
year-earlier levels. 
IV-13
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Jul. Aug. Sept. Oct.
Industrial production1.6 3.8 2.2 .1 1.4 -.3 n.a.
All-industries index .6 .3 n.a. .2 .5 n.a. n.a.Housing starts .8 -.8 n.a. 3.1 -1.0 n.a. n.a.Machinery orders
2-7.4 7.1 n.a. 1.9 -13.6 n.a. n.a.
Machinery shipments 3.6 6.6 1.6 -1.5 5.7 -3.9 n.a.New car registrations 1.9 5.3 3.1 1.2 18.2 -8.6 n.a.Unemployment rate
35.3 5.3 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 n.a.
Job offers ratio4.51 .53 .54 .54 .54 .55 n.a.
Business sentiment5-41 -32 -30 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)6-.9 -1.1 -.9 -1.0 -.9 -.9 -.8
Wholesale prices6-1.4 -1.1 -1.0 -1.2 -1.0 -.9 n.a.
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Percent.4. Level of indicator.5. Tankan survey, diffusion index.6. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
The Bank of Japan's Tankan index of bus iness conditions improved slightly in
September, with the level of the aggregate diffusion index for business sentimentamong firms of all sizes and across all industries edging up to -30 from -32 in
June.  Employers’ perceptions indicate th at employment at their firms remains
excessive.  Forecasts for profits and sa les were generally revised down, and the
outlook for investment spending remains weak.
On September 30, as part of a cabinet  reshuffle, Prime Minister Koizumi
replaced Hakuo Yanagisawa w ith Heizo Takenaka as head of the Financial
Services Agency.  Takenaka also reta ins his position as Minister of Economic
and Fiscal Policy.  On October 30, th e government announced a policy package
containing a plan to resolve problems in the Japanese banking sector and
accompanying measures to cushion th e impact of banking reform on economic
activity.  The announcement was vague on details, but the banking reform plan
IV-14
appears to be relatively weak.  The plan  calls on major banks to halve bad loans
within 2½ years, without defining "bad loans" and without specifying how theloans would be disposed of.  Anti-defla tion measures included tax cuts of around
1 trillion yen (0.2 percent of GDP), measur es to enhance job security, additional
support for small and medium-sized companies, and the creation of an
organization that will assist in rehabilitating viable firms.   
Also on October 30, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) voted to ease monetary policy,
raising its target range for the outstandi ng balance of bank accounts held at the
BOJ to ¥15 trillion to ¥20 trillion from ¥10 tr illion to ¥15 trillion.  As part of the
effort to ease policy, the BOJ will in crease the monthly amount of outright
purchases of long-term JGBs from the current ¥1 trillion to ¥1.2 trillion.  TheBOJ cited uncertainties st emming from "global economic  developments" and the
"likely acceleration in the pace of dealing with the non-performing loanproblem," as well as volatility in stock prices, in explaining its decision.  
Recent data suggest that growth in the euro area remained sluggish in the third
quarter, raising concerns that growth may be slipping rather than picking up.  For
July and August on average, industria l production was only 0.1 percent above the
second-quarter average.  Most measures  of euro-area business sentiment have
declined since May.  Purchasing mana gers’ indexes for both manufacturing and
services have declined in each of the past  three months, with a particularly sharp
decline in September that took both measur es to about 49, just below the level of
50 that is the threshold for indicating positive growth.
The twelve-month rate of euro-area consum er price inflation remained just above
the ECB’s target ceiling of two percent in September.  Excluding food, energy,
and alcohol and tobacco, the twelve-month inflation rate remained at 2.4 percent
in September, just below the six-year peak of 2.5 percent reached in May.  In
contrast, producer prices have re mained below year-earlier levels.
Slow economic growth ha s put pressure on euro-area fiscal balances.   As a result,
the European Commission postponed the da te for achieving balanced budgets to
2006 from 2004.  However, the Commission maintains its position thatgovernments should achieve  improvements in their structural (i.e. full
employment) budget positions in 2003.  Ne vertheless, Francis Mer, the French
minister of Finance, has indicated that France will not eliminate its budget deficit
until 2007 and will not cut its structural deficit in 2003 .  
On October 16, Hans Eichel, the German  finance minister, announced that the
German budget deficit this year will exceed the 3 percent of GDP limit required
by the Stability and Growth Pact.  The “excessive” budget deficit could trigger a
fine of up to 0.5 percent of GDP, but the European Commission is unlikely to 
IV-15
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Jun. Jul. Aug. Sept.
Industrial production1.8 .3 n.a. .9 -.8 .6 n.a.
Retail sales volume .2 -.3 n.a. -.3 .6 n.a.  n.a.Unemployment rate
28.1 8.2 n.a. 8.3 8.3 8.3 n.a.
Consumer confidence3-10.0 -8.3 -10.0 -8.0 -10.0 -11.0 -9.0
Industrial confidence4-13.7 -10.7 -11.7 -11.0 -11.0 -12.0 -12.0
Mfg. orders, Germany 1.2 2.1 n.a. -3.3 -.4 1.2 n.a.CPI
52.6 2.1 2.0 1.8 1.9 2.1 2.1
Producer prices5-.9 -.8 n.a. -1.0 -.4 -.2 n.a.
M357.2 7.1 7.4 7.1 7.1 7.0 7.4
1. Excludes construction.
2. Percent. Euro-area standardized to ILO defi nition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
3. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.     n.a.  Not available.
impose sanctions as the government has al ready begun to take actions to offset
the budget slippage in the medium-term.  A fine is particularly unlikely given the
European Commission’s decision not to fine Portugal for exceeding the 3 percentlimit in 2001.
The European Commission has reco mmended ten accession countries for
admission into the European Union. Th e ten countries are Cyprus, the Czech
Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, the Slovak
Republic, and Slovenia.  Bulgaria and Romania will continue negotiations foraccession, while Turkey is not yet view ed as meeting the political conditions
required to begin negotiations.  The objec tive is for the new members to begin
joining the European Union in time for the election of the European Parliamentscheduled for June 2004.  On October 19, Ireland removed a major obstacle for
EU expansion with 63 percent of voter s in a national refe rendum casting ballots
in favor of the Nice Treaty.  The Nice Treaty changes the institutional structure of
IV-16
the EU in order to make enlargement possi ble.  Irish voters had rejected the Nice
Treaty during a previous referendum in 2001.
In the United Kingdom , preliminary third-quarter real GDP rose 2.8 percent
(s.a.a.r.) after moderate second-quarter growth.  Thir d-quarter growth in the
service sector is estimated to have strengthened more than three percent fromabout 2½ percent in the second quarter .  Industrial produc tion is estimated to
have grown during the quarter as well, although September da ta have yet to be
released.
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Jul. Aug. Sept. Oct.
Real GDP* .5 2.5 2.8 ... ... ... ...
Industrial production -1.2 .3 n.a. 3.2 -.3 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume 1.0 1.7 .6 .4 .7 .4 n.a.Unemployment rate
1
      Claims-based 3.1 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 n.a.      Labor force survey
25.1 5.2 n.a. 5.2 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence3-3.3 8.0 10.7 9.0 16.0 7.0 8.0
Retail prices42.4 1.9 2.0 2.0 1.9 2.1 n.a.
Producer input prices5-5.6 -5.9 -2.2 -3.8 -1.8 -.9 n.a.
Average earnings52.9 3.9 n.a. 4.1 3.6 n.a. n.a.
      * Preliminary, s.a.a.r.
      1. Percent.
2. Three-month average centered on month shown.3. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expecting output to decrease.
4. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.5. Percent change from year earlier.
     ...  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
The limited indicators that are available for the fourth quarter suggest continued
moderate growth, albeit at a slower pace, with relatively weak manufacturing and
a relatively robust services sector.   Business confidence tic ked up in October,
while the Confederation of British Indus try survey of manufacturing order books
slid further and is now at the same level as a year ago.  In recent months, themanufacturing PMI has been falling, with September’s index indicating tepidgrowth.  September’s services PMI incr eased, however, continuing to indicate
IV-17
expansion. Consumer confidence has improved somewhat in August and
September after remaining relatively flat during the first half of the year. 
Despite some anecdotal evidence that th e housing market is cooling, the two
leading surveys of housing prices regi stered twelve-month increases of around 
23 percent in September.  Borrowing to finance the purchase of homes climbed1.2 percent in the same month, and incr eased a robust 12.4 percent in the twelve
months ending in September.  Mortga ge approvals have edged up, but are still
lower than April's high.  Other c onsumer credit ticked down, but remained
strong.
Labor market conditions ha ve remained tight.  The official claims-based
unemployment rate held steady at 3.1 percen t in September, near a record low. 
Even so, the twelve-month rate of reta il price inflation (excluding mortgage
interest payments) conti nued to be below the Bank of England’s 2½ percent
target in September at 2.1 percent.  Th e twelve-month growth rate of average
earnings fell to 3.6 percent in August.
In Canada , indicators suggest further strong  real GDP growth in the third
quarter.  August manufacturing shipment s grew 7.1 percent after a 12.7 percent
increase in July.  Industries relate d to Canada’s booming housing market
exhibited particular strength in the third quarter.  Average investment in
residential structures for the first ha lf of 2002 rose 7.7 percent from the fourth
quarter of 2001, while housing st arts have remained at or near twelve-year highs
since January.  Low mortgage rates and hi gh employment growth have continued
to support activity, with August permits jumping 3.7 percent from July’s level. 
Commercial and indus trial construction also re bounded in the third quarter,
following large declines during the first half of the year. 
Consumer confidence held steady in the third quarter while business confidence
fell sharply in the same period.  Howe ver, September's PMI moved to 58.5, up
from around 50 in both July and August.  
The unemployment rate rose to 7.7 pe rcent in September from 7.5 percent in
August, as the labor force increased at a greater rate than employment.  Stronglabor force growth has kept the unemployment rate from falling even asemployment has shown impressive gains,  increasing 2.8 percent over the first
nine months of the year.  In September,  the twelve-month rate of CPI inflation
fell to 2.3 percent from 2.6 percent in Augu st.  The twelve-month increase in the
all-items index was muted by a fall in energy prices, while cigarette prices andautomobile insurance premiums exerte d upward pressure.  Core inflation,
excluding food and energy prices, remained at three percent.  
IV-18
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Jun. Jul. Aug. Sept.
GDP by industry 1.2 1.0 n.a. .2 .4 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production 2.4 1.4 n.a. -.0 1.4 n.a. n.a.New mfg. orders 4.7 3.9 n.a. .1 -1.3 3.0 n.a.Retail sales 2.6 .9 n.a. 1.9 -.2 .2 n.a.Employment .7 .9 .9 .4 .1 .4 .3Unemployment rate
17.8 7.6 7.6 7.5 7.6 7.5 7.7
Consumer prices21.5 1.3 2.3 1.3 2.1 2.6 2.3
Consumer attitudes3124.8 125.1 124.5 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence3141.5 145.2 129.7 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-19
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Jul. Aug. Sept.
Japan
Trade 72.4 86.1 73.9 68.4 93.1 60.4
Current account 117.5 118.7 n.a. 128.7 116.9 n.a.
Euro area
Trade166.2 91.0 n.a. 165.5 112.9 n.a.
Current account140.9 20.4 n.a. 31.0 113.9 n.a.
Germany
Trade 112.6 107.8 n.a. 124.0 145.5 n.a.Current account 36.9 43.7 n.a. 1.9 52.9 n.a.
France
Trade 1.0 1.7 n.a. 3.9 2.8 n.a.Current account 3.6 4.5 n.a. 3.2 6.1 n.a.
Italy
Trade 5.6 10.2 n.a. 2.4 5.6 n.a.Current account
1-9.3 -16.0 n.a. 30.4 15.9 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -45.0 -38.2 n.a. -44.9 -51.8 n.a.Current Account -21.7 -23.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 34.9 34.3 n.a. 39.1 31.2 n.a.Current Account 13.3 12.6 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-20
IV-21
IV-22
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Conditions in South America remain fragile.  The Argentine economy may be
bottoming out, but no significant signs of recovery have emerged, and the
situation in Venezuela has worsened.  The ongoing difficulties confrontingBrazil largely reflect uncertainties surroundi ng the political transition to the new
Lula administration.  Mexico has been largely unaffected by the political and
financial problems a fflicting the major South Ameri can countries, but even there
growth slowed in the third quarter.  The pace of recovery also appears to haveslowed in much of emerging Asia , although China still reports robust GDP
growth.
In Brazil , data releases since the last Greenbook have suggested weakening
domestic demand.  Industria l production edged up in August, largely reflecting
strong growth in the mining sector.  Unemployment climbed during the thirdquarter, and consumer confidence weaken ed in early October.  Twelve-month
inflation increased in September to 8 per cent, driven by the pass-through of the
sizable depreciation of the real in recent months.  Inflation is well above the
upper limit of the 2002 inflation target ra nge of 5.5 percent.  The trade and
current account balances improved markedly  in the third quarter, driven largely
by weak imports.  Reflecting a height ened degree of uncertainty over the
economy’s prospects after the new govern ment takes office, the central bank’s
survey of professional forecasters shows an increasing dispersion in forecasts ofinflation and output for 2003.
On October 6, Lula of the Workers’ Part y (PT) garnered over 40 percent of the
vote in the first round election, and on Oc tober 27 Lula won the run-off against
Jose Serra by a wide margin.  Duri ng October, the concern that a Lula
government would embark on expansiona ry policies and possibly default on the
domestic and foreign public debt made it difficult for the government to roll
over maturing domestic debt, and the real depreciated sharply as well.  In
response, the central bank sold inte rnational reserves, raised reserve
requirements, tightened other restric tions on banks, and boosted its overnight
interest rate, the Se lic, 300 basis points to 21 percent.  The real stabilized only
after senior PT party officials stated that Lula’s new economic team would soon
unveil proposals on fiscal reforms and a ne w central bank independence law.  By
end-October, the Brazilian EMBI+ spr ead over U.S. Treasuries stood at 1,800
basis points, down 600 basis points from its peak at the end of September, and
unchanged on balance since the run-off election.  
IV-23
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP13.8 -.6 2.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 6.6 1.5 1.5 n.a. .1 .3 n.a.Unemployment rate
27.1 6.2 7.9 8.1 8.1 7.9 8.4
Consumer prices36.0 7.7 7.8 7.6 7.5 7.5 7.9
Trade balance4-.7 2.6 4.2 18.9 12.9 15.0 29.0
Current account5-24.6 -23.2 -20.4 3.9 -6.6 3.8 14.6
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  “Open” unemployment rate.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , data releases since the last Greenbook have given tentative signs
that the economy has bottomed out.  Indus trial production rose  in September but
remained 20 percent below its 1998 peak.  Deposits in the banking system have
risen slightly since mid-August as a re sult of capital and banking controls and
very high interest rates.   Nevertheless, the level of deposits is quite low. 
Consumer confidence remains near a r ecord low.  The weak economy and the
suppression of utility rates c ontinued to restrain infl ation, despite the sizeable
depreciation of the peso since last Janua ry; the CPI rose only 1.3 percent (s.a.) in
September, bringing the twelve-month increase to about 39 percent.  Economic
weakness continued to boost the trade surplus.
The Argentine government and the IMF continued to negotia te a new program,
but important areas of disagreement rema in.  The government is attempting to
secure a Fund program before mid-Nove mber, which is the end of a 30-day
grace period on a missed $800 million payment to the World Bank.  Politicalmaneuvering in advance of the Marc h presidential election has distracted
attention from the country’s pressing economic problems.  A legal and political
battle between President Duhalde and former president Menem is in progressover the rules that will determine who wins the Peronist party primary inmid-December; Duhalde is seeking to quash Menem’s re-election bid.
IV-24
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP1 -1.9 -10.5 3.8 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -1.8 -5.0 -.6 -.6 -1.5 -.2 .8Unemployment rate
215.1 17.4 21.5 ... ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -.7 -1.5 23.3 36.0 32.9 36.5 38.5
Trade balance42.6 7.5 15.6 n.a. 16.8 16.1 n.a.
Current account5-8.9 -4.6 10.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data are released for May and October only.  Figures for Q2 reflect data
for May.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Mexico , economic indicators since the la st Greenbook generally suggest that
although the economy continued to gr ow, the pace of recovery slowed
significantly in the third quarter.  In Ju ly and August, the average level of overall
economic activity (a monthly proxy for real GDP) was up from the second
quarter, but only slightly.  The unemploymen t rate rose in the third quarter, and
business confidence has been falling in r ecent months, although its level remains
relatively high.  Exports continued to gr ow in the third quarter, narrowing the
trade deficit a bit.
Monetary policy was tightened in late September, after the peso started to
depreciate at a more accelerated pace and because twelve-month inflationthrough August had been about a percenta ge point higher than the government’s
year-end target of 4½ percent.  The tig htening of monetary policy helped stem
the depreciation of the peso; on net the peso has depreciated about 10 percent
against the dollar this year. 
IV-25
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP14.9 -1.5 4.7 n.a. ... ... ...
Overall economic activity 6.5 -.2 1.3 n.a. .1 -.2 n.a.Industrial production 5.9 -3.4 1.4 n.a. .0 .2 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.2 2.5 2.7 2.9 2.9 2.8 3.0
Consumer prices3 9.0 4.4 4.8 5.2 5.5 5.3 4.9
Trade balance4-8.0 -10.0 -8.2 -7.3 -7.6 -6.6 -7.7
Imports4174.5 168.4 170.0 171.0 171.9 169.6 171.4
Exports4166.5 158.4 161.8 162.9 164.3 163.0 163.7
Current account5-18.1 -17.9 -12.1  n.a. .... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Political tensions continue to plague the Venezuelan  economy.  Over the first
three weeks of October, opponents of the government, including business
interests and unions, staged a large protest and a general strike, calling forPresident Chavez to resign or hold el ections.  The unemployment rate edged up
to 16.4 percent in July, and there have  been no signs that economic conditions
have improved since then.  Twelve-m onth inflation rose to 28 percent in
September, apparently reflecting increased pass-through from Venezuela’s
sizable depreciation.  In response to downward pressure on the currency, the
central bank has raised interest rates twice since mid-September, bringing thebenchmark rate to 40 percent.
IV-26
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP1 5.7 .9 -22.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 13.3 15.8 n.a. 16.4 n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices313.4 12.3 18.9 24.8 22.0 24.2 28.2
Non-oil trade balance4-10.3 -12.2 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance417.5 9.4 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account513.4 4.1 6.7 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Data releases for Korea  since the last Greenbook suggest that growth continued
in the third quarter, albeit not at the very rapid pace seen earlier this year. Industrial production in the third quarter showed robust growth, boosted by gains
in the auto sector.  Export growth ove r the same period remained strong, but
stronger imports led to a narrowing in the current account surplus.  Both
production and exports in the third quart er were boosted by solid performance in
the high-tech sector, notwithstanding a general softening in these sectors
throughout the region.  Inflation remain ed moderate, as the CPI rose three
percent over the twelve months ending  in September, but a rapid run-up in
property prices has raised concerns.  Despite the increase in property prices,
consumer and business confidence i ndicators continued their downward
movements seen since April, apparently  reflecting fears of a weakening global
environment.  Motivated by declines in  stock market and confidence indicators,
the Bank of Korea left its policy rate  unchanged at 4¼ percent at its early
October meeting.
IV-27
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP15.1 4.4 5.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 16.9 1.7 2.0 1.7 1.9 3.3 .1Unemployment rate
24.1 3.7 3.1 3.0 3.0 3.1 2.8
Consumer prices32.8 3.2 2.7 2.5 2.1 2.4 3.0
Trade balance416.9 13.4 14.5 9.7 7.7 16.7 4.8
Current account512.2 8.6 7.3 2.4 -.2 1.8 5.5
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Since the last Greenbook, the overall pace of growth in the ASEAN  countries
appears to have modera ted somewhat.  Industria l production in Singapore,
Malaysia, and the Philippine s fell in recent months, with production of high-tech
goods leading the decline.  In contrast , production continued to  rise in Thailand,
buoyed by internal demand for consumer  goods.  The region’s trade surpluses
have generally diminished in recent months.  Much of this has been due to
declines in exports of high-tech goods to the United States.
Inflation in the region has generally b een subdued.  Indonesian inflation, by far
the highest among the ASEAN countries, has fallen nearly to single digits,
reflecting the effects of the appreciation of  the rupiah.  Prices  continued to fall in
Singapore since the last Greenbook on a twelve-month basis, but on a 
month-to-month basis pri ces were roughly flat.
IV-28
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 7.3 1.2 10.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Malaysia 6.2 -.6 7.0 n.a. ... ... ...Philippines 3.7 3.9 9.7 n.a. ... ... ...Singapore 11.4 -6.4 13.6 n.a. ... ... ...Thailand 3.4 2.0 6.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia311.6 .7 -2.0 n.a. -1.2 n.a. n.a.
Malaysia 19.1 -4.1 2.4 n.a. 4.7 -1.2 n.a. Philippines 2.4 -5.7 5.3 n.a. .6 -3.9 n.a.Singapore 15.3 -11.6 9.7 -4.9 1.0 -4.9 -7.2Thailand 3.3 1.3 3.4 n.a. 2.7 2.2 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Indonesia 28.6 25.4 28.3 n.a. 26.2 21.4 n.a.
Malaysia 16.1 14.2 12.1 n.a. 14.9 10.6 n.a.Philippines 6.7 2.6 .8 n.a. 3.7 -3.4 n.a.Singapore 3.3 5.8 5.8 12.0 13.2 11.9 10.8Thailand 5.5 2.5 3.3 n.a. -3.5 2.6 n.a.
n.a.  Not available.
IV-29
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20001200112002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Indonesia 9.3 12.5 12.6 10.4 10.0 10.6 10.5
Malaysia 1.3 1.2 1.9 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1Philippines 6.7 4.1 3.4 2.8 2.6 2.9 2.9Singapore 2.1 -.6 -.4 -.4 -.4 -.5 -.4Thailand 1.4 .8 .2 .3 .1 .3 .4
1. December/December.
The Chinese  economy has continued to grow at a rapid pace, with real GDP
increasing 7.5 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the third quarter.  The strong performance of
the economy this year appears to have  resulted mainly from surging domestic
investment (including government i nvestment), a rise in foreign direct
investment, and robust export growth.  In the third quarter, nominal fixed
investment rose 24 percen t and exports rose 29 percent relative to the same
period a year earlier.  Consumption, as  measured by reta il sales data, also
appears to be holding up well.  China continues to experience deflation, with
consumer prices down about 3/4 percent from year-ago levels.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP18.0 7.5 9.3 7.5 ... ... ...
Industrial production211.4 8.9 12.5 13.1 12.8 12.7 13.8
Consumer prices21.5 -.3 -1.1 -.8 -.9 -.7 -.7
Trade balance324.1 23.1 29.9 10.2 12.6 3.9 14.0
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
IV-30
In Hong Kong , economic conditions genera lly remained unfavorable. 
Unemployment remained high, consumer confidence diminished, and propertyand consumer prices fell further.  In recent months, Hong Kong’s trade deficithas widened, owing mainly to increas ed imports.  The Hong Kong economy
remains highly dependent on the external sector, but its role as an entrepot is
increasingly threatened by China’s continuing integration into the worldeconomy, and the consequent  development of alterna tive ports on the mainland,
for example, in Shanghai.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP17.0 -1.4 1.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate25.1 4.9 7.7 7.4 7.8 7.6 7.4
Consumer prices3-2.1 -3.5 -3.2 -3.5 -3.5 -3.3 -3.7
Trade balance4-11.0 -11.4 -7.8 -9.8 -10.3 -12.7 -6.3
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Real economic growth in Taiwan  moderated during the firs t half of the year, on
balance, and indicators for activity in  the third quarter have been mixed. 
Industrial production edged down in August  and September, owing primarily to
a drop in the output of the information a nd electronics industry.  In contrast,
through September, consumer confidence he ld steady at a relatively strong level,
even as the unemployment rate rema ined elevated.  Exports and imports
flattened out in July and August, but climbed higher in September.  Consumerprices moved lower in September.
IV-31
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 July Aug. Sept.
Real GDP13.9 -1.6 .3 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate23.0 4.6 5.2 5.1 5.0 5.0 5.1
Industrial production 7.4 -7.3 6.0  -1.3 2.7 -1.0 -.1Consumer prices
31.7 -1.7 .0 -.2 .4 -.3 -.7
Trade balance48.3 15.6 16.3 12.9 11.3 18.1 9.2
Current account58.9 18.9 24.3 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.