Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 5/28/ 2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                       June 18, 2003
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                       March 13, 2003
                
Recent Developments                         
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                         
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developments
Overview 
The economy appears to have expanded at a subpar pace in the current quarter, 
and the incoming data have provided mixed sig n
als about the trajectory of 
economic activity as we move  toward the second half of the year. Businesses 
still have be en re luctant to hir e, and we have se en no sig n yet of any substantia l 
pickup in their capital spending . However, consumer confidence rebounded 
substantially after the war with I raq, and, adjusted for inflation, retail sales in 
May more than reversed their drop in April. Homebuildin g has flattened out, 
albeit at a hig h level. In the public  sector, federal defense outlay s are up 
sharply , outweighing by a sig nificant marg in the spending restraint of state and 
local  governm ents. Meanwhi le the year-over-year chang e in core consumer 
prices edg ed up in May after having moved lower during the early spring . 
La bor Market Devel opm ents 
The labor ma rk et showe d some sig ns of sta bilizing in April and Ma y. Afte r 
having fallen 35,000 per month in the first quarter of the year, employment on 
private nonfarm pay rolls edg ed up 8,000 in May , after an upward-revised 
increase of 2,000 in April. Employment in manufacturing con tinued to fall last 
month, although employment in temporar y help services—which supplies many 
of its workers t o ma nufacturi ng—picked up not iceabl y. Employ ment in 
construction rose substan tially  for the third conse cutive month, and financial 
activities continued to add jobs. Howeve r, em ployment in se rvices 
industries—excluding temporary help  supply —was essen tially unchanged. 
Aggregate hours of production or nonsupe rvisory workers were unchanged in 
May after having falle n 0.3 percent in April. 
In the survey of households, the unemploy ment rate, which is considered to be a 
lagging indicator, edg ed up further to 6.1 percent in May . The recent rise in 
joblessness has reflected an i ncrease in both incidence and duration: The 
numbers of short-term job losers and longer-term unemploy ed have both 
increased. The l abor force participation r ate, which c ontinues to be depressed 
by the paucity of jobs, was esse ntially unchanged, at 66.4 percent. 
In keeping with its usual pr actice, the May labor market report included the 
BLS’s benchma rk of pa yroll employment e stimates to unemploy ment insur ance 
tax records for March 2002 as well as other annual updates to the pay roll 
employment e stimates.1 In addition, the establishment survey program was 
converted from the Standard Industrial Classification (SI C) system to the North 
1. These chan ges inclu de recalculation of  seasonal factors , reweighting of samp led firms, 
and rees timation of birt h-death models. 
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
American Industrial Classification System (NAICS).2 As a result of these 
chang es, pay roll employment is now es timated to have falle n more in 2002 than 
previously reported but to have  contracted less thus far this y ear. On net, in the 
twelve months following the benchm ark date of March 2002, the cumulative 
decline in private pay roll employment  is now only 40,000 steeper than estimated 
earlier. However, the revised fig ures now show a 0.1 hour decline in the 
workweek over the period rather than a 0.1 hour increase.3 
The revised data now show that the d ecline in ag gregate hours of production or 
nonsupervisory workers was more than 3/4 percentag e point per year steeper in 
2001 and 2002 than reported earlier. Th e chang e in ag gregate hours (at an 
annual rate) was also revise d down 1-1/4 percentag e points in the first quarter of 
this y ear. The BLS will use the se revised f igure s in e stimating its broade r 
measure of hours of all persons for its productivity and costs measures. 
However, because of the extent of th e recent chang es to both the household and 
payroll estimates, considerable uncertainty exists as to how the hours data will 
be revised. Currently, the B LS expects to update the hours series, and 
associated productivity series, for re lease with its preliminary estimates of 
second-quarter productivity  and costs in Aug ust. Even if the B LS adheres to 
that schedule, the productiv ity estimates will likely chang e further after the 
benchmark revision to the output estimate s in the national income and product 
accounts in December. 
Despite the bette r read ings on pa yroll employment in April and Ma y, initia l 
claims f or unemploy ment insur ance have shown little improvement ove r the 
past couple of months. The four-week moving average of initial claims stood at 
434,000 for the week ended June 7, nearly th e same as the average level in early 
April. Insured unemploy ment rose to 3.8 million for the week ended May 31 
and now stands more than 400,000 above its recent lows in J anuary . 
Other labor market indicators have y ielded mixed sig n als. After having 
deteriorated in F ebruary and March, households’ perceptions of current labor 
market conditions were little chang ed in April and May , according to the 
Conference Board survey . Expectat ions of future labor market conditions 
improved not iceabl y in May  in both t he Conference Board and Michi gan 
surveys but then deteriorated a bit in  early  June, according to the preliminary 
release of t he Michi gan survey . Among fi rm-level  indicators, the hiring plans of 
small businesses, as re ported by the National F ederation of Independent 
2. Oth er one-time chan ges inclu ded introduction of con current seasonal adj ustment 
procedu res, chan ges to the m ethod f or meas uring federal employ ment , and con version of th e 
service secto r to a p robab ility-based survey  design—the last secto r to be converted. 
3. In ad dition, after the incorp oration of the n ew, probab ility-based sam ple estimates, th e 
level of the average workweek thro ughout  most of publis hed history wa s revised dow n. 
II-6
II-7
4. Manpower, Inc.'s survey of hiring plans for the third quarter dropped to its lowest level in
twelve years; however, the survey was taken in early April, before the conclusion of the war with
Iraq.   general, this survey has provided more information about current labor market
conditions than prospective conditions.Businesses, were unchanged in May from their low level.4  In contrast, layoff
announcements tumbled in May, according to the outplacement firm Challenger,
Gray, and Christmas, Inc., although th e Board staff’s tally so far for June
suggests that they have moved back up.  
Productivity in the nonfarm business sector increased at an annual rate of
1.9 percent in the first quarter, bringing the change over the four quarters ending
in 2003:Q1 to 2.4 percent—down from its heady 4.4 percent pace over thepreceding four quarters.  n the nonfinan cial corporate sector, productivity rose
2.9 percent (annual rate) in the first quarter and 4.3 percent over the four
quarters ending in 2003:Q1—down from 5.2 percent over the preceding four
quarters.
Industrial Production
Activity in the industrial sector stabilized in May after sizable drops in the
preceding two months.  l production edged up 0.1 percent in May,
and manufacturing output was up 0.2 per cent.  
operating rate was at 72.6 pe rcent in May, the lowest level since 1983.  
May, manufacturing production had eked  out a cumulative gain of just
0.6 percent since the December 2001 trough in IP, by far the weakest recovery
since World War II.   
InI
Total industria
Nonetheless, the factory
As of
II-8
II-9
The improvement in manuf acturing  activity  in May was broadly based. In the 
transportation sector, motor vehicle asse mblies dropped again but by less than in 
the previous three months. An increase in the production of ai rcraft and parts in 
May partially recouped a st rike-induced decline in the output of military aircraft 
in April. Industry contacts sug gest that the remaining lost production will be 
made up in June. 
Manufacturing activity within the hig h-tech sector continued to expand, on 
balance, although developm ents have been mixed. Steady  gains in computer 
output since the beg inning of the year  have boosted the production of hig h
-
value-added semiconductor ch ips, such as microprocessor units, in recent 
months, while the production of other semiconductors, particularly those used in 
cell phones, softened sig nificantly in April and May .5 Output of 
communications equipment—cell phones, equipment used by telecommunications service providers, and the routers, switches, and hubs used in computer networks—dropped in Ma y after having moved sideway s, on 
balance, since the beg inning of the year.
6 
Apart from transportation and hig h-tec h, factory production was up 0.3 percent 
in May after having declined 0.8 per cent in April. Among upstream market 
groups, the output of construction supp lies turned up in May after having 
contracted i n each month since S eptember, and t he output of m aterials also 
moved up. However, the production of  business supplies continued to be 
lackluster. Among market g roups that  align with fina l demand categories, 
production results were g enerally positive. The output of defense and space 
equipment jumped another 2 percent in Ma y, bri nging the average g ain so far 
this year to 0.9 percent per month. In addition, the production of consumer 
goods (ex cluding motor vehicles) rose in May .  In contrast, restrained capital 
spending continued to de press the production of busin ess equipment, which was 
unchanged in May and remained well below its level in May 2002. 
Indicators of near-term manufacturing activ ity are ge nerally consistent with a 
further small rise in i ndustrial production in June. The May reading s on new 
orders from the diffusion index es from th e In
stitute for Supply Manag ement and 
various reg ional surveys all improved in  May and sug gest modest g ains in 
5. Our con tacts at both Motorola and the Sem iconduc tor In dustry Associatio n reported that 
cell phone s ales in  China—20 percent of the w orldwide m arket—collapsed in  April becau se of 
the outbreak of SA RS. Th e United States produces a large s hare of the proces sors and m emory 
chips  used in cell phones, especially  highe r-value chips . 
6. In February 2003, t he Federal  Communi cations  Commissi on issued a ru ling th at chan ges 
the terms u nder which the reg ional Bell operating companies m ust provide co mpetitors access to 
their n etworks. Gen eral reg ulatory un certainty arisin g from  the im plementatio n of this rulin g and 
the prospect of cou rt challen ges may  dam p dem and fo r com muni cation s equipment in th e 
comi ng m onths. 
II-10
II-11
7. The diffusion index from FRB Kansas City is excluded, as it does not have a sufficient
history for seasonal adjustment.manufacturing activity apart from motor vehicles and parts.7  The first glimpse
at June from the Empire State survey also showed a pickup.  
moving average of real adjusted durab le goods orders dipped in April and is
consistent with little change in IP.   Based on the limited data in hand, motor
vehicle assemblies are on track to move  up toward an annual rate of 12 million
units in June—which would add 0.1 percentage point to the rate of change in IP.  
Apart from motor vehicle assemblies and electricity generation, scant available
data suggest that the weekly physical product aggregate will contribute a little to
IP in June.
Motor Vehicles
 
Sales of light motor vehicles declined slightly in May, to an annual rate of
16 million units.  ether, Apr il and May’s sales averaged 16.2 million
units, a bit above the sales pace of 15.8 million units in the first quarter.  n anattempt to bolster sales, automakers raised incentives during April and May,
offering a record high average of $2,200 per vehicle in May.  However, the
surge in sales that has accompanied previous sweetenings of incentives has not The three-month
Taken tog
I
II-12
II-13
yet materialized. Perhaps because th e window on these current deals is open 
longer (through J uly), the sales response will be spread over several months. 
Indeed, some industry contact s have reported a noticeable step-up in sales so far 
in June. 
The g eneral softness in business demand for new capi tal has been reflected i n 
tepid g ains in the sales of motor vehic les to businesses. Fleet sales of light 
vehicles were little chang ed in April and May from their first quarter pace of 
about 3 million units. Howeve r, sales of medium and heavy trucks turned up a 
bit in April and May,
 and new orders for medium and heavy trucks rose in May . 
Although production of light motor ve hicles fell from an annual rate of 
12.7 million units in J anuary to an 11.3 milli on unit rate in Ma y,
 inventories 
remain high. With stocks of 3 million units a t the end of Ma y, de alers held 
more than seventy day s’ supply of light vehicles, well above the target range of 
sixty to six ty-five day s. Despite elevated inventories, manufacturers’ third-
quarter schedules call for a jump in  assemblies to 12.6 million units, nearly 
1 million units more than in the second quart er. As noted earlie r, the partial data 
for June sug gest that assemblies ar e ramping up. However, an underbuild 
relative to current plans would not be surprising, g iven that inventories are hig h 
and that, over the last ten years, th ird-quarter assemb lies have averaged 
3 percent below the scheduled rate. That  said, the hig her schedules may instead 
represent a hedge against possible pr oduction disruptions related to the 
upcoming  contract negotiations with the United Automobile Wor kers (UAW) 
union.8 
Consum er Spending 
Real personal consumption expenditures are likely to post another modest g ain 
in the second quarter after a 2.0 percen t (annual rate) increase in the first 
quarter. Spending on motor vehicles has ri sen a bit, on net, r elative to the  first 
quarter, while real consumer outlay s excluding cars and trucks, which were flat 
in April, rebounded in May . At th e same time, the f undamentals underly ing 
household spending have become more fa vorable: Real disposable income has 
posted solid g ains (driven largely by the retreat in energ y prices), and both the 
stock market and consumer confidence have recovered sm artly fro
m earlier in 
the year. 
8. One factor arg uing again st a strike, accordin g to an indu stry con tact, is that both  sides can 
ill afford a labor s toppag e: The Big Th ree autom akers are in  weak financ ial con dition, and th e 
union, w hich has s een sharp declines in  memb ership in recent years , has an incentive to h elp 
them  maintain their co mpetitive p osition again st non-union  rivals. In ad dition, the UA W 
reportedly is interested in enlistin g the h elp of the B ig Th ree in  organi zing the su pplier secto r. 
They may  theref ore want nego tiatio ns to rem ain on fr iendly terms. 
II-14
II-15
II-16
II-17
In May , nominal sales in the retail control g roup of stores, which excludes 
automotive dealers and building materials and supply stores, edg ed up 
0.1 percent following a decrease in April of 1.0 percent. Falling prices pushed 
down nomina l sales a t gasoline stations last month, but spending rose 
substantially  at most othe r categ ories of  retail outlets. Factoring in the  effect  of 
declining prices, we estimate that r eal retail control increased a robust 
0.7 percent in May , more than reve rsing April’s decrease of 0.3 percent. 
Real outlay s on services rose moderately  in April, the most recent month for 
which data are available. Much of this  increase was due to hig h
er expenditures 
on energ y services. Spending on non-energ y services has been tepid so far this 
year—held down, in part, by weak outla ys for airl ine travel and recreat ion. 
After having posted a substantial rebound in April and May ,  consumer 
sentiment retreated somewhat in early  June, according to the Michigan SRC 
index . The recent fallback occurred as  households’ expectations for business 
conditions—both twelve months and five years hence—reversed part of the 
improvem ent reg istered i n the precedi ng tw o months. Assessment s of current 
conditions we re little  change d in e arly June. Despite the latest de cline in the 
Michigan index , both the Michigan a nd Conference B oard index es remain well 
above their low levels reached earlier in the year. 
Ho usin g Markets 
Activity in the housing market has been  reasonably well maintained in recent 
months, as further declines in mortg age rates have offset much of the downward 
pressure from the soft labor market. Homebuilding was likely held down a bit 
last month by the unusually wet weather. Yet starts of single-family homes rose 
to an annual rate of 1.38 million units, leaving the April-May average only  a 
little below the first-quarter pace. New permit issuance—adjusted for activity in 
areas where permits are not required—w as at an annual rate of 1.37 million 
units in May ,
 close to the first-quart er average; in addition, the backlog of 
unused permits remained near its reco rd high. Along with sharply lower 
mortgage ra tes, the se indic ators sug gest tha t single -family sta rts are likely to 
remain strong in coming months. In the multifamily sect or, starts rebounded 
sharply from their April low and rose to an annual rate of 354,000 units in May , 
a bit above the average over the precedin g six months. With vacancy rates hig h 
and rents de clining , multif amily sta rts are unlike ly to str engthe n sig nificantly 
anytime soon. 
New home sales, which have been excepti onally vig o rous during the past year, 
reached an annual rate of 1.03 million units in April, the third-hig hest level on 
recor d. Existing home sales—a djuste d by the sta ff to elimina te trading -day 
II-18
II-19
variation—were about unchanged in Ap ril at an annual rate of 5.76 million 
units, also one of the hig hest levels on record.9 
Other indicators of housing demand are also quite robust. The four-week 
moving average of t he Mort gage Bankers Association index of purchase 
applications has moved up sharply since mid-May to a new record high. The 
Michigan Survey’s early-June measur e of household attitudes noted a slight 
drop in homebuying attitudes that wa s mainly due to apprehension about 
employment prospects. Nonetheless, th e level of the inde x remains high, with 
fully three-quarters of re spondents mentioning low mortg age rates as a factor 
contributing to favorable  homebuying conditions. 
House prices decelerated modest ly in th e first quarter but cont inued t o post sol id 
gains. The quality -adjusted pric e of new home s sold last qua rter was 
2.6 percent hig her than a year earlier after having posted a 5.9 percent g ain 
during the precedi ng year. The repeat-sales price of ex isting  homes, whi ch 
provides a better reading of the value of the overall stock of housing , was 
6.4 percent hig her in the first quarter of 2003 than in the first quarter of 2002. 
Although this increase was a bit smaller than the 7 percent increase seen during 
the previous year and well below the outsiz ed gains seen in 2000 and 2001, 
prices of ex isting  homes have cont inued t o increase at a faster pace t han t hey di d 
in the mid- and late-1990s. 
Business F ixed Investm ent 
Equipm ent and Softwar e. Bu siness demand for new capital has r emaine d sof t. 
Real outlay s on equipment and softwa re (E& S) fell at an annual rate of 
6.7 percent in the first quarter of 2003, mo re than reversing the increase posted 
in the fourth quarter of last year. Excluding outlay s for transportation 
equipment, E&S spending rose on averag e 1-1/2 percent in both quarters, and 
the data on new orders and sh ipments in April ( the latest  available) point to only 
a moderate pickup in the current quarter. The fundamental drivers of business 
investment a re ge nerally la ckluste r, with  the four-quarter chang es in business 
output and real corporate cash flow early  this y ear both smalle r than in the 
second half of last year. Nonetheless, the user cost of  capital continues to fall. 
In the hig h-tech sector, nominal ship ments of computers soared 20.2 percent 
(not at an annual rate) in April after two months of declines. Since the middle 
of 2001, computer shipments have tended to spike in the first month of each 
quarter and to fall back in the sec ond and third months. Nevertheless, 
9. Th e existin g home  sales series p ublished by  the Natio nal Associatio n of Realtors (NA R) 
increased 5.6 percent in  April after h aving  declin ed by about the s ame amou nt in March .  The 
NAR series is n ot adjusted adeq uately for tradin g-day va riatio n. 
II-20
II-21
10.  he BEA’s preliminary estimate of the first-quarter change in nonresidential
construction showed a slight increase, but recent data on construction put-in-place have led us to
estimate a small decline.smoothing through the recent swings, computer shipments continue to trend
upward; and paired with double-digit decreas es in prices, we expect a solid gain
in real computer outlays this quarter.  Shipments of communications equipment
decreased 3.3 percent in April and have b een essentially flat since the beginning
of the year.   equipment also edged down in April,
although they remained above the level of shipments for the fourth consecutivemonth.  high-tech equipment both fell back in
April after strong showings in March.  These two series ha ve moved essentially
sideways over the past few months.  
Business outlays for transportation equi pment appear poised to make a modest
contribution to the overall increase in equipment spending this quarter.  n
particular, business spending on autos and trucks seems to have edged up in
April and May, and the rise  in new orders for medium  and heavy trucks in May
suggests some impetus to transportation investment for the coming months.  n
contrast, despite a slight increase in Boeing’s production schedules in May, the
most recent data on shipments and net exports of aircraft indicate that outlays
for aircraft by domestic carriers continue to languish at half the level of a year
ago.  
Nonresidential construction.  Real investment in nonresidential structures
continued to fall in the first quarter, although we estimate that the decline
slowed to an annual ra te of 2-1/4 percent.
10  Outlays for office buildings were
down roughly 13 percent (annual rate) in the first quarter , and the data for April 
TOrders for communications
Orders and shipments of non-
I
I
II-22
II-23
II-24
II-25
suggest tha t a furt her drop is like ly in the  curre nt qua rter. With f alling rents and 
rising vacancy rates, the oversupply of office space has shown few sig ns of 
abating . Spending on industrial building s contracted at an annual rate of about 
8 percent in the first quarter, and agai n the data for April point to another 
decline in the  curre nt qua rter. Outla ys for  institutional building s fell at an 
annual rate of nearly 7 percent in the fi rst quarter, offsetting part of the fourth-
quarter ri se, and investment in str uctures by public utilities contr acted at an 
annual rate of r oughly 6 percent. 
Real investment in two categories of nonresidential structures moved up in the 
first quarter, but these g ains seem unlikel y to be repeated in the second quarter. 
Spending in the other commercial sector  rose at an annua l rate of nearly 
10 percent in the first quarter, but fe ll on a monthly basis in both March and 
April. Moreover, rents for both reta il space and warehouses fell again in the 
first quarter, sug gesting demand for such
 space remains very weak. Similarly , 
spending for lodging and miscellaneous stru ctures rose 3-1/2 percent in the first 
quarter but edg ed down in April. 
In the drilling  and mining se ctor, outla ys increased in the  first qua rter at an 
annual rate of 18 percent. The sharp increase in the number of natural g as 
drilling  rigs in ope ration f rom April through mid- June indic ates that drilling 
activity has responded to hi gher natural g as prices, and sug gests that spending 
on drilling and mining structures will likel y increase again in the second quarter. 
Business In ventories 
The book value of manufacturing and tr ade inventories excluding motor 
vehicles rose at an annua l rate of $25.6 billion in the first quarter. However, in 
real terms, these stocks were little chan
ged. Book-value stocks excluding motor 
vehicles declined at an annual rate of $5.4 billion in April, and our guess is that 
they agai n we re little  change d in r eal terms. 
By industry ,  book-value manufacturing  inventories were n early unchanged in 
April, as stock-building by manufactur ers of nondurable goods was about offset 
by a runoff at producers of durable g oods. Non-auto wholesalers liquidated 
inventories at an annual rate  of $5.4 billion in April, in large part the result of a 
runoff at wholesalers of professional and comme rcial equi pment. Non-auto 
retailers’ stocks edg ed down i n Apri l after large run-ups i n the precedi ng five 
months. Book-value inventor ies in all three categories stand at historically very 
low levels r elative to shipments and sales. 
In May , day s’ supply in the staff's fl ow-of-goods system pulled back a bit but 
remained at an elevated l evel, primarily because of t he hi gh le vel of m otor 
II-26
II-27
vehicle stocks.11 Excluding motor vehicles  and parts, the inventory -
consumption ratio has, on balance, move d sidewa ys at a  low level sinc e late 
2002. Outside of motor vehicles, imbal ances are few and include textile mill 
products, paper, communications equi pment, and electri cal equipment. 
Govern ment S ector 
Federal. According to the Monthly Treasur y Statement, defense spending in 
April jumped 30 percent above the year- earlier level. Although the more recent 
daily data indicate m u
ch smal ler year-over-year i ncreases i n these out lays, the 
cumulative dat a indicate a l arge increase i n defense spending  this quarter. 
Monthly data for April show that outla ys excluding defense were essentially 
flat, a reflection of persistent slowing in  spending across many categories and of 
one-time de clines recorded for  seve ral loan prog rams due to r evaluations of the 
subsidy value of the loans. 
At the same time, the monthly Tr easury data  fo r April and daily data throug h 
June 17 cont inue t o point  to weakness i n federal receipts. Apri l collections were 
2-1/2 percent below last y ear’s level, as a sharp dr op in nonwithheld individual 
income and self-employ ment tax es was only partially offset by a rebound in 
corporate i ncom e tax  receipts. While  daily data through June 16 indicate t hat 
corporate receipts cont inued t o post strong  gains rel ative t o year-earl ier figures, 
the increased bonus depreciation provision of the Jobs And Growth Tax Relief 
Reconciliation Act should beg in to sig nificantly damp increases in corporate 
collections i n com ing quarters as a g reater share of inves tment spending falls 
under the new provision.. 
Principal ly because of t he enact ment of t he new t ax la w, the Congressional 
Budget Office now expects the fis cal year 2003 budget deficit to exceed 
$400 billion. In addition, pending leg islation, if enacted, would raise spending 
on Medicare and several ot her nondefense programs. 
The new t ax legi slation accelerates t h e phase-in of m any of t he key provisions 
of the 2001 Tax Act, although on a temporary basis for some of the provisions. 
The main chang es affecting individuals include a boost to the child tax credit 
effective for 2003, which will be delivered  primarily through a round of advance 
11. The FRB  staff’s fl ow-of-g oods  system measures chan ges in invent ories by tracking the 
flow of  goods  in th e econ omy. Th e system di vides the output fr om the staff’s i ndustrial 
production index es into m ore than  sixty  different product categories . For each product category , 
the system es timates the supply of goods  flowing into th e econ omy—that is , domes tic 
product ion plus im ports. Th e system then es timates how mu ch of  the supply flows out, wh ether 
as final  dem and, including  export s, or as  inputs for other goods . Th e difference bet ween the 
amount fl owing in and the amo unt fl owing out represents that cha nge in invent ories. 
II-28
II-29
II-30

II-31
refund checks that will be sent out betw een J uly 25 and Aug ust 8. In addition, 
the new act speeds up the scheduled reduc tions in ma rginal rates, c uts the 
maximum ta x rate on long -term capital g ains realizations f rom 20 pe rcent to 
15 percent through 2008, and sets the tax rate on most divide nd income equal to 
the capital g ains rate through 2008. Employ ers are slated to adjust withholding 
by the beg inning of J uly of this year. On the business side, the act bumps the 
temporary 30 percent depreciation bonus enacted last year up to 50 percent and 
extends its expiration date from September 11, 2004, until the end of 2004. 
In addition to the tax bill, the Congre ss recently extended through December the 
tempor ary unemploy ment bene fits prog ram that was slated t o expire at  the end 
of May . The Senate and H ouse have passed versions of  a small expansion of the 
child ta x credit, while the Senate Finance and House W ays and Means 
Committe es have  approved ve rsions of  a Medic are bill tha t adds a pr escription 
drug benefit beg inning  January 2006. 
State and local governm ents. Indicators of state and lo cal spending continued 
to deteriorate in the second quarter. Employment fell 21,000 in May after a 
smal l rise i n
 Apri l. The revised fi gures for employment now show a net decline 
so far this year, with a siz able drop in employment at the st ate level dwarfing  a 
slight increase at  local  governm ents. Real construction spending edg ed down in 
April after larger decl ines i n the t wo precedi ng m onths, and i t is now at  its 
lowest level since October 2001. Declines  were concentrated in spending for 
building s and for hig hway s. 
Despite the recently enacted addition of  $20 billion in federal aid, many state 
governments are still scrambling to pa ss a balanced g eneral fund budget for 
fiscal year 2004, which beg ins in less than two weeks. Along with spending 
cuts, many states are enacting tax increas es. As they did in fiscal year 2003, 
many jurisdictions will also likely plug budget g aps by borrowing both from 
rainy day and other funds and by issuin g bonds. And more states than in recent 
years have  employed
 othe r, one -time me asures, such as moving pa yments into 
the ne xt fiscal year a nd selling  assets. 
A recent survey from the National League  of Cities indicates that declining 
in
come and sal es tax receipts and reduct ions i n state aid have l ed to sharpl y 
deteriorating fiscal conditions  in many cities. In the ag gregate, about 20 percent 
of city revenue comes from state aid, w ith another 17 percen t from sales ta xes 
and income tax es. So far, property taxes, which account for around 20 percent 
of city revenue, have  held up fairly well, bolster ed by continued strength in 
housing markets. The weakness in reve nues comes at a time of intensify ing 
pressure to spend for homeland security and public safety needs. 
II-32
II-33
Prices and Labor  Cost s 
Overall consumer prices have been moved around in recent months by larg e 
swing s in energ y prices. After having risen rapidly earlier this year, consumer 
energ y prices fel l sharpl y in
 Apri l and Ma y in the wake of the drop in crude oil 
prices in late March. The plunge in energ y prices pushed the twelve-month 
chang e in the overall consumer price index down to 2.1 percent in May from its 
recent peak of 3.0 percent in March. Nonetheless, overall inflation remains 
considerably hig her than the 1.2 per cent rate recorded a year earlier. 
The CPI excluding food and energ y rose 0.3 percent in May after no chang e in 
March and April; the May increase reflected  a 0.5 percent jump in the prices of 
non-energ y services. By contrast, the index for core commodities fell 
0.4 percent last month, with price declin es posted for most categories of goods. 
The core CPI has increased only 1.6 per cent over the last twelve months, well 
below the 2.5 percent run-up during the co mparable period a year earlier. The 
most recent twelve-month chang e is about 3/4 percentag e point above our point 
estimate of 0.9 percentag e point for th e measurement bias in this series. 
Core PCE prices edg ed up 0.1 percent in April (the latest available data) and 
likely increased 0.1 percent again in May . We estimate that core PCE prices 
rose 1.3 percent over the twelve months  ending in May ,
 compared with a 
1.7 percent increase over the preceding  year. The 1/2 percentag e point 
decelerat ion in the P CE measure of core i nflation is noticeabl y less than t he 
1 percentag e point deceleration in the core CP I over the same period, a 
difference t hat largely reflects t he wide r scope of PCE prices. Over the past 
year, t he decelerat ion in the C PI-based port ion of P CE has been i n part offset by 
a pickup in the prices of PCE items th at are not included in the CPI and for 
which no m arket-based prices are avai lable. Most not iceabl e have been an 
upswing in impute d service charge s at financial institutions and a sizable 
increase in prices for travel abroad. By contrast, the market -based component of 
the core  PCE pric e inde x is estimated to have  risen only 3/4 pe rcent ove r the 
twelve months ending in May , down 3/4 percentag e point from a year ago.12 
The most recent twelve-month chang e is a touch above our point estimate of 
0.5 percentag e point for the measurement bi as in this index . The core portion of 
the chained C PI, whi ch like the PCE price index uses a superlat ive ag gregation 
formula intended to take into account substitution by consumers in response to 
chang es in relative prices, rose 1.0 per cent over the twelve months ending in 
May, a deceleration of about 1 percen tage point from the previous year. 
12. The deceleration of  market- based core P CE prices over the pas t year is  slightly les s 
than the deceleration of the C PI; much of the reas on is that the m arked deceleration in the price 
of housing se rvices  gets considerably more wei ght in the  CPI. 
II-34
II-35
Consumer energ y prices fell 3.1 percent in May , as retail prices of g asoline and 
fuel oil dropped sharply for the second c onsecutive month. Survey data for the 
first half of June point to a small incr ease this month in the CPI  for ga soline on a 
seasonally adjusted basis. The May  decline in consumer natural g as prices 
reflected a dropoff in demand due to mild  temperatures. Because the level of 
natur al gas inventories r emains ve ry low, natur al gas pric es are  likely to remain 
quite volatile in the months a head. In contrast to the de clines posted f or othe r 
energ y prices, the CPI fo r electricity increased 1.5 percent in May , likely 
reflecting the lag ged effects of  higher fuel input costs. 
Consumer food prices increased 0.3 per cent in May and have risen 1.7 percent 
over the past twelve months. Fruit and vegetable prices turned up last month, 
more than reversing their April d ecline, and food away from home (about 
40 percent of the overall food category ) poste d a modest increase that is broadly 
consistent with its long-run trend, tracking movement in the core CPI . 
Accordi n g to the P PI, capi tal equipment prices edg ed up i n May aft er a large 
decline in April. The se prices have be en quite volatile of late, owing prima rily 
to erratic movements in the PPI  for light  motor vehicles. Over the past twelve 
months, the PPI for capital equipment edg ed up, on balance, compared with a 
slight decline over the previous twelve months. 
Prices at earl ier stages of processing have decelerated recent ly, reflect in g the 
direct and indirect effects of t he decl ine in energ y prices. The P PI for 
intermediate mate rials fell in both April and Ma y, while pric es for core 
intermediate materials we re about unchanged. The most noticeable of the 
energ y-related swi ngs in core i ntermedi ate mate rials prices i n recent  months 
occurred in the prices of plastics, fertilizers, and industrial chemicals. 
Spot commodity prices have moved up somewhat since the previous Greenbook. 
Bo
th the Journal of Commerce and Co mmodity Research B ureau industrial 
price index es have risen about 1-1/2 to 2 percent over that period. In the 
agricultural sector, corn and soy bean cr ops are off to a good start; however, spot 
prices for these commodities have fluctuated around levels that remain about 
1/4 percent hi gher t han a year earl ier. In contrast, a bumper crop of wheat has 
depressed spot prices of that crop. The Commodity Research B ureau’s index of 
futures prices, which includes both f ood and other commodities, is up about 
2-1/4 percent since the April Greenbook. 
Median expected one-year i n flation as measured by  the Michi gan Survey 
dropped further, to 2.0 percent in May  and early  June, lower than any full month 
since J anuary 2002. Median expectations of  inflation over the nex t five to ten 
years edg ed down 0.2 percentag e point  in early  June, to 2.6 percent. 
II-36
II-37
Average hourly earnings increased 3.2 per cent in the twelve months ended in 
May—up from the 2.6 percent increase recorded a y ear earlier but still about 
1 percentag e point below the pre-recession peak. 
II-38
II-39
II-40
Domestic Financial
Developments                         
III-T-1 
Selected Financial Market Quotations 
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted) 
Change to June 16 from 
2000 2001 2003 2003 selected dates (percentage points) 
Instrument 2000 2001 2003 
June 26 Sept. 10 May 5 June 16 June 26 Sept. 10 May 5 
Short-term 
FOMC intended federal funds rate 6.50 3.50 1.25 1.25 -5.25 -2.25 .00 
Treasury bills 1 
3-month 5.66 3.19 1.11 0.85 -4.81 -2.34 -.26 
6-month 5.94 3.13 1.14 0.86 -5.08 -2.27 -.28 
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates) 
1-month 6.56 3.42 1.21 1.00 -5.56 -2.42 -.21 
3-month 6.56 3.24 1.20 0.95 -5.61 -2.29 -.25 
Large negotiable CDs 1 
1-month 6.64 3.46 1.26 1.05 -5.59 -2.41 -.21 
3-month 6.73 3.26 1.24 0.96 -5.77 -2.30 -.28 
6-month 6.89 3.24 1.22 0.93 -5.96 -2.31 -.29 
Eurodollar deposits 2 
1-month 6.63 3.41 1.25 1.02 -5.61 -2.39 -.23 
3-month 6.69 3.26 1.21 0.95 -5.74 -2.31 -.26 
Bank prime rate 9.50 6.50 4.25 4.25 -5.25 -2.25 .00 
Intermediate- and long-term 
U.S. Treasury3 
2-year 6.54 3.59 1.56 1.17 -5.37 -2.42 -.39 
10-year 6.35 5.14 4.09 3.36 -2.99 -1.78 -.73 
30-year 6.22 5.55 4.97 4.41 -1.81 -1.14 -.56 
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 4.09 3.26 2.08 1.49 -2.60 -1.77 -.59 
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 4 5.99 5.25 5.09 4.78 -1.21 -.47 -.31 
Private instruments 
10-year swap 7.38 5.62 4.29 3.45 -3.93 -2.17 -.84 
10-year FNMA5 7.19 5.68 4.39 3.77 -3.42 -1.91 -.62 
10-year AA 6 7.64 6.30 4.83 4.04 -3.60 -2.26 -.79 
10-year BBB 6 8.40 7.11 5.84 5.08 -3.32 -2.03 -.76 
High-yield 7 12.30 12.72 9.54 9.02 -3.28 -3.70 -.52 
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 8 
30-year fixed 8.14 6.89 5.70 5.21 -2.93 -1.68 -.49 
1-year adjustable 7.22 5.64 3.74 3.54 -3.68 -2.10 -.20 
Change to June 16 
Record high 2001 2003 from selected dates (percent) 
Stock exchange index Record 2001 2003 
Level Date Sept. 10 May 5 June 16 high Sept. 10 May 5 
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 9,606 8,532 9,319 -20.51 -2.98 9.23 
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 1,093 927 1,011 -33.83 -7.49 9.09 
Nasdaq (OTC) 5,049 3-10-00 1,695 1,504 1,667 -66.99 -1.70 10.81 
Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 441 410 457 -24.52 3.80 11.63 
Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 10,104 8,817 9,654 -34.56 -4.46 9.49 
1. Secondary market. 2. Bid rates for eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time. 3. Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities. 4. Most recent Thursday quote. 5. Constant maturity yields estimated from Fannie Mae domestic non-callable coupon securities. 6. Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data. 7. Merrill Lynch Master II high-yield bond. 8. For week ending Friday previous to date shown. _______________________________________________________________________ 
NOTES:
June 26, 2000, is the day before the FOMC meeting that ended the most recent period of policy tightening.
September 10, 2001 is the day before the terrorist attacks.
May 5, 2003, is the day before the most recent FOMC meetings.
_______________________________________________________________________________ 
BA:DAM 
Selected Interest Rates
Expected Federal Funds Rates Estimated from 
Financial Futures Percent 
3.5 
May 5, 2003 June 16, 2003 3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
1.0 
June Nov. Apr. Sept. Feb. July 
2003 2004 2005
Note. Estimates from federal funds and eurodollar futures rates with 
an allowance for term premia and other adjustments. 
Treasury Yield Curve
Percent
5
May 5, 2003 
June 16, 2003 4
3
2
1
0
1 3 5 7 1
0
Maturity in years
Note. Smoothed yield curve estimated using off-the-run Treasury 
coupon securities. Yields shown are those on notional par Treasury 
securities with semiannual payments. 
Long-Term Interest Rates
Percent
9
Daily 
10-year BBB 
30-year municipal* 
10-year Treasury May 6 
FOMC 
June 
16 8
7
6
5
4
3
Jan. May Sept. Jan. May Sept. Jan. May Sept.
2001 2002 2003
*Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency. Implied Distribution of Federal Funds Rate* 
Probability 
35
 June 16, 2003 
May 5, 2003 30
25
20
15
10
5
0 
0.25 0.75 1.25 1.75 2.25 2.75 
* Derived from options on eurodollar futures contracts, adjusted to 
estimate expectations for the federal funds rate. 
Short-Term Interest Rates 
Percent 
Daily 
Adjustment credit rate* Fed. funds 2-year Treasury 
Primary 
credit rate May 6 
FOMC 
June 
16 
Dec. May Oct. Mar. Aug. Jan. June
2000 2001 2002 2003
*On Jan. 9, 2003, the primary credit discount window program 
replaced the adjustment credit discount window program. 
Inflation Expectations Percent 
May 6TIIS-based 5-year* 
TIIS-based 5-year 5-years ahead* 
Michigan Survey** 
June FOMC 8
6
4
2
0 
3.5 
3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 
June Oct. Feb. June Oct. Feb. June
2001 2002 2003
*Daily- the inflation rate at which the price of the indexed security 
equals the value of a portfolio of zero-coupon securities that replicates its payments. **Monthly- median 5 to 10-year inflation expectations. 
Dom estic Financial Developments
Overview 
The May  FOMC announcement pointing to the risks of “an unwelcome 
substantial fall in inflation,” along w ith subsequent comments by the Chairman 
and other F ederal Reserve officials later in the intermeeting period, seemed to 
convince investors that the F OMC woul d move policy ag gressively and hold 
rates lo
wer for longer t han previousl y expected t o ward off any  incipient 
deflationary pressures. This siz able downward revision in the market’s expected 
path for policy pulled down Treasury  and private y ields and boosted equity 
prices. 
The drop in longer-term intere st rates spurred another wa ve of debt restructuring 
in both the business and household sector s. Firms issued a large volume of 
bonds, with the proceeds slated primar ily to pay down co
mmercial paper and 
bank loans, and record numbers of households flocked to refinance home 
mortg ages. State and local government  borrowing also picked up. Federal 
borrowing was robust over recent weeks,  reflecting somewhat weaker-than-
expected tax receipts and an increase in defense spending stemming from the 
war in I raq. 
Po lic y Expectati ons and Interest Rates 
Market part icip ants largely anticipated t he FOMC’s decision at  the May  6 
meeting to leave the target federal f unds rate unchanged. But the accompany ing 
statement apparently surprised invest ors by sig naling that the F OMC was 
prepared to ease policy to g uard agai nst further substantial disinflation. 
Subsequent comments from F ederal Re serve officials were viewed as 
reinforcing this messa ge. 
Investors marked down their expected pa th for policy substantially, and options 
data sug gest that uncertainty about the future path of  policy has fallen 
considerably as well. Options on federa l funds futures now imply that investors 
are virtually  certain tha t the FOMC will e ase at  the June me eting; they are 
placing about equal odds on a quarter-point versus a half-point easing .  Fu
rther 
ahead, eurodollar futures options sug gest that investors revised up the 
probability tha t they attach to ta rget ra tes of less tha n 75 basis points by late this 
year. 
Despite inc o ming  economic news tha t was close t o ma rket expectat ions, on 
balance, and the deterior ating outlook for the federal budget, nominal Treasury 
yields declined 32 to 65 basis points ove r the intermeeting period. Both market-
and sur vey-based me asures of long er-ter m inf lation e xpectations e dged a little 
lower, but  these indicators are wel l within the range observed over the last few 
years. In fact , judging  from the inf lation-index ed yields, much of the drop in 
III-2
III-3
longer-term nom in al Treasury  yields appears t o reflect a decl ine in expected real 
interest rates that, in turn, may be attributable to the chang e in policy outlook. 
Stock Prices an d Corporate Interest Rates 
Major equity price index es have risen between 9 a nd 11 percent since the last 
FOMC meeting,
 with small cap, biotech, and I nternet stocks outperforming the 
broade r inde xes. Implied-volatility has r emaine d low sinc e the end of milita ry 
action in I raq. In addition to the substantial f all in r eal interest rates, stoc k 
prices have been bolstered by the mo st stable earnings outlook since early 2000; 
over the past three months, almost no downward revisions have been made to 
year-ahead forecasts of S &P 500 earning s per share. Also, the passag e of the 
fiscal stimulus pa ckage  may have provided some  additional lift f or equity pric es, 
but there i s scant evi dence t hat investors have shi fted their preferences t oward 
stocks with hig her dividends. Despite the increase i n share val ues, t he equi ty 
risk pr emium appa rently has not narrowed, as the forward earnings-price ratio–a 
proxy for the required return on equities–has fallen by about as much as real 
long-term Treasury  yields. 
Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds fell along with those on comparable 
Treasury securities over the intermeeting period, leaving their spreads roughly 
unchanged. Yields on speculative-g rade bonds  fell by slightly less than those on 
comp
arabl e Treasuri es, and spreads wide ned modestly . Issuance of hig h-yield 
bonds has been robust, and the onslaught of new bonds coming to market may 
have put some upward pressure  on specul ative-g rade spreads. 
Business F inanc e 
Low long-term y ields proved quite allu ring to many businesses, and g ross 
corporate bond issuance jumped last month to its hig hest monthly level in two 
years, with g ross junk bond issuance reaching a historical peak. Issuance so far 
this month has not matched the pace in May but nonetheless has remained 
strong . Many firms report that they have continued to use the bulk of the 
proceeds from bond issuance to pay down exis ting debt, consistent with declines 
in commercial paper outsta nding and bank credit. The amount of net borrowing 
this quarter is about roughly equal to its first quarter pace. 
Gross public equity issuance by nonfinanci al firms picked up some in May from 
the extremely slow pace in March and Apr il. Energ y and utility firms continued 
to account for most of the seasoned equity offerings, in many cases to pay down debt. Also, although the nonfinancial I PO market finally ended its four-month 
drought in May , the longest since 1975, the streak was broken by just a single 
$10 million offering . However, an $80 milli on tech offering was well received 
last week, and a number of I POs are on t he calendar for t he near fut ure, 
development s that perhaps reflect  the recent rise i n stock prices. With the 
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
exception of Oracle’s recent hostile, a nd quickly snubbed, bid for PeopleSoft, 
talk of me rgers remaine d
 spor adic even as financial market conditions have 
improved. Announcements of share repur chases are likely to repeat last 
quarter’s  modest f low. Still, with g ross new of ferings r emaining low, net equity 
issuance should remain in solidly negative territory this quarter. 
Corporate Earnings and Credit Quality 
With the first-quarter earnings season essentially comple te, S&P 500 operating 
earnings pe r share are es timated to have  risen 11 pe rcen
t from last y ear’s  levels. 
Howeve r, the spike in oil pric es resulted in the thr ee largest oil c ompa nies 
accounting for about two-thirds of that g ain. Moreover, the rise in fuel costs 
was not y et fully accounted for in the income statements of oil-consuming 
industries last quarter. In the second qua rter, the reversal in oil prices has 
removed this boost to earnings, which accounts for a good part of the slowdown 
in ag gregate earnings g rowth expected by anal ysts for t his quarter. 
Measures of credit quality for nonfinancial  firms either held steady or improved 
somewhat of late. The six -month tra iling default rate on corporate bonds has 
chang ed little in recent months after dropping back around the turn of the year, 
while th
e net pace of rat ings downgrades continued t o moderat e in the second 
quarter. In addition, deli nquency rates on C& I bank loan s fell somewhat in the 
first quarter from elevated l evels. The forecast of ag gregate year-ahead defaul t 
rates based on the KMV model plunged in  April and dropped again in May , a 
reflec tion of hig her stock pric es and lowe r asset pric e volatility . 
Com mercial Real  Estate 
Despite  continuing de clines in construction a ctivity, c o mme rcial mor tgage  debt 
increased about 7 percent at an annual ra te in the first quarter, a pace that is 
likely to be exceeded in the second quart er. Gross CMB S issuance in April and 
May was strong on average, and issues set to price in June sug gest that issuance 
this quarter will be comparable to the rapid pace of the fourth quarter of last 
year. The CMB S delinquency rate ha s ticked up in recent months from low 
historical levels. Noneth eless, investors continue to show little concern about 
credit quality; spr eads on CMB S over swaps contr acted furt her over the 
intermeet ing period and are now at  the l ow end of t heir ranges i n recent  years. 
House hold F inanc e 
Household debt, whi ch rose t o  a 10 percent pace i n the first quarter, appears on 
track to post anothe r substantial g ain in the  curre nt qua rter; the inc rease  stems 
from a record amount of refinancing activ ity. Many households have refinanced 
for the second or third time in as many  years, and the average amount of home 
equity extracted per dollar of mortg age refinanced has ebbed somewhat. 
Nonethe less, the  estimated volume of home  equity  extracted has r isen to a ve ry 
III-8
III-9
III-10
III-11
high le vel because of t h e large number of m ortgages being refinanced. 
Meanwhi le, consumer credi t is likel y to accelerate a bi t from  the modest  growth 
of recent quarters; in par ticular, nonrevolving credit expanded briskly in April, 
an apparent response to the step-up in  auto financing incentives during that 
month. 
The credit quality of the household sector  has been holding steady on balance, 
with limited pockets of distress. The delinquency rate on credit card loans at 
commercial banks moved down in the first quarter, and rate s on other types of 
loans, such as credit card loans in s ecuritized pools and nonrevolving consumer 
loans at commercial banks, have continued to hover in  fairly narrow ranges. 
However, the bankruptcy rate remain s qui te elevated despi te a smal l 
improvement in the past few weeks. 
Recent g ains in share values have pushed the ratio of household assets to income 
somewhat above its level at the end of  last year. Consistently positive net 
inflows to equity mutual funds since mid-March sug gest that households have 
renewed their confidence in the stock ma rket, and inflows into hig h
-yield bond 
mutual funds have also remained siz able. 
State and Loc a l Gove rnme nt Financ e 
The underly ing pace of g ross municipa l bond issuance remained quite strong , 
reflect in
g efforts by state and l ocal governments to cope with ongoing tax 
shortfalls. A $10 billion tax able bond us ed to fund Illinois’s pension liability 
augmented long-term issuance in June, and California’s ro llover of $11 billion 
in securities that had been issued to d eal with the state’s fiscal crisis boosted 
short-te rm issua nce.  At the same time, the substantial de cline in y ields 
following the last F OMC me eting has bolstered issuance for advance 
refundings, which remain  near recent levels. 
The recent dividend and capital g ains tax cu ts appeared to have had little visible 
effect on municipal bond y ields. Af ter a siz able net downgrade in 2002, 
municipal bond rating s upgrades and downgra des have been roughly balanced so 
far th
is year, but  the spread of BBB- over AAA-rat ed municipal bond y ields has 
widened since the last F OMC meeting and remains quite hig h by historical 
levels. 
Treasury an d Agency F ina nce 
The Cong ress raised  the federal debt limit last month to a level tha t likely will 
not bind Treasury borrowing until at least early nex t year. Faced with the 
prospe ct of la rge deficits for some  year s, the Tr easury is inc reasingly shifting 
issua nce patte rns towa rd long er-ter m securities, a move tha t will appr eciably 
III-12

III-13
length en the average m aturity of Treasur y debt, which now stands at its lowest 
level since 1985. 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have scaled back t h eir reference and benchmark 
note program s, in part because of re newed Treasury  issuance and slug gish 
growth of their on-balance-sheet mortg age portfolios. Demand for F reddie Mac 
securities has be en curta iled somewha t lately  following  revelations of  alleged 
accounting ir regula rities tha t led to the depa rture of its top thr ee officers and 
news of impending investigations by the SEC and J ustice Department. The 
price of Freddie Mac’s stock dropped, and credit default swap spreads on its 
debt moved sharply hig her in response.  Although F annie Mae’s stock price also 
declined, and its c redit de fault swa p spreads rose a few basis points, there 
appears to be little, if  any, lasting spillove r into broade r financial ma rkets. 
Money and Bank C redit 
M2 g rowth  surged i n May part ly because of special factors. Thi s year, t otal tax 
payments were som ewhat weaker t han expected, so the April build-up and May 
run-offs in balances were damped rela tive to the pattern embedded in seasonal 
factors. Also, t he recent spi ke in mort gage refinanci ng and t he accom pany ing 
bulge in escrow accounts that serve as temporary repositories of funds in 
connection with prepayments on MBS lik ely contributed to the pickup in M2 
growth last month. 
Withdrawals from retail money funds over recent months have been associated 
with a fall in money fund y ields relative to rates paid on bank deposits. Lo
w 
yields on short-term secur ities have pressure d some money market mutual funds 
to reduce fees to keep investors'  yields in positive territory, although the assets 
under manag ement in such funds represen t less than 1 percent of total money 
market fund assets. 
Bank credit maintained its recent strong  growth in May.  Falling mortgage rates 
spurred continued robust demand for home purchases and mortg age 
refinancing s, and banks con tinued to acquire MBS. But the ongoing contraction 
in commercial and industr ial lending partially  offset these factors. 
The May Survey of Terms of B u siness Lending indicates a downward shift of 
the ent ire distribut ion of rat e spreads, as t he average spread on C &I loans over 
comparabl e-maturi ty ma rket rat es at domest ic banks decl ined from  the previous 
quarter. For loans not made under commitment, which are mo re representative 
of recent pricing conditions, spreads declined for both hig her-risk and lower-risk 
loans, a trend that is largely consiste nt with the corporate bond market over the 
same period. 
III-14
III-15
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S. International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The U.S. international trade deficit in April was $42 billion, slightly smaller than
recorded in March (revised) as ex ports declined less than imports.
Exports of goods and services decreased 2.2 percent in April.  There weredeclines in most trade categories, with the largest in services (reduced foreigntravel in the United States) and capital equipment, both of which fell for the
second consecutive month.  The value of exported industrial supplies eased
slightly from the high levels recorded during the first three months of the year,largely accounted for by fuels and chemicals.
Imports of goods and services fell 2.1 percent in April, with declines
concentrated in petroleum and natural gas.  The valu e of petroleum and natural
gas, which jumped up in March reflectin g a run up in prices, fell in April as
prices declined.  Imports of auto motive products turned down in April,
continuing a pattern of declines begun in January.  In contrast, imports of capitalgoods rose in April, reversing part of the declines recorded during the previous
three months.  Services payments fell for the third consecutive month, largely
because of reduced U.S. travel abroad.
All previously published trade data were revised beginning in 1992.  The deficit
in net exports of goods and services in 2003:Q1 is now $486 billion at an annual
rate, $14 billion smaller than published previously.  For th e fourth quarter of last
year the deficit is $17 billion smaller.  Small upward revisi ons were made to
exports (by $2-3 billion at an annual rate in both Q4 and Q1).  The level ofimported goods and services was revise d down significantly (by $15 billion at an
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
annual rate in Q4 and $11 billion in Q1), primarily because of services
transactions.
Prices of Internatio nally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In May, the price of importe d non-oil goods declined slightly
(0.2 percent).  Prices of imported com puters and semiconductors  fell moderately,
and prices of core goods showed a marginal decline (mostly foods and
unfinished metals).  In April, non-oil import prices (a nd core goods prices) had
fallen sharply, reflecting a reversal of the sharp run up in prices of imported
natural gas in March.  The price index for core goods in April-May, on average,
declined nearly 1 percent at an annual rate from the first quarter and followed ajump of 5 percent in the first quarter.   When natural gas and other fuels are
excluded from the index, prices of th e remaining imported core goods rose
fractionally in April-May, on average, from the level in the first quarter, and theincrease in the first quarter was 1½ percent at an annual rate.  
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil fell 1 percent in April following a revised
18 percent drop in March.  The spot pri ce of West Texas Intermediate (WTI)
crude oil fell more steeply in April than the BLS price, averaging about
$28.25 per barrel, down more than $5 per barrel from its March average.  The
commencement of military action in Iraq and the relatively rapid conclusion of
the war led the spot price of WTI to fall to less than $26 per ba rrel by late-April. 
Increased OPEC oil production, particul arly by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and
Venezuela (where oil produc tion recovered substantia lly from low first-quarter
levels), also contributed to the price decline.  In May and June, delays in thereturn of Iraqi exports, along with recent terrorist bombings in the Middle East,have helped push the price of WTI to more than $30 per barrel.  Spot WTI
closed on June 17 at $31.07 per barrel.
Exports.  In May, the price of exported g oods rose slightly.  Most of the 0.2
percent increase in the price of exporte d core goods was from rising prices of
agricultural products (particularly soybean s, wheat, corn, and meat).  Prices of
exported industrial supplies declined for the second consecutive month led by
decreasing prices of petroleum and precious metals.  The price index for coregoods in April-May on average rose just  over 1 percent at an annual rate from
the first quarter and followed an increase of nearly 4 percent in the first quarter.
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
Treasury data recorded a $3 billion decrease in foreign official assets in the
United States in April, following a $9 billion increase in March (line 1 of theSummary of U.S. International Transactions  table).  The first quarter as a whole
saw very strong official inflows of  $37 billion, similar to the amount in the
fourth quarter of last year.  Notwithstanding the $3 billion outflow in April,
IV-6
second quarter inflows should also be  very strong: May data from custody
accounts at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York show a $37 billion increase
for the month, led by large increases for Japan (associated with its official
exchange intervention), Korea, China, and Russia.
Foreign private net purchases of U.S. securities (line 4) surged in March and
showed continued strength in April.  The $65 billion in inflows in Marchbrought the total for the first quarter to $95 billion, in line with the quarterlyaverage from last year.  In the quarter, strong inflows were recorded for all typesof U.S. debt securities, but especially  corporate bonds.  Robust purchases of debt
securities continued in Ap ril and comprised nearly all of the $47 billion in
inflows in the month, with inflows into corporate bonds again leading the way. Purchases of other debt securities–Treasuries and agencies–were sizeable inMarch and April, following only modest in flows in the first two months of the
year.  Inflows into U.S. equities, while small, have been positive in the past twomonths.
As is typical, about one-half of the securities inflows in the first quarter
originated in the United Kingdom, but purchases from Asia, especially China,
were also substantial.  It should be noted, however, that given China’s severe
restrictions on outward portfolio inve stment, recorded inflows from China’s
private sector are likely made by public entities outside the official sector. 
The first quarter marked a resumption of substantial U.S. acquisitions of foreign
equities, with $20 billion in straight pur chases (line 5b) and another $14 billion
in a merger-related stock swap (line 5c).  Although the equity acquisitions
ceased in April and U.S. investors have on net sold foreign bonds this year, the
year-to-date acquisitions of  all foreign securities ( line 5) totaled $26 billion in
the first four months of this year, c onsistent with levels  of 2001 and previous
years.
Net capital flows in the banking sector (line 3) amounted to an outflow of $27
billion in the first quarter that was more than reversed by a $43 billion inflow inApril.
Full balance of payments data for the fi rst quarter, including direct investment,
will be released on June 19 and di scussed in the Greenbook Supplement.
IV-7
IV-8
Foreign Exchange Markets
The most salient developments in global financial markets over the intermeeting
period were the continued drop in the exchange value of the dollar and the sharpfall in long-term interest rates in all major industr ial economies.  The drop in
yields began as a reaction to the con cerns over disinflati on expressed in the
May 6 statement of the FOMC.  Further declines in long-term yields came in thewake of statements by Federal Reserve officials about policy measures available
to head off deflation in a low short-te rm interest rate environment, such as
increasing purchases of long-term bonds or  capping their yields.  Despite the
lackluster pace of global economic activity , equity prices in major financial
markets rose substantially during th e intermeeting period.  Equity prices
appeared to be boosted by moderately upbeat earnings news in several sectors
and by the growing market perception that policy interest rates were likely toremain at extremely low levels in the foreseeable future.
The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major currencies index,
dropped 3½  percent over the intermeeting period, continuing a trend that beganabout a year ago.  The dollar’s decline was particularly sharp in the first half of
the period.  Continued concerns about the financing burden of the large and
growing U.S. current account deficit weig hed on the dollar, as did statements by
Treasury Secretary Snow that seemed to signal a shift away from the U.S.authorities’ long-standing but indeterminate “strong dollar” policy.  The
IV-9
potential benefits to the United States of a weaker dollar – increased exports and
decreased deflationary pressu res – were widely cited as  reasons for the perceived
shift in policy.  Later in the period, however, perhaps in part in reaction to
concerns expressed by se veral of our major tradin g partners, President Bush
reaffirmed on several occasions the administration’s commitment to a strong
dollar.  During the intermeeting pe riod, the dollar was little changed on net
against the currencies of our ot her important trading partners.
On balance, the dollar depreciated agains t all individual major foreign currencies
over the intermeeting period, falling 3¾ pe rcent against the euro.  The dollar’s
exchange value versus the euro retr eated for the first time since early 1999
beyond its level at the time of the euro’s debut, reaching an all-time low above1.19 $/
/G76 in late May before retracing slightly.  The dollar depreciated
4½ percent against sterling.  On June 9, the British government announced that it
would not hold a referendum this year on EMU entry, but that it may do so next
year; this “not yet” decision was not a surprise.  During the period, the dollar
also depreciated 5½ percent against the Canadian dollar and 2 percent vis-a-vis
the Swiss franc.
In contrast, the dollar depreciated ¼ percent on balance versus the yen.  Japan’s
Ministry of Finance continued to intervene heavily in an attempt to prevent itscurrency’s appreciation.  The MoF purchas ed nearly $38 billion dollars over the
intermeeting period, pushing Japan’s fore ign currency reserves to more than
$500 billion.
In monetary policy actions, the Eur opean Central Bank lowered its minimum
refinancing rate 50 basi s points to 2.0 percent, and the National Bank of
Denmark and Sweden’s Riksbank lowere d rates by the same amount.  Also
during the intermeeting period, the Rese rve Bank of New Zealand lowered its
main policy rate 25 basis points and the Bank of Japan adjusted its target range
for current account balances up from ¥22–27 trillion to ¥27–30 trillion. Reflecting the ECB’s action, three-month euro rates fell about 35 basis pointsover the period.  Canadian and Australian three-month rates declined moremodestly, while sterling rates rose slightly.  
Long-term rates, as menti oned above, fell dramatically in all industrial countries
over the period, but have retraced some what in recent days.  On balance,
ten-year sovereign yields  fell about 45 basis points in the euro area and the
United Kingdom, somewhat less than the 60 to 70 basis point drop in the United
States and Canada.  Japane se ten-year benchmark yields fell a further 6 basis
points, reaching multi-decade lows. 
IV-10
Equity indexes registered gains over the intermeeting period in all major
industrial countries, ranging from 6¼ per cent in Canada to about 11 percent in
Japan.  Japanese banking sector shares rose more than 15 percent; the Japanese
government announced in mid-May that it would bail out Japan’s fifth-largest
financial institution, Resona Holdings, injecting th e yen equivalent of about $17
billion.    Equity prices also rose in a number of  emerging market ec onomies, particularly
in Asia, where receding concerns over SARS  and signs of recovery in the global
high-tech sector interacted to generate large gains.  Share prices rose 19 percentin Taiwan and Thailand, 13 percent in Korea, and 12 percent Hong Kong over 
the period.  Equity prices also rose in  Latin America, although generally more
moderately than in Asia.  The exception was Argentina, where equity prices rosemore than 21 percent.  The Argentine peso was little changed, on net, over theperiod.  The Brazilian real appreciated about 3½ percent against the dollar, as
President Lula appeared to move closer to an agreement with Brazil’s Congresson a reform of civil service pensions.  The Mexican peso, in contrast,depreciated about 3½ percent, in pa rt on concerns about a slowdown in
IV-11
economic activity.  Latin American sove reign bond spreads declined moderately
over the intermeeting period.
IV-12
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
On average, real GDP growth remained weak in the first quarter in major foreign
industrial countries, as external de mand sagged amid heightened geopolitical
uncertainties and, in some countries, local  currency appreciati on that had taken
place over the previous year.  Net exports contributed negatively to growth in allmajor foreign industrial countries, but domestic demand re mained strong in
Canada.  Limited data for the second quarter do not inspire much optimism for
the near term, with no apparent bounceback in activity following the ebbing ofconflict in Iraq. 
Twelve-month rates of consumer price in flation fell in recent months, reflecting
both declines in oil prices and local cu rrency appreciations.  Canadian headline
inflation dipped to 3 percent in April, while euro-area inflation fell below 2
percent in May for the first time since June 2002.  Inflation fell below 1 percent
in Germany where recession is expected to continue.  In Japan, deflationcontinued.
Earlier this month the European Centra l Bank (ECB), the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand, the Swedish Riksbank, and Denm ark’s central bank lowered official
interest rates.  The Bank of Japan (B OJ) eased monetary policy in late May,
increasing its target range for the outst anding balance of reserve accounts held
by private financial institutions at the BOJ. 
In Japan, real GDP growth slowed to a revise d 0.6 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the first
quarter.  Business fixed inve stment advanced for the fourth straight quarter,
increasing 2.8 percent, while private consumption expanded 0.8 percent.  A
slowing in the pace of inventory decu mulation added about ½ percentage point
to growth.  However, public investme nt continued to contract sharply,
subtracting 0.8 percentage point from growth, and reside ntial investment
declined nearly 5 percent.  Net exports also contributed negatively to growth, as
exports fell and imports rose only slightly.
Most available indicators for the sec ond quarter suggest that economic activity
remains sluggish.  Indus trial production fe ll 1.5 percent in April from the
previous month.  Real exports continue d to contract, declining 1.3 percent in
April from the previous month, while imports fell 0.8 percent.  Household
expenditures rose 1.2 percent in Apr il from March, but were up only slightly
from the first-quarter average.  New car  registrations rebounded in May, but the
average for April and May was about 6 pe rcent below the first-quarter average. 
Core machinery orders, a leading indicat or of business fixe d investment, fell 
IV-13
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
GDP -2.4 2.4 5.4 2.6 1.5 .6
Total domestic demand -1.8 1.3 3.6 3.6 .0 .9
Consumption 1.4 1.4 1.3 2.5 -.2 .8
Private investment -10.6 2.2 4.3 4.4 7.6 1.5
Public investment -1.2 -6.0 -11.0 -10.8 -9.8 -12.3
Government consumption 2.3 1.4 .3 3.1 .4 2.5Inventories
2-.6 .3 2.6 1.5 -.7 .4
Exports -11.0 17.7 30.0 .2 18.9 -1.6
Imports -7.1 8.7 13.4 11.1 5.8 .5
Net exports2-.6 1.1 1.9 -.9 1.5 -.2
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
1.8 percent in April.  On the other ha nd, non-residential build ing starts were up
about 4 percent in April from the first-quarter average
The unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.4 percent in April, only a bit below
the record-high 5.5 percent rate in January .  The job-offers-to-applicants ratio, a
leading indicator of employment, remained steady at 0.6 in April.  Core
consumer goods prices in the Tokyo area (which exclude fresh food but includeenergy) fell marginally in May and we re down 0.4 percent from a year earlier. 
Wholesale prices for domestic goods d eclined 1 percent in May from a year
earlier.  Recently released data show that urban land prices were down 7.1percent in March from a year earlier. 
On May 20 the Bank of Japan raised its ta rget range for the outstanding balance
of reserve accounts held by private fi nancial institutions at the BOJ from
¥22-27 trillion to ¥27-30 trillion.  In its announcement, the BOJ noted its
“determination to ensure financial market stability” in the wake of thegovernment's decision on May 17 to inj ect close to ¥2 trillion ($17 billion) into
Resona Holdings, Japan's fifth largest banking institution, to shore up its capital
position.  Resona failed to meet Japa nese minimum capital standards after 
IV-14
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Feb. Mar. Apr. May
Industrial production12.0 .4 .4 -1.6 .1 -1.5 n.a.
All-industries index .3 -.3 .6 -.8 .7 n.a. n.a.
Housing starts -4.6 1.7 .7 -3.5 -4.8 5.6 n.a.
Machinery orders2.1 -.1 5.8 -6.8 3.8 -1.8 n.a.
Machinery shipments31.3 2.3 .2 -2.6 -1.4 1.2 n.a.
New car registrations 5.0 -1.0 1.5 .1 -.2 -11.1 12.2
Unemployment rate45.4 5.4 5.4 5.2 5.4 5.4 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.54 .57 .60 .61 .60 .60 n.a.
Business sentiment6-30 -28 -26 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-.9 -.7 -.7 -.7 -.7 -.4 -.4
Wholesale prices7-2.0 -1.3 -.9 -.9 -.7 -.8 -1.0
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.
4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
auditors forced the bank to exclude fro m capital a substantial portion of deferred
tax assets.  The government will hol d ¥280 billion of common stock and nearly
¥2 billion of preferred shares (with voting rights) once the capital injection is
complete, giving it 70 percent of the voting rights at Resona.  
On June 11, the BOJ announced details of  its plan to purchase asset-backed
securities (ABS) issued to help finance small- and medium-sized enterprises.  Tobe eligible for BOJ consideration, longer-term ABS must be rated BB or higher,while asset-backed commercial paper must meet a stricter A-1 rating hurdle.  The
BOJ will purchase ABS from late Ju ly 2003 through March 2006, and will
initially limit its total purchases to ¥1 tr illion ($8.5 billion) over this period.   
IV-15
Euro-area  real GDP was flat in the first qua rter, as modest gains in private
consumption were offset by a steep fall in investment, the largest decline since
1996.  In addition, exports fell while impor ts grew, resulting in a substantial
negative contribution from net exports.  A slowing in the pace of inventory
decumulation helped to keep overall GDP growth from declining.  German,Italian and the Dutch growth rates were negative in the first quarter.   Italian GDPwas pulled down by a decline in privat e consumption, while Germany and the
Netherlands suffered large declines in investment. 
Euro-Area Real GDP
1
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20012200222002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
GDP .6 1.2 1.6 1.3 .3 .0
Total domestic demand .1 .9 .7 1.0 1.8 2.0
Consumption 1.6 .9 1.1 1.8 1.7 1.4
Investment -2.4 -1.7 -5.1 .6 .3 -5.4
Government consumption 2.0 2.4 3.0 1.8 .7 .9
Inventories3-.7 .2 .5 -.5 .5 2.1
Exports -2.3 3.7 8.6 8.3 -.7 -2.5
Imports -3.8 3.0 6.6 8.2 3.2 2.5
Net exports3.5 .4 .9 .3 -1.4 -1.9
Memo:
France .7 1.5 2.0 1.3 -.2 1.0
Germany .1 .7 .6 1.2 -.1 -.9Italy .7 .9 1.4 .5 1.7 -.4
1. Includes Greece as of 2001 Q1.
2. Q4/Q4.3. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Incoming data suggest continued stagnation in the second quarter.  Although
euro-area industrial production rose in Apr il, it has remained e ssentially falt since
the beginning of the year.  The May euro-area purchasing managers’ index (PMI)for manufacturing, a timely indicator of production, fell further below the 50threshold for positive growth.  The European Commission’s measure ofindustrial confidence also declined in May.  German indus trial produc tion ticked
down in April, while the volume of German industry orders rose 1.4 percent in
IV-16
April, recovering only part of the sharp decline in March, to a level of about 1
percent below the first-quarter average. 
Surveys of consumer confidence in the euro area also have continued to fall,
primarily owing to increases in expecta tions of unemploymen t, particularly in
Germany.  Consistent with the survey results, the April euro-area unemploymentrate was above the first-quarter averag e rate.  In Germany, unemployment was
10.7 percent in May.
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Feb. Mar. Apr. May
Industrial production1.2 .1 .2 .3 -.7 .4 n.a.
Retail sales volume2.8 -.4 .5 -.8 -1.2 n.a. n.a.
Unemployment rate38.4 8.5 8.7 8.7 8.8 8.8 n.a.
Consumer confidence4-10 -14 -19.3 -19 -21 -19 -20
Industrial confidence4-11.3 -10.0 -11.3 -11 -12 -12 -13
Mfg. orders, Germany -1.2 .3 .0 -.7 -3.2 1.4 n.a.
CPI52.1 2.3 2.3 2.4 2.4 2.1 1.9
Producer prices5.0 1.2 2.4 2.6 2.4 1.7 n.a.
M357.1 6.9 7.9 7.9 7.9 8.7 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Excludes motor vehicles.3. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO definition.   Includes Eurostat estimates in some       
         cases.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.     n.a.  Not available.
The European Central Bank (ECB) reduced its main policy rate, the minimum
bid rate for the refinancing tender, 50 basis points to 2 percent at its June
meeting.  The move largely had been si gnaled by comments from ECB officials.  
ECB President Duisenberg stressed that the ECB aims to keep inflation rates“below but close to 2 percent over the me dium term” and argued that “there are
currently no forecasts indicating any deflationary risks” for the euro area. Implicitly addressing the concern that  Germany could experience deflation, he
IV-17
stated that “within a monetary union, deflation is not a meaningful concept when
applied to individual regions.”  Bank of  France Governor Jean-Claude Trichet
was acquitted of charges in the Credit Ly onnais scandal.  The verdict clears the
way for Mr. Trichet to take  over as head of the ECB when Duisenberg steps
down, most likely during the summer.
Euro-area twelve-month consum er price inflation declined to 1.9 percent in May,
falling below the ECB’s target ceiling for the first time since June 2002,
according to the preliminary estimate.  Excluding energy and unprocessed food,inflation was 2.2 percent in April, up fro m the 2 percent rate  it had maintained
throughout the first quarter of 2003.  German twelve-month consumer price
inflation declined to 0.7 percent in Ma y from 1.0 percent in April, as consumer
prices fell for the second month in a row. 
In the United Kingdom , first-quarter real GDP growth was weak after lackluster
fourth-quarter growth.  Substantial growth in governme nt spending was offset by
a deceleration in consumer spending and a decline in gross fixed capital
formation.  Net exports declined as impor ts rose considerably while exports were
flat.
U.K. Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
GDP 1.9 2.2 2.4 4.3 1.5 .6
Total domestic demand 2.3 3.4 -.3 5.2 6.8 2.0
Consumption 4.3 3.6 4.5 3.1 4.3 1.6
Investment -5.0 -1.1 3.6 -1.0 1.8 -.5
Government consumption 4.6 2.2 -5.3 1.5 4.2 5.8
Inventories2-.4 .9 -3.1 3.2 3.0 .1
Exports -4.6 -.7 16.9 -4.3 -13.6 .2
Imports -2.5 3.0 5.5 .7 1.0 3.0
Net exports2-.6 -1.4 3.1 -1.8 -5.2 -1.1
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
IV-18
Data for the second quarter suggest that  the pace of activity is recovering, but
remains sluggish.  Whereas industrial production slid 0.4 percent in the first
quarter, it rose 0.2 percent in April, a nd business confidence recovered somewhat
in May.  May’s Purchasing Managers  Index (PMI) for manufacturing ticked
down after rebounding somewhat in April,  and still suggests further contraction
in the sector.
Retail sales grew mildly in April after being unchanged in the first quarter.  The
leading survey of retail sales points to further improvement in May.  Consumer
confidence recovered for the second mont h in a row in May, though sentiment
remains below its level in late 2002. 
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Feb. Mar. Apr. May
Industrial production .4 -.9 -.4 .5 -.8 .2 n.a.
Retail sales volume1.7 1.6 .0 .2 .7 .3 n.a.
Unemployment rate2
      Claims-based 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1
      Labor force survey35.2 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.1  n.a. n.a.
Business confidence410.7 3 -1.3 -1 -5 -10 -3
Consumer confidence5-3.0 -3 -10 -10 -11 -8 -6
Retail prices62.0 2.6 2.9 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.9
Producer input prices7-2.3 1.4 4.9 6.2 4.2 .7 1.1
Average earnings73.8 3.7 3.4 2.5 4.4 2.6 n.a.
1. Excludes motor vehicles. 
2. Percent3. Three-month average centered on month shown.4. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage     
      expecting output to decrease.
5. Average of the percentage balance from consumers’ expectations of their financial              
       situation, general economic situation, unemployment, and savings over the next 12                     months.
6. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.7. Percent change from year earlier....  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
The rate of increase in housing prices is slowing.  The April/May average of
housing prices was 2 percent higher than  the first-quarter average, down from an
increase of 4.4 percent in the first quarter .  The deceleration in prices has spread
IV-19
beyond London to most other regions of  the country.  Net mortgage lending
remained elevated through April, while  the growth of other consumer credit
slowed.
The labor market continues to be tight as  both the official claims-based and the
labor force survey measures of the unemployment remain near record lows. The
twelve-month rate of retail price inflation (excluding mortgage interest payments)
ticked down in May but re mained above the Bank of  England’s 2½ percent
target.  The harmonized index of consumer  prices (HICP) rose 1.2 percent in the
twelve months ending in May.  The twelve-month growth rate of averageearnings slid to 2.6 percent in April.
On June 9, Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown announced that the five
economic conditions for Britain joining th e euro area have not been met.  The
government will reassess the five tests with the release of next year’s budget,
expected in March.  The tests are now to  be reviewed annually in the budget.  In
the meantime, legislation will be introduced  this autumn to enable a referendum
on euro entry, should the tests be met.  Further measures to  promote convergence
will be enacted, including housing market reform and changing the Bank ofEngland’s target inflation rate to the HICP at the time of the Pre-Budget Report,expected in November.  Public opi nion remains strongly against entry.
In Canada, real GDP increased 2.4 percent (s.a.a .r.) in the first quarter as final
domestic demand grew 3.9 pe rcent led by robust growth in consumption and
residential construc tion.  A record increase in th e level of inventories also
provided a substantial boost to activity, with roughly half of the stockpiling
occurring among motor vehicle retailers a nd wholesalers.  Net exports subtracted
from GDP growth, reflecting a decline in exports and strong import growth.  The
data on monthly real GDP indicate that much of the first quarter’s growth
occurred in the beginning of the quarter.
Recent indicators suggest weak growth fo r the second quarter.  Following robust
job growth throughout 2002 and early 2003 th e labor market cooled in April and
May, partially reflecting the impact of  SARS on accommodation and food service
employment in Toronto.  Declining empl oyment, in conjunction with continued
strong labor force growth, increased the unemployment rate to 7.8 percent in
May.  Housing starts declined in both April and May, though they remain at a
level above the historical averag e.  Manufacturing shipments dropped
significantly in April while inventories continued to increase, raising the
inventory-to-shipment ratio to its highest level in 14 months.
In April, the twelve-month rate of head line CPI inflation declined to 3 percent
from 4.3 percent in March, returning to th e top of the Bank of Canada’s 1 to 3
IV-20
percent target band.  The decline in the headline rate largely reflects lower energy
prices.  Twelve-month core inflation, excluding food, en ergy prices, and indirect
taxes, decreased to 2.7 percent in April. 
Canadian Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20011200212002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
GDP 1.4 3.5 3.8 2.7 1.6 2.4
Total domestic demand .8 5.7 10.5 1.5 4.5 6.5
Consumption 2.3 3.8 4.4 1.3 4.4 3.5
Investment 3.4 2.0 1.4 3.2  .1 5.0
Government consumption 3.5 2.8 3.7 4.2 2.4 4.0
Inventories2-1.9 2.3 6.1 -.7 1.4 2.5
Exports -5.4  .7  .5 8.5 -8.7 -5.7
Imports -8.4 6.5 19.3 5.8 -1.4 2.6
Net exports2.8 -2.0 -6.2 1.3 -3.2 -3.3
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
IV-21
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Feb. Mar. Apr. May
GDP by industry 1.0 .5 .7  .3 .0 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production 1.0 -.1 .3  -.4 .0 n.a. n.a.
New mfg. orders .8 -2.5 1.9 2.2 .9 -4.5 n.a.
Retail sales .7 .8 1.8 1.8 -.7 n.a. n.a.
Employment .9 .8 .5 .4 .1 -.1 -.1
Unemployment rate17.6 7.5 7.4 7.4 7.3 7.5 7.8
Consumer prices22.3 3.8 4.5 4.6 4.3 3.0 n.a.
Core Consumer Prices2,32.2 3.0 3.2 3.3 3.1 2.7 n.a.
Consumer attitudes4124.4 121.8 114.3 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence4129.7 136 131.4 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes.4. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-22
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2002 2003
Q3 Q4 Q1 Feb. Mar. Apr.
Japan
Trade 82.2 83.5 73.3 82.9 65.2 80.3
Current account 111.5 102.2 115.7 124.3 122.8 120.9
Euro area
Trade1128.5 106.2 26.5 69.7 26.1 38.7
Current account190.4 98.1 -8.6 41.4 15.5 n.a.
GermanyTrade 136.3 124.3 125.8 130.8 110.6 124.6Current account
142.6 77.4 41.7 56.6 85.2 40.9
FranceTrade 1.8 1.2 .7 1.0 .2 1.2Current account 3.9 4.6 3.9 3.9 2.7 n.a.
Italy
Trade 7.8 5.2 .9 1.6 -1.1 -1.6
Current account
111.5 -15.8 -28.4 -16.3 -19.4 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -54.7 -70.7 -57.7 -50.9 -64.2 -58.3Current Account -6.6 -19.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 37.1 34.7 39.6 36.7 43.1 33.7Current Account 13.6 12.4 21.3 ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-23
IV-24
IV-25
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Economic conditions in the developing world remain weak.  Recent indicators
suggest that growth has continued to slow  in much of developing Asia, with the
negative economic effects of SARS beginning to show up in data throughout the
region, particularly for Hong Kong.  In Latin America, Mexican economicgrowth turned negative in the first quarter, and Brazilian indicators suggest thateconomic activity remains soft.  Th e Venezuelan economy has contracted
sharply as a result of that country’s ong oing political crisis, while Argentina’s
recovery has continued. 
Although the SARS outbreak in China appears to have been largely contained,
the economic effects are just now beginni ng to show through available data. 
Twelve-month growth rates of retail sales and tour ist arrivals both slowed
considerably in April.  Industrial production growth also decreased to a
twelve-month growth rate of just under 14 percent in May from 17 percent in the
first quarter.  Some deceleration was expected, however, as many producers whodrastically increased output in the first quarter to fill orders before the start of theIraq war have since cut back.  Consumer  prices continued to rise slowly on a
twelve-month basis, but month-to-month changes have turned negative again
due to lower oil prices and, possibl y, weaker demand resulting from SARS. 
Lower oil prices helped return the Chinese trade balance to surplus in April, butrapid growth in non-oil imports  narrowed the surplus in May.
Real GDP in Hong Kong fell just over 1 percent (s.a.a .r.) in the first quarter. 
The outbreak of SARS has apparently b een contained.  The categories that were
expected to be hurt most by SARS, personal consumption and tourism, were
both down in the quarter.  In contrast, both exports and imports grew strongly. 
This, coupled with robust trade figures for April, lends support to anecdotalreports that SARS has not significantly  affected merchandise trade.  Other
economic effects of SARS, however, were evident in April.  Retail sales for thatmonth fell, and tourist arrivals plu mmeted.  The unemployment rate rose in
April and May, as SARS-related layoffs began to show up in the data, andconsumer prices fell at a tw elve-month rate of about 2 percent, partly reflecting
the anemic property market and weak er sales of goods due to SARS.
IV-26
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Real GDP17.5 8.0 6.8 16.3 ... ... ...
Industrial production28.9 11.8 14.5 17.0 16.9 14.9 13.7
Consumer prices2-.3 -.4 -.6 .5 .9 1.0 .7
Trade balance323.1 30.3 45.6 -13.1 -2.6 23.8 13.1
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.
3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Real GDP1-1.3 5.2 7.0 -1.2 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.9 7.3 7.2 7.5 7.5 7.8 8.3
Consumer prices3-3.7 -1.6 -2.9 -.9 -2.3 -1.9 n.a.
Trade balance4-11.4 -7.7 -10.2 -6.9 -5.3 -5.0 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Real GDP in Taiwan contracted slightly in the first quarter reflecting declines in
investment spending and sluggish grow th in private consumption.  Exports,
however, were up sharply for that peri od on average.  Since the first quarter
ended, the outbreak of SARS in Taiwan  has worsened considerably, and its
economic effects are now being felt.  Industrial production decreased in April,
and unemployment remained at a high le vel.  Both exports and imports have
fallen sharply since February.  Of most  concern is the reduction in imports of
intermediate goods used in the produc tion of high-tech goods, indicating a
potential further decline in future ex ports.  Twelve-month inflation turned
IV-27
positive in May due to a base month effect, while the month-to-month change
was slightly negative.
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Real GDP1-1.8 4.1 3.7 -.1 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.6 5.2 5.1 5.2 5.2 5.2 n.a.
Industrial production -7.3 6.4 1.1 .0 -2.5 -.6 n.a.
Consumer prices3-1.7 .8 -.5 -.2 -.2 -.1 .3
Trade balance415.6 18.1 19.6 13.5 17.8 18.8 19.2
Current account517.9 25.7 31.4 29.0 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Incoming data for Korea since the last Greenbook have been generally weak. 
GDP fell 1.4 percent at an annual rate in the first quarter, weighed down by a
sizeable decline in consumption and lo w export growth.  Industrial production in
April dropped almost 2 per cent, with the contraction concentrated in the
high-tech sectors.  Consumer and busin ess confidence indicators held steady or
lost ground in May, and recent measures  of retail sales and service-sector
demand have also been anemic.  Consum er prices were up 3.2 percent over the
twelve months ended in May, and the unemployment rate rose to 3.4 percent. 
The trade balance jumped in April as exports climbed and imports dropped off,
in part due to lower oil prices.  Early figures suggest that this improvement in
the trade balance is unlikely to be sust ained in May.  Concerns over weakening
demand led the Korean central bank to lower its target interest rate in May by25 basis points to 4 percent.  The g overnment has also announced a fiscal
stimulus package of roughly ¾ percentage point of GDP for the rest of this year.
IV-28
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Real GDP14.2 7.0 8.3 -1.4 ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.0 7.4 2.7 .5 .6 -1.9 n.a.
Unemployment rate23.8 3.1 3.0 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.4
Consumer prices33.2 3.8 3.4 4.1 4.6 3.8 3.2
Trade balance413.5 14.2 15.5 9.6 -3.8 18.2 n.a.
Current account58.2 6.1 7.9 -6.7 -14.3 -4.6 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In the ASEAN region, data releases since the last Greenbook have generally
pointed to weak economic activity.  In the first quarter, private consumption
contributed negatively to real GDP grow th in Malaysia a nd Singapore but drove
the expansions in Indonesia and Tha iland.  Real GDP in the Philippines
contracted, owing to reduced agricu ltural output.  With the exception of
Malaysia, recent industrial production data for these c ountries suggest a further
slowing in activity so far in the sec ond quarter.  Trade surpluses, however,
widened across the region, pr imarily reflecting rising exports, while inflation
remained benign.
IV-29
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Feb. Mar. Apr.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 1.8 3.8 -.8 5.6 ... ... ...
Malaysia -.9 5.3 1.9 .9 ... ... ...
Philippines 3.6 5.7 10.0 -2.0 ... ... ...
Singapore -6.0 3.0 .4 1.1 ... ... ...
Thailand 2.2 6.4 8.7 6.3 ... ... ...
Industrial production2 
Indonesia3.7 -1.1 1.4 1.0 4.9 -2.6 n.a.
Malaysia -4.1 4.2 -1.0 2.4 8.0 -4.1 8.3
Philippines -5.7 -6.1 2.4 -.7 -2.4 4.4 n.a.Singapore -11.6 8.5 -2.2 3.3 -13.8 11.5 -3.6Thailand 1.3 8.5 2.2 4.3 -2.0 4.6 3.3
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Indonesia 25.4 25.9 23.9 27.6 25.3 27.6 n.a.
Malaysia 14.2 13.4 14.3 19.6 17.7 21.8 n.a.
Philippines -.9 -.2 -.8 -2.1 -1.4 n.a. n.a.
Singapore 5.8 8.7 10.7 16.7 7.8 12.0 14.9
Thailand 2.5 3.5 4.0 5.5 4.1 5.4 n.a.
n.a.  Not available.
IV-30
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20011200212002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Indonesia 12.5 10.0 10.3 7.7 7.1 7.5 6.9
Malaysia 1.2 1.7 1.8 1.3 .7 1.0 1.0
Philippines 4.1 2.6 2.6 2.9 2.9 2.8 2.7
Singapore -.6 .4 .1 .7 .8 .9 n.a.
Thailand .8 1.6 1.4 2.0 1.7 1.6 1.9
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available
In Mexico, data releases since the last Gr eenbook generally point to weakness in
the economy.  Real GDP fell 2 percent (s.a.a.r.) in the first quarter, exports
declined in April, and business conf idence was down in May.  Industrial
production appears to have fared somewhat better, how ever, rising 0.8 percent in
April.  The weakness in exports in April led to a sizeable widening of the trade
deficit in that month.  
The twelve-month rate of consumer pri ce inflation declined in April and May,
probably helped in part by the net appr eciation of the Mexican peso since early
March.  Survey measures of inflation expectations for end-2003 edged down a
bit to 4.1 percent in May, near the top of the central bank’s 2-4 percent target
range.
In Brazil, real GDP in the first quarter was roughly flat after having risen about
3½ percent over the second half of 2002 in the midst of consid erable financial
turmoil.  Data releases since the last  Greenbook suggest that activity continued
to weaken into the second quarter.  Monthly trade surpluses have remained
sizable, reflecting some trade adjustment from the large depreciation of thecurrency in recent years.
The weak economy and the nominal appreciation of the real since March
contributed to a decline in monthly headline consumer price inflation in April
and May.  The twelve-month in flation rate rose neverthe less.  Inflation therefore
remains well above the 8.5 pe rcent “adjusted inflation target” for 2003 that was
set by the central bank last January.  In  consequence, the central bank maintained
its overnight interest rate  at 26.5 percent at its May policy meeting.  Brazilian
asset prices have moved up significan tly in recent weeks.  The improvement
IV-31
most likely reflects invest ors’ approval of the fiscal performance of the Lula
government, including further progress towards pension reform.
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Real GDP1-1.5 2.0 -.1 -2.0 ... ... ...
Overall economic activity -.1 .8 .1 .1 -.5 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production -3.3 -.2 -.4 .2 -1.0 .8 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.5 2.7 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.8 n.a.
Consumer prices3 4.4 5.7 5.3 5.4 5.6 5.2 4.7
Trade balance4-10.0 -7.9 -6.6 -4.4 -6.1 -10.7 n.a.
Imports4168.4 168.7 168.5 169.2 169.7 170.7 n.a.
Exports4158.4 160.8 161.9 164.8 163.5 159.9 n.a.
Current account5-18.0 -13.9 -18.6 -8.6 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , industrial production in May wa s up 16 percent from a year ago,
but it has edged down in the last two months.  Inflation has continued to
decelerate considerably, and the consum er price index fell 0.3 percent in May
from April–the first decline since the pe so’s devaluation in January 2002.  The
peso continued to strength en, and has appreciated near ly 20 percent against the
U.S. dollar since the beginning of the year, amid accumulation of foreign
reserves by the central bank.  Federal tax collection in May increased 48 percentyear-on-year, exceeding expectations.  While Argentina has so far met the fiscaland monetary targets agreed with the IMF, the government is lagging in theimplementation of structural reforms.  President Néstor Kirchner, who took
office in late May, has not yet fully ar ticulated a program that addresses the
country’s fundamental economic problems, including the restructuring of thebanking system and the renegotiation of the country’s defaulted debt.
IV-32
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Real GDP1-.7 3.4 2.9 -.2 ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.6 2.3 1.8 -1.0 -3.3 -.1 n.a.
Unemployment rate212.4 11.7 12.0 11.1 11.1 11.6 n.a.
Consumer prices37.7 12.5 10.615.6 16.6 16.8 17.2
Trade balance42.6 13.1 23.917.0 18.6 20.5 25.5
Current account5-23.2 -7.6 -1.1 0.3 1.4 -11.6 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Break in October 2001 as a result of change in methodology.  Thus, 2001 is
average for Q4 only.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Real GDP1 -10.3 -4.0 3.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -7.6 -10.7 5.8 7.6 1.6 -.8 -1.1
Unemployment rate217.4 19.7 17.8 n.a. ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -1.4 41.0 40.4 35.8 31.7 19.3 14.3
Trade balance47.5 16.7 15.9 15.7 15.6 13.9 n.a.
Current account5-4.5 9.0 8.7 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data are released for May and October only.  Figures for Q4 reflect data
for October.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
IV-33
In Venezuela , real GDP fell 29 percent on a f our-quarter basis in the first
quarter, reflecting a 47 percent decrease in  oil output and a 21 percent decline in
non-oil output.  The decline implies a dr op of 52 percent (s.a.a.r.) from the
previous quarter, according to staff estimate s.  The first quarter result follows a
similarly large drop in real GDP in the fourth quarter of 2002.  Plummeting
economic activity in recent months has been associated with political turmoilthat led to a general strike from December to February.  Activity has also beenweakened by the imposition of capital cont rols last January, which have virtually
halted non-oil related imports and disrupted production in sectors that rely on
imported intermediate goods.  Monthly c onsumer price inflation rose in April
and May, despite the pegging of the curre ncy to the dollar last February; the rise
has been attributed to shortage-induced increases in domestic prices of importedgoods.  Oil production and exports re main below pre-strike levels.
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002 2003
Q4 Q1 Mar. Apr. May
Real GDP1 .9 -16.7 -41.5 -52.4 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.3 15.5 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices312.3 31.2 30.6 35.5 34.1 33.5 35.0
Non-oil trade balance4-12.2 -7.4 -5.5 -2.5 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance49.3 13.9 14.8 12.8 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account53.9 7.7 8.6 7.8 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  For 2002, Q2 is latest reported.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
DIVISION OF RESEARCH AND STATISTICS
Date: June 24, 2003
To: Members of the FOMC
From: Division of Research and Statistics
Subject: Corrected Greenbook Chart
The attached chart shows a corrected version of the long-term unemployment series
that was presented in the lower-right panel of page II-3 from the June Greenbook.

SELECTED UNEMPLOYMENT AND LABOR FORCE PARTICIPATION RATES
(Percent; based on seasonally adjusted data)
2002 2003 2003
2002 Q3 Q4 Ql Mar. Apr. May
Civilian unemployment rate
(16 years and older) 5.8 5.8 5.9 5.8 5.8 6.0 6.1
Teenagers 16.5 16.7 16.1 17.2 17.7 18.0 18.5
20-24 years old 9.7 9.6 9.9 9.2 8.9 10.1 10.5
Men, 25 years and older 4.7 4.7 4.9 4.9 4.9 5.1 5.2
Women, 25 years and older 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.4 4.6 4.7 4.6
Labor force participation rate 66.6 66.6 66.5 66.3 66.2 66.4 66.4
Teenagers 47.4 47.6 46.8 45.2 44.1 45.0 45.1
20-24 years old 76.4 76.6 75.8 75.5 74.8 75.5 76.0
Men, 25 years and older 75.9 76.0 75.6 75.3 75.3 75.6 75.5
Women, 25 years and older 59.4 59.3 59.4 59.6 59.6 59.8 59.7
Labor Force Participation Rate
and Unemployment Rate
Short-term Unemployed
(Less than 5 weeks)
(Percentage of labor force)Long-term Unemployed
(Over 26 weeks)
(Percentage of labor force)Percent
S7.0
-6.5
-6.0
-5.5
-5.0
-4.5
4.0
S3.5
Percent
-1.6
-1.4
ay
-1.2
-1.0
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
0.2
L 0.0Percent
67.4
67.2
67.0
66.8
66.6
66.4
66.2
66.0
