Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 5/20/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                  January 22, 2003
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                     January 22, 2003
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developm ents
Overview 
Economic  activity  appears to ha ve nearly been at a standstill in the  fourth 
quarter, with a sharp drop in motor ve hicle production and re newed shedding  of 
non-auto inventories accounting  for the d eceleration in output from the previous 
quart er. As yet, however, t here are few si gns that this weakness i s cum ulating. 
Final sales ex cluding  motor vehicles in creased in the fourth quarter, led by 
spending  by the household sector. Retail sales rose at a moderate pace in 
November and December, and housing  starts climbed further. However, the 
business sector remained stag nant: Purchases of equipment  and soft ware seem 
to have been flat last quarter, and sp ending  on nonresidential structures likely 
fell ag ain. Moreover, pay rolls declined in  the last two months of the y ear, and 
the unemploy ment rate increased to 6.0 per cent. In part because of continued 
economic slack, core consumer price infl ation declined throug h the end of 2002. 
Labor Mark et Devel opments 
The labor market was anemic at y ear-end. Employ ment on private nonfarm 
payrolls fell 115,000 in December after a downward-revised drop of similar siz e 
in November. Private pay rolls now sta nd at their lowest level since September 
1999. The December decline in employ ment, combined with a 0.1 hour 
reduction in the averag e workweek, to  34.1 hours, resulted in a 0.2 percent 
decrease in the ag gregate hours of production or nonsupervisory  workers.1 
Aggregate hours during  the fourth quarter matched the averag e level in the third 
quarter. 
Manufacturing  employ ment fell 65,000 in December; job losses were 
widespread, and the one-month diffusi on index  of manufacturing  payrolls 
dropped to 37.5, its lowest level in a y ear.2 In the related help-supply  industry , 
employ ment recovered part of its November drop. Employment in retail trade 
declined 104,000 in December, althoug h the B LS attributed some of this decline 
to subpar hiring  for the holiday  seas on, which sug gests that employ ment may 
rebound in J anuary  (on a seasonally  adjusted  basis), as firms have fewer workers 
to lay  off. The only  bright spots in last month’s employ ment report were the 
1. The manufacturing workweek rose 0.3 h our in Decem ber, to 40.9 h ours, but part of  this 
increas e apparen tly was due to a ris e in overtim e hours during the survey reference period at 
furniture manufacturers in the Sou theast attem pting to m ake up for tim e lost becau se of a winter 
storm earlier in  the month. 
2. The diffusion index is the percen tage of industries with an increas e in employment plus 
one-half of the percen tage of industries with unchanged em ployment; an index of 50 indicates an 
equal balan ce betw een industries with increas ing and decreas ing employment. 
II-2
II-3
II-4
service industry  apart from help supply (where employ ment rose 54,000) and the 
finance, insurance, and real esta te industry  (which added 8,000 jobs).3 
In the household survey , the unemploy ment rate remained at 6.0 percent in 
December after a 0.3 percentag e point rise  in November. We had been puz zled 
about the absence of a rise in unemploy ment over the summer and early  fall, and 
the recent  increase bri ngs the unem ployment rate back i n line wi th our 
interpretation of  the payroll data and other labor market indicators. The labor 
force participation rate dropped ag ain in December, perhaps because workers 
discourag ed by  bleak employ ment prospects deci ded t o leave t he job m arket; for 
the fourth quarter the pa rticipation rate averag ed 66.5 percent, down nearly 
1/2 percentag e point from a y ear earlier.  Meanwhile, the number of long -term 
unem ployed rose, and t he num ber of recent  job losers rem ained at  an el evated 
level, indic ating continuing  difficulties for job se ekers and a high rate of layoffs. 
Recent data on initial claims for unemp loyment insurance do not sug gest much 
chang e in the tenor of the labor market  in January . Adjusted using  seasonal 
factors calculated without data from the post-September 2001 period, the four-
week moving  averag e of initial cla ims was 385,000 in the week ended J anuary 
11, at the low end of the rang e it has occupied since the end of November.4 The 
four-week moving  averag e of insured une mploy ment, adjuste d using  alternative 
seasonal factors, stood at 3.43 million in th e week ended J anuary  4, a level down 
from the previous month. In the week ended December 28, 804,000 individuals 
were recei ving TEUC  benefi ts.5 
3. During the Jan uary survey period, 17,500 G E employees (members of the International 
Union of Electron ic Workers/Communication s Workers of America) s truck for two day s to 
protes t plan ned increas es in the em ployee cos t of health  benefits. Because these em ployees 
worked for part of the week, they will still ap pear o n payrolls for the week. The loss of hours is 
small an d should not be apparent in the aggregate statistics. 
4. The four-week moving average was held dow n by a sharp drop in  claim s during the week 
ended January 11. Because o f difficulties w ith seaso nal ad justment, claim s are unusually  volatile 
in the Decem ber-January period. 
For published claims, the four-week moving average was 388,000 i n the week ended Jan uary 
11. Seasonal adjustment of the claims data in October an d November was distorted by the 
inclusion of the sharp increas e in claims after the events of September 11, 2001, i n the 
calcu lation  of the current seasonal factors . However, seasonal factors  calcu lated w ithout pos t-
Septem ber 2001 data are g enerally quite clos e to the official s easonal factors  from Decem ber 
onward. 
5. On January 8, the Congress passed legislation extending the TEUC program, which had 
expired at th e end of Decem ber. Individuals who exhaust their reg ular unemployment ben efits 
by May  31, 2003, w ill be elig ible f or up to th irteen  weeks of federal ben efits. Accordin g to ou r 
contacts at the Employment and Training A dministration, which manages the TEUC program, 
the tem porary expiration of the program did not resu lt in any disruption of benefits for current 
recipien ts. 
II-5
Othe r indic ators also imply  that the labor market remains we ak. Both the 
Conference Board and Mi chigan survey s reg istered a sm all deterioration in 
employ ment ex pectations in December and, according  to the preliminary  report 
of the Michig an survey , expectations remained unchang ed in J anuary . In 
addition, the g ap between the proportion of individuals finding  jobs hard to g et 
and the proportion finding  jobs plentiful increased last month. Althoug h lay off 
announcements as tracked by  the outplacement firm Challeng er, Gray  and 
Christmas, Inc., decl ined subst antially in Decem ber, t he fourt h-quart er averag e 
was still above levels in the spri ng and summer. Moreover, lay off 
announcements as tracked by  FRB staff ar e rising  so far in J anuary . Firms 
responding  to the National F ederation of Independent B usinesses survey  of small 
businesses report ed an upt ick in hiring plans in Decem ber; however, t his 
measure is quite  vola tile, and the  current level is not f ar remove d from lows 
reached in 2001 and 2002. 
Indust rial P roduc tion 
Industrial production, pushed down by  a sharp drop in motor vehicle assemblies 
and a decline in electricity  generati on, decreased 0.2 percent in December. 
Excluding  motor vehicles and parts, ma nufacturing  output rose 0.2 percent after 
having  fallen about one-qua rter percent in each of the previous two months. 
Mining  production, supported by  a surg e in oil and g as drilling , increased 
1.6 percent. 
Output of hig h-tech g oods g ained 0.5 percent in December and was up 
4.1 percent (annual rate) in the fourth quarter, a smaller increase than the 
7-1/2 percent rise in the third quarter . A sharp deceleration in semiconductor 
production more than accounted for the re duced rate of increase in hig h-tech 
output.6 The production of computers and pe ripheral equipment rose 1.2 percent 
in December and was up at an annual rate  of nearly  20 percent in the fourth 
quarter. Roug hly offsetting  this increase was a further 16 percent (annual rate) 
drop in the output of communications equipment. 
Turning to tr anspor tation e quipme nt, motor  vehicle assemblie s tumble d 
1 million units (annual rate) in December,  and related parts production declined 
as wel l. Commercial aircraft  output in Decem ber was 36 percent  below its level 
a year earlier. Althoug h Boeing  has completed the downshift in production 
announced in the wake of September 11, 2001, it is ex pected to make moderate 
further cut s in out put this year. The com pany  disclosed recent ly that 75 pl ane 
orders were cancelled last y ear, a sig nificant fraction of the 251 new orders it 
6. Although t he production of microprocessors has been relatively weak of late, Intel expects 
its revenue to increase at a respectable seasonally adjusted annua l rate of 8-1/2 percent in the 
current quarter. 
II-6
II-7
II-8
had booked in 2002. In contrast, the output of military  aircraft and equipment 
continues to rise. 
In manufacturing  outside hig h-tech a nd transportation, i ndustrial production 
increased in December for the first time since Aug ust. Refinery  output picked 
up substantially ; production disruptions on the Gulf Coast following  a shutoff of 
supply  from Venez uela were apparently more than offset by  production g ains 
elsewhere. The production of consum er goods and the output of business 
equipment were flat in December after earlier declines. Increases in tex tiles, 
paper, and chemicals pus hed up materials production. 
Indicators of future conditions have been mix ed but on the whole point to 
slightly firmer activity  in coming  months. The diffusion index  of new orders 
from the I nstitute of Supply  Manag ement (ISM) leaped to 63.3 in December 
after having  hovered around 50 since J uly. A jump in this index  in late 2001 
preceded a pickup in output in the firs t half of 2002. The reg ional diffusion 
index es of new orders, so me of which now ex tend th rough January , also appear 
to have improved recently . However, real  adjusted orders for durable g oods in 
November were down 0.9 percent from the level three months earlier, and the 
three-month I P diffusion index  impr oved a little in December but remained 
below 50. 
New  Orders for Du rable Good s 
(Percent chang e from  preceding  period ex cept as noted; seasonally  adjusted) 
Com ponent Share, 
2001: 
H1 
(percent) 2002 
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov. 
Total orders 100.0 -.4 2.9 -4.6 1.7 -1.5 
Adjusted orders1 76.2 .7 1.4 -3.6 4.8 -2.4 
Com puters -5.0 9.9 9.2 -3.3 -3.3 
Com munication equipm ent 4.1 -3.3 -21.2 -42.3 74.6 4.3 
Other capital g oods 24.5 2.4 1.1 -2.1 2.3 -3.3 
Other2 43.1 .5 2.4 -3.1 4.4 -2.2 
MEMO 
Real adj usted orders  . . . 1.0 1.8 -3.5 5.0 -2.3 
Excluding  high tech  . . . 1.0 1.5 -4.3 4.0 -2.4 4.5 
1. Orders excluding defense capi tal goods , nondefense aircraf t, and motor vehicle part s. 
2. Primary metals, most fabricated m etals, most stone, clay , and glass produ cts, 
household appl iances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods . 
. . . Not applicable. 
II-9
II-10
II-11
In the semiannual I SM survey  released in December, the number of purchasing 
managers indic ating that their compa nies plan to inc rease capital expenditur es in 
2003 ex ceeded the number indicating  a planned decrease; a diffusion index  of 
these responses correlates well with  annual chang es in manufacturing 
investment. Together with low operatin g rate (73.6 percent in December), the 
index suggests tha t manufacturing inve stme nt will inc rease mode stly this y ear, 
imply ing an ex pansion of manufact uring  capacity  in 2003 of only  about 
1-1/2 percent . This pace woul d represent  an accel eration from  last year’s 
increase of roughly 1 pe rcent but would still be  one of the smallest inc reases in 
the post-W orld W ar II period. 
Motor Veh icles 
Following  two lackluster months, purchases  of lig ht vehicles, buoy ed by  another 
run-up in customer incentives, surg ed in December to an annual rate of 
18.2 million units. Confidential data from th e major firms indicate that sales to 
consumers accounted for most of last m onth’s increase, althoug h fleet sales to 
businesses al so rose. Nearl y all of the Decem ber sal es gain went  to General 
Motors and F ord, and last y ear was th e second consecutive y ear that GM used 
price incent ives to generat e small increases i n its market share aft er several 
decades of decl ine. For t he fourt h quart er as a whol e, light vehi cle sales were 
16.5 million units at an annual rate, down from the robust third-quarter pace but 
a touch above the averag e level of sa les in the first half of the y ear. 
Accordi ng to J.D. P ower and Associ ates, m anufact urers have cut  back t he 
averag e level of cust omer incent ives per vehi cle over t he first two weeks of 
January  from December’s elevated leve l. Althoug h industry  sources say 
confi dentially that they expect som e payback of sal es from  the torrid Decem ber 
pace, they  still anticipate that remain ing incentives will support sales of about 
16 million units in J anuary. 
Total production of motor vehicles  fell in December to 11.9 million units 
(annual rate) and averag ed 12.4 million units for the fourth quarter as a whole, 
sharply  off the third-quarter pace. Lower production and strong er sales in 
December pushed lig ht vehicle stocks  down to 2.7 million units at y ear-end. 
Based on averag e sales in the fourth quart er, this inventory  represented 63 day s’ 
supply , in line with manufacturers’ targ eted rang e. In January , assemblies are 
scheduled to move up to a 12.6 million unit rate, and week ly production data 
throug h the first three weeks of the month are consistent with this pace. For the 
first quarter as a whole, schedules call for production of 12.4 million units; at 
II-12
II-13
this r ate, sales would ne ed to be  simila r to the ir level in the  fourth qua rter to 
avoid an inventory  buildup.7 
Produc tion of D omestic Autos and Tr ucks 
(Millions of units at an annual rate except as noted; FR B seasonal basis) 
Item 2002 2002 2003 
H1 Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan.1 
U.S. production 12.3 13.0 12.4 12.2 12.9 11.9 12.6 
Autos  5.2  5.1  4.9  4.8  5.2  4.6  5.0 
Trucks  7.1  7.8  7.5  7.4  7.8  7.3  7.6 
Total day s’ supply2 61.3 56.1 63.1 69.2 71.9 56.7  n.a. 
Inventories3 2.61 2.62 2.70 2.79 2.94 2.73 n.a. 
Note. C omponents may not sum to totals  becau se of rounding. 
1. Produc tion ra tes reflect Ward’s C ommuni cations’ l atest estimates for Ja nuary. 
2. Se miannua l and qua rterly figures calculated usi ng end-of-pe riod st ocks and average reported 
sales. 
3. End-of-pe riod st ocks; excludes medium a nd he avy trucks (c lasses 3-8). 
n.a. Not availab le. 
Consum er Spending 
Consumer spending , with a substantial boost from purchases of motor vehicles, 
appears to have advanced at a bris k pace in the last two months of 2002. 
Outside m otor vehi cles, recent  gains have been m ore m odest . Nom inal 
spendi ng in the ret ail cont rol category—whi ch excludes aut o deal ers and 
building  material and supply  stores—increased 0.3 percent in both November 
and December. Althoug h December data on outlay s for services are not y et 
available, we estimate that real personal consumption e xpenditur es excluding 
motor vehicles rose at an annual rate of roug hly 2-3/4 percent for the fourth 
quarter as a whole. 
Real disposable personal income incr eased 0.3 percent in November, and the 
October chang e was revised up to 0.2 percen t. These g ains owe, in part, to a 
continued rise in wag es and salaries despite the weak g rowth in hours worked; 
this pattern is consi stent with the sol id, if unspect acular, recent  increases i n real 
hourly  earning s. 
The personal saving  rate ha s remained above 4 percen t in recent months, and it 
averag ed close to 3-3/4 percent for 2002 as a whole. The marked increase in 
7. In the past tw elve years, actu al total m otor vehicle p roduction in the first quarter h as 
averaged 5 percen t below  scheduled as semblies. 
II-14
II-15
II-16
saving relative to the roug hly 2-1/2 percent  averag e savi ng rate of the precedi ng 
two y ears is likely  a response by  house holds to the erosion in household net 
worth. The rise in equity  values over the fourth qua rter will pr obably lead the 
ratio of household net worth to disposable income to move up for the first time 
in a y ear. 
According to the  prelimina ry report, the  Michigan Sur vey Research Centers 
index of consume r sentime nt move d down in e arly January, mor e than reversing 
its Decem ber increase. Both the Mi chigan and C onference Board i ndex es have 
shown only  modest improveme nts, on balance, since their lows in October. 
Housing Mark ets 
Constr uction a nd sa les of sing le-family home s remained strong late last year, 
with continued support from ve ry low mortg age rates. Single-fam ily starts rose 
in Decem ber to an annual rate of 1. 47 m illion units.  The large backlog of 
unused perm its and a ratio of starts to pe rmits (adjusted for starts that occurred 
in areas where perm its are not require d) that is only slightly above the 
historical average suggest that starts  are likely to rem ain quite strong in 
coming m onths.  For the fourth quarter as  a whole,  starts were up at an annual 
rate of 25 percent from  the third quarter  and were 12-1/2 percent higher than a 
year earlier. 
New hom e sales rose 5. 7 percent in Novem ber, to an annual rate of 
1.07 m illion units , the lates t in a recent s uccession of record highs . The year-
over-year rates  of change in the average and m edian prices  for new  hom es 
were 5-3/4 percent and -1/2 percent, respectively,  in Novem ber, bringing both 
price changes toward the lower end of their ranges in 2002.  Existing hom e 
sales decreas ed a bit in N ovem ber to 5. 56 m illion units , but that level s till 
exceeded any figure recorded prior to la st year.  Year-over-year increas es in 
the average and m edian prices  for exis ting hom es picked up to 11-1/4 percent 
and 9-3/4 percent,  respectively,  in N ovem ber—the fastest rates seen in 2002. 
Neither thes e price m easures nor the ones  for new  hom es adjus t for s hifts in 
the characteris tics of the units  sold. For t he third quart er (the m ost recent  data 
available), the quality -adjusted new home price increase over the preceding  year 
was 3.8 percent—about the middle of its hi gh rang e over the past four y ears. 
Further moderation in repeat -sales pri ces for ex isting hom es reduced t he rat e of 
increase t o the lower part  of its elevated rang e over t he sam e period. 
Among m ore current indicators of  housing dem and, the num ber of 
applications for m ortgages associated  with hom e purchases is only a touch 
below  the record high reached las t summer. Moreover,  in early J anuary the 
Michigan Survey’s m easure of household attitudes toward hom ebuying 
II-17
II-18
II-19
remained at one of the highest levels in the pas t three years , with a s izable 
proportion of respondents m entioning low mortgage rates as a contributory 
factor.  In addition,  according to the National A ssociation of H ome Builders , 
builders’ ratings of current new hom e sales m oved up in January to the highest 
level in three years . 
In the multifamily  sector, housing  starts  increased 5.5 percent in December, to 
an annual rate of 362,000 units. Although perm it issuance jum ped about 
30 percent last m onth to a level far a bove that of starts,  perm it cancellations 
were also unusually high,  leaving the backlog of unused perm its unchanged. 
Notwithstanding the D ecem ber increas e, multif amily home building  in the 
fourt h quart er as a whol e was bel ow the averag e pace seen duri ng the past  few 
years. Market conditions for multifamily  housing  have deteri orated sig nificantly 
during  the past y ear, as vacancy rates  have increas ed, rents  have fallen,  and 
property values have stagnated. 
Equipm ent and Soft ware 
Real outlay s for equipment and software appear to have move d sideway s in the 
fourth quarter of last y ear. Business purchases of motor vehicles fell a g ood bit 
in the fourth quarter, while aircraft sp ending  increased. Spending  aside from 
transportation equipment seems to have been about unchang ed, consistent with 
the “wait-and-see” attitude toward new projects widely  reported by  firms. 
Indeed, investment still looks weaker th an would be predicted by  the recent 
pattern of business output, real corporate cash flow, and the user cost of capital. 
In the hig h-tech sector, nominal ship ments of computing  equipment dropped 
2.8 percent in November (not at an annual rate), partia lly reversing  the 
5.3 percent run-up posted in October. Yet, with computer prices falling  at an 
annual rate of about 20 per cent in the fourth quarter, real computer spending  is 
on track for a double-dig it gain. Nominal shipments of communications 
equipment bucked their prolong ed downward trend by  rising  nearly  7 percent in 
Novem ber. However, t he decl ines in precedi ng months sug gest that real 
communications spending  fell last quarter . Real spending  on software appears 
to have been up sl ightly in the fourt h quart er, accordi ng to the revenue report s 
now available from some of the major software vendors. 
Outside  the high-tech sector, a fallback in shipme nts in Nove mber more than 
reversed October’s modest increase and left Nove mber’s level of shipments 
slightly below the  third-quarter average. Most of the November decline was 
attributable to a pronounced drop in the eng ines and turbines categ ory. 
The latest data on orders were also subdued. As of November, the level of new 
orders for non-defense capital g oods wa s still running  below the level of 
II-20
II-21
II-22
II-23
shipments. New orders ex cluding  the hi gh-tech sector subsided in November, 
led by  declines in industrial machin ery and in eng ines and turbines. 
Business demand for lig ht motor vehi cles appears to have improved in 
Decem ber (accordi ng to confi dential inform ation from  the m ajor aut o 
producers), following  substantial weakne ss earlier in the  quarter. Fleet sales 
were more than 30 percent hig her in  2002 than in 2001, but still below the pace 
in 2000. Sales of medium and heavy  trucks fell ag ain in December, as the 
inventory  of eng ines produced under pre- October emissions regulations has now 
run off.8 
Nonresidential Con struction 
Data on const ruction put  in place in Oct ober and Novem ber imply that real 
outlay s for nonresidential construction pos ted a much smaller decline than the 
third quarter’s 21 percent (annual rate) decrease. In particular,  average 
spending in October and Novem ber in the “other com mercial” s ector,  which 
includes retail space and warehouses,  was just 1 percent lower (at an annual 
rate) than in the third quarter follo wing a drop of 27 percent between the 
second and third quarters.  However, the weak perform ance of property values 
and rents through at least the third quarter  (the latest data available) suggests 
the likelihood of renewed deterioration.  Average expenditures for institutional 
construction in October and Novem ber rebounded at nearly a 35 percent rate 
from  their third-quarter average,  more than revers ing a 12 percent decreas e in 
the third quarter. 
At the same time, spending  in both the office and industrial sectors has 
continued to drop sharply . Outlay s for construction of office building s were 
30 percent (annual rate ) lower in October  and N ovem ber, on average,  than in 
the third quarter.  The vacancy rate fo r office buildings  reached 16. 5 percent in 
the fourth quarter—the highest level since early 1994.  Spending on industrial 
structures was 33 percent (annual rate) lower in October and Novem ber than 
in the third quarter.  Real expenditure s for industrial structures in Novem ber 
were the lowest on record,  which dates back to January 1964.  The vacancy 
rate for industrial buildings edged up to  a record 11. 2 percent in the fourth 
quarter,  although increases in the ra te have continued to taper off. 
Inventories 
The book value of manufacturing  and tr ade inventories ex cluding  motor 
vehicles dropped sharply  in October and was essentially  unchang ed in 
8. New and more strict EPA emissions regulations fo r heavy truck engines went into effect 
on Octo ber 1. However, purchasers can  still tak e delivery of trucks fitted with engines produced 
prior to Octo ber 1, which likely prevented a steep er declin e in sales in  Octo ber and November. 
II-24
II-25
II-26
II-27
November. Manufacturers ran off stoc ks in both months, while wholesale 
inventories outside the motor vehicle s ector posted a larg e decline in October 
and then were stable in November. A rise in retail inventor ies ex cluding  motor 
vehicles in November more than reversed  the October decline. With only  small 
gains in sales and shipments in the October-November period, book value 
inventory -sales ratios have  been g enerally  flat. 
The staff' s flow-of-g oods sy stem, which measures stocks wherever held and 
values them at factory -gate prices, sug gests that the day s’ supply  of inventories 
dropped in November and December afte r moving  up earlier. Most of the 
volatility in this se ries has been in stoc ks of  motor  vehicles and pa rts, whic h fell 
sharpl y with the run-up i n light vehi cle sales in Decem ber. Excluding motor 
vehicles and parts, day s’ supply  has ed ged down over the past few months, with 
only scattered imbalances evident across industries. 
Federal Govern ment 
The twelve-month federal unified budg et deficit continued to edg e up in 
November and December, as receipts re mained weak and non-interest outlay s 
were st rong. However, bot h the weakness in recei pts and t he strength in out lays 
show some sig ns of moderating . Meanwhile, the Cong ress renewed the 
extended unemploy ment benef its prog ram and returned to work on fiscal y ear 
2003 appropriations. 
Receipts in Novem ber and Decem ber averag ed 4 percent  below their level a 
year earl ier, as t he effect  of tax reduct ions enact ed in the past  two years 
continued to outweig h the influence of hi gher incomes. Daily  data for J anuary 
suggest that individual nonwithheld coll ections continue to run below y ear-
earlier levels, consiste nt with me ager year-end capital gains distr ibutions 
reported by  mutual fund companies.9 Outla ys increased mor e slowly  in 
November and December than earlier in th e year, with non-interest spending  up 
7-1/2 percent on a y ear-over-y ear basi s compared with the double-dig it pace 
registered previously . A decelerati on in nondefense discretionary  spending 
accounts for much of this slowdown, a reflec tion in part of the lack of reg ular 
appropriations for fiscal 2003. 
The C ongress enact ed a fi ve-m onth renewal of the ex tended unemploy ment 
benefits prog ram, which o ffers up to thir teen additional weeks of benefits for 
individuals who have ex hausted benefits provided under state prog rams. If the 
Cong ress doe s not r enew the  program again, ne w enrollme nts for these benefits 
9. Because the vast majority of mutual fund distributions go to tax -favored accou nts, such as 
IRAs, the distributions accou nt for only abou t 5 percen t of taxable capital g ains realization s. 
Nonetheless, w e have found that these d istributions help to predict tax able realizatio ns. 
II-28
II-29
will be  cut off after May, but those  who a re already enrolled at the end of  May 
can cont inue t o recei ve ex tended be nefits throug h the end of Aug ust. 
The Senate and House  leadership ha ve targeted getting all thir teen disc retiona ry 
appropriations bills for fiscal 2003 under a $751 billion cap on budg et authority . 
Only  the defense and milita ry constr uction bills ha ve passed so f ar, leaving 
$385 billion for the eleven unfinished b ills. The Senate has rolled these 
remaining  bills tog ether into a n omnibus bill, while  the House  has passed a 
place-holder bill lacking  specific funding  levels. The final level and distribution 
of funding  will be resolved in conference. 
In advance of its F ebruary  3 release of the fiscal 2004 budg et, the 
Administration has proposed a broad pack age of tax  reductions. The packag e 
would accelerate the implementation of  tax cuts passed in 2001, including 
marginal rate cuts, ma rriage penalty relief, and an inc rease in the  child ta x 
credit; it would also reform the tax  code to ensure that each dollar of corporate 
incom e that had al ready  been t axed at the corporate level would not be tax ed 
further at the individua l level. The Administr ation e stimates that the bill would 
lower revenues by  $670 billion over the fiscal 2003-2013 period, with roug hly a 
$100 billion drop in tax  liability  for calendar 2003. 
State an d Local Govern ments 
Recent  indicators sug gest that spendi ng by state and l ocal governm ents 
increased slowly  in the fourth quarter . Employ ment g ains averag ed 16,000 per 
month during  the quarter—a bit above the averag e pace of the prior six  months, 
but we ll below the  increases reported the y ear before. Real construction 
spending  in October and November averag ed 0.7 percent (not at an annual rate) 
above the third-quarter leve l. Most of the increase was in building  of schools; 
outlay s for hig hway  construction were  below the third-quart er averag e. 
With new g overnors assuming  office in near ly half of the states and forty -four 
state leg islatures convening , state g overnments will beg in in earnest this month 
to close fiscal 2003 budg et gaps and prepare fiscal 2004 budg ets.10 Most states 
estimate that without further budg etary  actions, spending  will surpass resources 
(recei pts plus previ ous y ear surpl uses)  both this year and nex t. Correct ive 
measures will like ly include both r eal restraint—inc luding  program cuts, 
employ ee lay offs, and tax  increases—and financial maneuvers  such as fund 
transfers or debt financing  that do not affect current tax es or spending . For 
example, officials in some  states intend to tap rema ining  rainy  day funds (which 
currently  hold about $10 billion nationw ide) and other reserve accounts; 
10. F iscal 2004 beg ins on July 1 for most states. 
II-30

II-31
California and New York have proposed issuing  new debt backed by  future 
payments from the tobacco settlement. 
Prices and Labor  Costs 
Prices of consumer g oods and services other than food and energ y continued to 
decelerate throug h the end of last y ear. The core CP I rose 1.9 percent over the 
twelve months of 2002, compared with an increase of 2.7 percent the previous 
year. Core PCE prices appear to have  risen 1.6 percent over the twelve months 
of 2002, a touch less than in the previous  year (the official estimate will be 
released J anuary  31). However, overall c onsumer prices rose sig nificantly  more 
rapidly  in 2002 than in 2001, with the boost stemming  from a marked run-up in 
energ y prices fol lowing a sharp decl ine in the previ ous y ear. Prices of 
petroleum products spiked upward ag ain at year-end, larg ely reflecting  supply 
disruptions in Venez uela. 
Prices for items other than food and ener gy increased a bit more slowly  as 2002 
drew to a close. The core CPI  rose 0.1 percent in December, a touch below the 
increases of the preceding  couple of months. Prices for core commodities 
slipped 0.3 percent in December after a d ecline in November of the same siz e; 
the twelve-month decline for this compone nt was 1.5 percent, compared with a 
very small decl ine in the previ ous y ear. Much of t he recent  softness i n core 
commodity  prices reflects drops in the prices of apparel and used cars and 
trucks, as well as some weakenin g in prices for new vehicles.11 However, prices 
of other commodities also declined in  December, in line with widespread 
reports of y ear-end discountin g by merchants. Prices for core services increased 
0.2 percent in December and 3.4 percent for the y ear, down from a 4.0 percent 
rise in 2001. 
The CP I for energ y fell 0.4 percent in  December, as retailers apparently 
absorbed much of the run-up in prices for crude oil. However, survey  data 
throug h mid-J anuary  suggest that retail energ y prices have picked up, imply ing 
that margins are recovering to mor e typical levels. Spot prices  of natural g as are 
also up this month, as unusually  cold weather and hig h prices for heavy  fuel oil 
have raised household and industrial demand, reducing  inventor ies to a level 
1 percent below the seasonal norm. Food prices rose 0.3 percent in December 
after a simila r rise in the  previous month; the  weakness in pr ices for livestock 
11. T he automakers’ incentive prog rams likely affected prices  for both  new and used 
vehicles. The CPI for new vehicles does not directly include financing incentives. However, 
consumers typically  are g iven the option  to receiv e a cas h rebate in  lieu of the financing 
incentives, and in such cases, the BLS incorporates  the effect of  the cas h rebate in to the CPI 
regardless o f which altern ative the consumer ch ooses. Because used cars are su bstitutes for new 
cars, the declin e in new car prices  likely pushed dow n prices  of used cars  as well. 
II-32
II-33
II-34
products that helped hold down food prices throug h last summer appears to have 
run its course, as evidenced by  the r ecent surg e in the spot price for cattle. 
Prices for capi tal equi pment, as m easur ed in the producer price index , fell 
0.4 percent in December after a marked  increase in October and a moderate 
decline in November. Substantial month- to-month swing s in prices of cars and 
light trucks have accounted for much of  the recent see-saw movement in this 
categ ory. For the y ear, capital equi pment prices declined 0.9 percent. 
Prices at earlier stag es of processing  have generally  been increasing . Althoug h 
the PPI  for intermediate materials ot her than food and energ y edged down 
0.1 percent in December, prices were  up 1.6 percent over the most recent 
twelve-month period, compared with a 1.6 percent decline posted in the 
previous y ear. The P PI for core crude  materials rose 0.2 percent in December, 
and over the twelve months of 2002, thes e prices were up 12.4 percent. Broad-
based spot industrial index es such as the Commodity  Research B ureau index 
and the J ournal of Commerce industria l index  have moved up since the last 
Greenbook. Over the course of 2002, th ese commodity  index es retraced the 
declines seen i n the precedi ng year. 
Near-term inf lation e xpectations f rom th e Michig an survey  continued to drift 
down throug h early  January . Median ex pected inflation for t he nex t twelve 
months was 2.4 percent in the first part of January , at the low end of the rang e 
seen si nce l ast spring. Medi an ex pectations of inflation over the nex t five to ten 
years held near the 2-3/4 mark that was the norm for most of last y ear. 
Since the last Greenbook, we have recei ved little new inform ation about labor 
costs. Averag e hourly  earning s of production or nonsupervisory  workers on 
private nonfarm pay rolls rose 0.3 percen t in December after having  increased 
0.2 percent in November. Over the twelve months of 2002, averag e hourly 
earning s rose 3.0 percent, a substantial deceleration from the 3.8 percent rate of 
increase post ed for t he previ ous y ear. 
II-35
II-36
II-37
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1 
Selected Financial Market Quotations 
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted) 
Change to Jan. 21 from 
2000 2001 2002 2003 selected dates (percentage points) 
Instrument 2000 2001 2002 
June 26 Sept. 10 Dec. 9 Jan. 21 June 26 Sept. 10 Dec. 9 
Short-term 
FOMC intended federal funds rate 6.50 3.50 1.25 1.25 -5.25 -2.25 .00 
Treasury bills 1 
3-month 5.66 3.19 1.21 1.17 -4.49 -2.02 -.04 
6-month 5.94 3.13 1.26 1.20 -4.74 -1.93 -.06 
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates) 
1-month 6.56 3.42 1.31 1.27 -5.29 -2.15 -.04 
3-month 6.56 3.24 1.33 1.25 -5.31 -1.99 -.08 
Large negotiable CDs 1 
1-month 6.64 3.46 1.36 1.28 -5.36 -2.18 -.08 
3-month 6.73 3.26 1.34 1.28 -5.45 -1.98 -.06 
6-month 6.89 3.24 1.36 1.29 -5.60 -1.95 -.07 
Eurodollar deposits 2 
1-month 6.63 3.41 1.36 1.28 -5.35 -2.13 -.08 
3-month 6.69 3.26 1.35 1.28 -5.41 -1.98 -.07 
Bank prime rate 9.50 6.50 4.25 4.25 -5.25 -2.25 .00 
Intermediate- and long-term 
U.S. Treasury3 
2-year 6.54 3.59 1.90 1.70 -4.84 -1.89 -.20 
10-year 6.35 5.14 4.35 4.26 -2.09 -.88 -.09 
30-year 6.22 5.55 5.15 5.10 -1.12 -.45 -.05 
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 4.09 3.26 2.46 2.21 -1.88 -1.05 -.25 
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 4 5.99 5.25 5.24 5.20 -.79 -.05 -.04 
Private instruments 
10-year swap 7.38 5.62 4.51 4.45 -2.93 -1.17 -.06 
10-year FNMA 7.15 5.64 4.58 4.48 -2.67 -1.16 -.10 
10-year AA 5 7.64 6.30 5.40 5.23 -2.41 -1.07 -.17 
10-year BBB 5 8.40 7.11 6.94 6.63 -1.77 -.48 -.31 
High-yield 6 12.30 12.72 12.45 11.42 -.88 -1.30 -1.03 
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 7 
30-year fixed 8.14 6.89 6.19 5.97 -2.17 -.92 -.22 
1-year adjustable 7.22 5.64 4.21 4.03 -3.19 -1.61 -.18 
Change to Jan. 21 
Record high 2001 2002 2003 from selected dates (percent) 
Stock exchange index Record 2001 2002 
Level Date Sept. 10 Dec. 9 Jan. 21 high Sept. 10 Dec. 9 
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 9,606 8,473 8,443 -27.98 -12.10 -.36 
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 1,093 892 888 -41.89 -18.76 -.49 
Nasdaq (OTC) 5,049 3-10-00 1,695 1,367 1,364 -72.98 -19.53 -.21 
Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 441 386 383 -36.78 -13.06 -.81 
Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 10,104 8,438 8,400 -43.05 -16.86 -.45 
1. Secondary market. 
2. Bid rates for eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time. 
3. Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities. 
4. Most recent Thursday quote. 
5. Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data. 
6. Merrill Lynch Master II high-yield bond. 
7. For week ending Friday previous to date shown. 
_______________________________________________________________________ 
NOTES: 
June 26, 2000, is the day before the FOMC meeting that ended the most recent period of policy tightening.
September 10, 2001, is the day before the terrorist attacks.
December 9, 2002, is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting.
_______________________________________________________________________ 
BA:DAM 
Selected Interest Rates
Expected Federal Funds Rates Estimated from 
Financial Futures Percent 
4.0 
January 21, 2003 December 9, 2002 3.5 
3.0 
2.5 
2.0 
1.5 
Jan. May Oct. Mar. Aug. Jan. 
2003 2004 2005 
Note. Estimates from federal funds and eurodollar futures rates with 
an allowance for term premia and other adjustments. 
Short-Term Interest Rates Treasury Yield Curve 
Percent 
5 
January 21, 2003 
December 9, 2002 
4 
3 
2 
1 
1 3 5 7 10 
Maturity in years 
Note. Smoothed yield curve estimated using off-the-run Treasury 
coupon securities. Yields shown are those on notional par Treasury 
securities with semiannual payments. 
Percent 
Daily 
Discount rate* 
Federal funds 2-year Treasury Dec. 10 
FOMC 
Jan. 
21 8 
6 
4 
2 
0 
Jan. Mar. May July Sept. Nov. Jan. Mar. May July Sept. Nov. Jan. 
2001 2002 
* On Jan 9, 2003, the primary credit rate replaced the discount rate. 
Long-Term Interest Rates 
Percent 
9 
Daily 
10-year BBB 
30-year municipal* 
10-year Treasury Dec. 10 
FOMC 
Jan. 
21 8 
7 
6 
5 
4 
3 
Jan. Mar. May July Sept. Nov. Jan. Mar. May July Sept. Nov. Jan. 
2001 2002 
*Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency. 
Dom estic Financial Developm ents
Overview 
The escal ation of g lobal tensions si nce t he last FOMC  meeting and t he weaker 
cast to incoming  economic data  apparently  induced investors to scale back their 
expectations of near-term economic g rowth and to postpone the anticipated 
onset of Federal Reserve polic y firming  until the  fall. This r evision to the  polic y 
outlook has pulled down short-te rm rates. Investors a pparently  still ex pect the 
economic ex pansion to g ain traction, thoug h, as long er-term y ields were off only 
slightly and risk appetites appeared to g row, with c orporate yield spr eads 
narrowi ng—especi ally for ri skier credi ts. Equity  prices have moved over a wide 
range since earl y Decem ber, i n part  as m arket participants have t ried to com e to 
grips with g eopolitical risks and the heavy  flow of economic data and of 
corporate earning s reports. On net, broa d equity  index es, which had been up as 
much as 5 percent at one point, were  down a touch by  the close of Greenbook. 
Business borrowing  continues to be te pid. In contrast, household borrowing 
remains brisk, fueled by  strong  growth of  mortg age debt. Debt issuance by  state 
and local g overnments has continued to be boosted by  low interest rates and 
weak t ax revenues, and federal  borrowi ng is poised to accel erate. 
Interest Rates, S tock Prices, an d Corp orate Ri sk Spread s 
The FOMC’s decision at th e December meeting  to leave the federal funds rate 
target unchang ed and to retain a ba lanced assessment of risks was widely 
expected and had little impact on financial markets. Over the rest of December, 
Treasury yields move d down a s muc h as 30 ba sis points, a s rising geopolitic al 
concerns we ighed heavily on inve stor sentime nt. Yields the n jumpe d in e arly 
January  on the better-than-ex pected  ISM manufacturing  report and the 
Administration’s proposal of a larg er-than-ex pected fiscal stimulus packag e. 
Recently , concerns about g eopolitical risks have intensified, pushing  yields back 
down. On balance, Treasury  coupon y ields declined 5 to 20 basis points since 
the last FOMC me eting, with the  largest drop at the shor t end of  the curve. 
The ex pected path for the funds rate  has shifted down since the last F OMC 
meeting. Market participants still g ive little  weight to the  possibility  of near-
term policy  ease but have pushed back to the  fall the  date that mone tary 
tightening  is ex pected to commence, trimming  about 50 basis points from the 
cumulative amount of tig htening  anticipated by  mid-2004. 
Inflation compensation, as measured by the spread between the ten-y ear nominal 
and inflation-index ed Treasury  yields, ro se since the last FOMC me eting, with 
the bulk of the rise following  a reopene d auction for the index ed security  that 
apparently  added to market  liquidity . Survey data suggests tha t inflation 
expectations have remained steady . 
III-2
III-3
Share prices, after having  risen by  more  than 5 percent in early  January , have 
since trended down, leaving  broader equ ity index es off a shade si nce t he last 
FOMC meeting . Althoug h prices for most industry  groups posted only  small 
changes, utilitie s recorded a sizable gain, pa rtly reflecting the efforts of the 
sector’s most distressed fi rms to reduce leverag e. Uncertainty  about near-term 
share prices, as reflected in the implied volatility  on the S& P 100 (VI X), 
declined a little  after the turn of the year. 
Corporate bond y ields fell for all rating categ ories over the intermeeting  period, 
and risk spreads continued to move dow n from their October peaks. Spreads on 
BBB-rated and hig h-yield bonds declined across a broad rang e of industries but 
narrowed dramatically in the  telecom, e nergy, and utility  sectors, and lowe r-
rated bonds showed the g reatest g ains. The shrinkag e in risk spreads since 
October is likely  due, in part, to th e dwindling  number of revelations about 
corporat e malfeasance, whi ch has bol stered confi dence t hat the worst  news 
about the corporate s ector is already  out. 
In cont rast to the ex perience of t he previ ous four y ears, y ear-end pressures in the 
commercial paper market we re tame at the end of 2002. In early  January , quality 
spreads for com mercial paper rapi dly declined to ty pical levels, and new issue 
volumes rebounded from seasonally  depr essed levels in  late December. 
Busine ss Financ e 
Gross issuance of corporate bonds remain ed moderate in December and in the 
beginning  of January , with junk bonds accounting  for about one-quarter of the 
total. F irms in the energ y and utility  sectors dominated the action, but even a few 
telecom issue s were floated, probably  to take advant age of the siz able drop in 
rates and spreads i n these sect ors. Nonetheless, net debt financing  by 
nonfinancial firms was only  slightly positiv e in the fourth quarter, as commercial 
paper and C& I loans reg istered declin es and a spate of bond retirements held 
down net bond issuance. 
The latest Senior L oan Officer surv ey indicated that about 20 percent of 
domestic banks, on net, tig htened their lending  standards on business loans over 
the past thr ee months, little  changed from the  survey taken last Nove mber. At 
the same time , the fraction of  banks r eporting weaker demand for busine ss loa ns 
fell sharply  from prior survey s. In response to a special question, most banks 
indic ated tha t the ability  to pur chase or sell credit pr otection in the  credit de fault 
swap market has had no effect on the amount of business credit ex tended, on net. 
Net equity  issuance by  nonfinancial firm s likely  has remained neg ative in recent 
months. W eak share prices have put a damper on g ross equity  issuance for some 
III-4
III-5
time, and in December initial public offering s totaled just $400 million, 
completing  the weakest y ear for I POs by nonfinancial firms since 1990. There 
have been no I POs since y ear-end, and the calendar of upcoming  issues looks 
sparse. Seasoned offering s, in contra st, continued at a moderate pace in 
December and the first half of J anuary , with energ y and utility  firms accounting 
for about half of the issues. With reg ard to equity  retirements, share repurchases 
are estimated to ha ve fallen a bit in the  fourth qua rter, and retirements from 
merger activity  slowe d further. 
Corporate Credit Quality and Earnings 
Havi ng already  lowered t heir fourt h-quart er earni ngs forecast s late last year, 
analy sts made only  modest additiona l modif ications ove r the intermeeting 
period. With about one-fifth of S& P 500 firms reporting , we estimate that 
fourth-quarter earning s per share g rew about 18 percent over a y ear ag o, 
imply ing a profit level down slig htly from the  third qua rter on a  seasonally 
adjusted basis. The reports have been largely in line  with ma rket expectations, 
and analy sts’ downward revisions to y ear-ahead earning s were about averag e in 
December and J anuary , despite some ne gative forward-looking  comments from 
industry  leaders such as Microsoft and I BM. 
Lagging indicators of the credit quality  of nonfinancial corporations sug gest that 
severe financial dist ress persists for some firms. The bond default rate remained 
high in December. Rating s downg rades of corporate bonds by  Moody ’s 
continue t o far ex ceed upg rades, and recove ry rates are at  the low end of t he past 
few y ears. The ag gregate year-ahead expected default frequency  (EDF ) based on 
firm-level data from KMV r emains at a histor ically high level. 
Com mercial Real  Estate F inance 
Comme rcial mor tgage debt is e stimated to ha ve increased in the  fourth qua rter at 
an 8 percent annual rate, a bout the same pace as in the third quarter. Businesses 
may be substituting  comme rcial mor tgage debt for othe r types of borrowing , 
providing  some support for commercial mo rtgage debt g rowth despite reduced 
construction activity . As is ty pical at y ear-end, CMB S issuance surg ed in 
December, boosting  fourth-quarter i ssuance and putting  temporary  upward 
pressure on CMB S spreads. Nonethele ss, tota l CMB S issua nce last year was 
down 24 percent from that in 2001. In December, delinquencies on CMB S were 
unchang ed but  remained el evated, whi le the m ost recent  readi ngs of com mercial 
mortg age delinquencies at commercial banks and at life insurance companies 
were little  changed at relatively low le vels. 
House hold F inanc e 
Mortg age debt continued to g row at a rapid clip in the fourth quarter, as 
mortg age rates hit another historic  low over the intermeeting  period. 
III-6
III-7
III-8
III-9
Refinancing  activity , thoug h off a bit fro m its record hig h in November, has 
remained strong . Mortg age borrowing may be damping  consumer credit g rowth 
to the ex tent that households withdraw home equity  in order to pay  down loans 
with hig her interest rates. Indeed, consume r credit is e stimated to ha ve been 
weak i n the fourt h quart er, cont inuing the decel eration that has been evi dent for 
more than a y ear. As in previous Senior L oan Officer survey s, a modest 
proportion of banks in the J anuary  survey  reported tig hter standards for 
consumer loans. In addition, for the second consecutive survey , a small number 
of banks reported tig hter st andards for resi dential mortgages, marking the first 
evidence of tig htening  in this  sector since the early  1990s. 
Household delinquency rates have remained stable  in recent quarters, and 
bankruptcies fell back from their recent upward trend. The ratio of household 
assets to disposa ble income likely increased a bit in the fourth quarter, as stock 
prices moved up and house prices continued to rise, albeit at a more modest pace 
than in previous quarters. With reg ard to the allocation of mutual fund assets, 
households have continued to boost their investments in bond funds, while 
equity  funds received no net inflow , on balance, during  November and 
Decem ber. 
State and Loc al Government Financ e 
Gross issuance of long -term municipa l bonds continued at a robust pace in 
January , thoug h down from fourth quarter’s  elevated rate. New capital issuance 
was relatively  heavy  in the education and health-care sectors, and housing -
related issuance was also robust. Advan ced refunding  activity  remained strong , 
as long -term municipal bond y ields ed ged down over the intermeeting  period to 
levels that are at  the low end of t he past  few y ears. 
By all accounts, state and local g overn ments are facing  significant fiscal 
difficulties, as reflected in recent r eading s on credit quality . The number of 
bonds downg raded by  Standard and Poor’s outpaced upg rades over the 
intermeeting  period, and the spreads on revenue bonds ticked up from already 
elevated levels. Of note, Standard a nd Poor downg raded Ca lifornia, affecting 
about $40 billion in debt. 
Treasu ry an d Agen cy Finance 
Current estimates sug gest that the federa l budg et will record small surpluses for 
December and J anuary , but the budg et is anticipated to return to deficit 
beginning  in early  February . The level of federal debt is once ag ain very  near 
the statutory debt limit, a nd sta ff estimates sug gest tha t the debt limit will be 
reached by  the middle of F ebruary . If Cong ress fails to raise the debt ceiling  by 
then, the  Treasury could c ontinue  operations f or some  time  by dis-investing 
certain public trust funds , as it did last summer. 
III-10
III-11
III-12

III-13
Over the past two y ears, the Treasury has increased issuance disproportionately 
at the short end of the y ield curve to m eet recent increases in funding  needs. 
Issuance of both Tr easury bills a nd two- year note s has grown sig nificantly, 
perhaps putting  some  upwa rd pressure on shor t-term Treasury yields. 
Agency spreads to Tr easuries were little  changed ove r the intermeeting period 
and remain at the low end of last y ear’s rang e. Since October, F annie Mae’s 
duration g ap has remained within its ta rget band of plus or minus six  months. 
Freddie Mac continued to keep its duration g ap very  close to z ero. 
Money and Bank C redit 
Growth of M2 slowed in December to  a 2.7 percent annua l rate from nearly 
8 percent in both October and November owing  largely to mode rating growth of 
liquid deposits.1 Prelimina ry data for January, howe ver, sug gests tha t the growth 
of liquid deposits is rebounding  somewhat. M3 g rowth in December was 
7 percent , close to the averag e for t he fourth quarter, as strong  flows into 
institutional money  market f unds and RPs more than offset declines in larg e time 
deposits. 
Bank credit g rew at an 8-1/2 percent annual rate in Decem ber, on continued 
streng th in banks’ purchases of secu rities and lending  to households. The 
growth of real estate lending  remained  robust despite some slowing . Consumer 
loan growth, a djuste d for securitizations, a lso slowe d a bit. 
1. These data incorporate the effects of the annua l seasonal review and are confidential until 
their releas e that is plan ned for January 30th . 
III-14
III-15
Appendix 
January  2003 Senior Loan Of ficer Opinion Survey 
The January  2003 Senior Loan Officer Op inion Surv ey on Bank  Lending  Practices 
addressed chang es in the supply  of, and dem and for, bank  loans to businesses and 
households ov er the past three m onths. In addition, the surv ey contained a set of 
supplem entary  questions that focused on bank s’ participation in the credit default swap 
market. Fifty -eight dom estic and nineteen foreig n bank ing institutions responded to the 
survey. 
Althoug h dom estic and foreig n institutions continued to tig hten lending  standards and 
terms for com mercial and industrial (C& I) loans ov er the past three m onths, the 
fractions doing  so were about unchang ed from  the October surv ey. Business loan 
demand ag ain was reportedly  weak er on bala nce, but the net fraction of bank s that 
reported weak er dem and was sig nificantly  lower than in the prev ious surv ey, as sev eral 
bank s reported strong er dem and. Both dom estic and foreig n institutions continued to 
report concern about the econom ic outlook  as well as industry -specific problem s. 
A sig nificant portion of larg e dom estic bank  respondents and half of foreig n 
institutions use credit default sw aps either to hedg e loan risk  or to increase credit 
exposure. However, most other dom estic bank s reported that they  made little or no use 
of credit default sw aps, w hich they  view as a relativ ely expensiv e and com plicated w ay 
to hedg e loan risk . 
On the household side, the fractions of ba nks that tig htened standards and term s on 
credit cards and other consum er loans rem ained at the m odest lev els of recent surv eys. 
Howev er, evidence that som e bank s are beg inning  to tig hten standards on hom e 
mortgages appeared for the second consecutiv e surv ey. Dem and for consum er loans 
was about unchang ed on net, but the net fraction of bank s that reported strong er 
demand for hom e mortgages declined sharply . 
Lendi ng to Businesses 
In January , the percentag e of dom estic bank s that reported hav ing tightened standards 
on C& I loans to larg e and m iddle- market firm s over the past three m onths rem ained at 
about 20 percent for the third consecutiv e surv ey. In contrast to the prev ious two 
surveys, howev er, three of the bank s that tig htened lending  standards to larg er firm s in 
the m ost recent surv ey classified  the tig htening  as considerable. 
On the other hand, the num ber of dom estic bank s that reported tig htening  term s on 
large and m iddle- market borrowers declined  a bit between the October and the J anuary 
surveys: the net share of bank s that reported raising  fees on credit lines fell to 
22 percent from  30 percent, while the net share of bank s that reported increasing 
collateraliz ation requirem ents slipped to 17 percent from  23 percent. Two bank s 
reported reducing  spreads for som e loans in part because of m ore ag gressiv e 
competition from  other lenders. Nonetheless, the percentag e of bank s that reported 
increasing  prem iums on risk ier loans rem ained hig h, at around 40 percent. 
III-A -2
The percentag e of dom estic bank s that reported tig htening  standards for sm all firm s 
edged down from  18 percent in October to 14 percent in J anuary . The percentag e of 
bank s tightening  term s on sm all firm s also m oved down slig htly. This finding  is 
somewhat inconsistent w ith the m ost recent NFIB surv ey of sm all businesses, in w hich 
the net fraction of sm all businesses that re ported hav ing difficulty  obtaining  credit rose 
from  0 percent in N ovember to 5 percent in D ecem ber. 
Althoug h a less fav orable econom ic outlook  is still cited by  most dom estic bank s as at 
least a som ewhat im portant reason for tig htening  lending  conditions, the fraction of 
bank s that reported this as a v ery important  reason declined from  23 percent in October 
to 12 percent in J anuary . In addition, the fraction of bank s citing  reduced tolerance for 
risk fell from  71 percent in October to 63 percent in the current surv ey. By contrast, 
the percentag e of dom estic bank s that reported that worsening  industry -specific 
problem s were a reason for tig htening  standards rose substantially , from  39 percent in 
October to 66 percent in J anuary . 
The fraction of U .S. branches and ag encies of foreig n bank s that tig htened standards 
and term s on C& I loans ov er the past three m onths trended down for the second 
consecutiv e surv ey. The percentag e of foreig n institutions that had tig htened standards 
for custom ers seek ing C&I loans or credit lin es declined from  60 percent in A ugust and 
50 percent in October to 32 percent in the current surv ey. Similarly , the fractions of 
foreig n institutions that tig htened the surv eyed term s on business loans g enerally  fell 
over the past three m onths. Between the October and J anuary  surv eys, the fraction of 
foreig n institutions that raised prem iums on loans to risk ier custom ers declined from 
55 percent to about 40 percent, and the frac tion of foreig n institutions that increased 
spreads on all loans ov er their cost of funds  fell from  65 percent in the prev ious surv ey 
to 47 percent. Foreig n institutions that tig htened standards or term s generally  cited a 
less fav orable econom ic outlook  and reduced tolerance for risk  as the m ost im portant 
reasons for tig htening . 
The num ber of dom estic bank s reporting  weak er dem and from  both larg e and sm all 
firms declined in J anuary . For larg e and m edium -size firm s, the net percentag e of 
bank s that reported weak er dem and fell from  53 percent in October to 33 percent in the 
current surv ey. For sm all firm s, the net percentag e tumbled from  48 percent to 
21 percent. This result is consistent with reports in the y ear-end earning s 
announcem ents of a few reg ional bank  holding  com panies that they  had noted a pick up 
in lending  to m iddle- market firm s during  the fourth quarter. Similarly , the net share of 
branches and ag encies of foreig n bank s reporting  weaker dem and decreased to 
21 percent in J anuary  from  40 percent in October. 
As in prev ious surv eys, alm ost all dom estic bank s that experienced w eaker loan 
demand reported that a decline in custom ers’ need for bank  loans to finance capital 
expenditures was at least a som ewhat im portant reason for the weak ness in dem and. 
Reduced needs to finance m ergers and acquisitions, inv entories, and accounts 
receiv able also continue to be cited by most bank s as at least som ewhat im portant 
reasons for weak er dem and. The elev en dom estic bank s that reported an increase in 
demand for C& I loans ov er the past three m onths listed a v ariety of reasons for this 
increase, including  a shift to bank  financing  from  non- bank  credit sources and an 
III-A -3
increased need for inv entory  financing . The most frequently  cited reasons for weak er 
loan dem and at branches and ag encies of foreig n bank s continued to be a decline in 
merger and acquisition activ ity and reduced  custom er inv estment in plant and 
equipm ent. 
Credit def ault sw aps. Credit default sw aps (C DS) hav e becom e an increasing ly 
important tool for m anaging credit risk  at a num ber of financial institutions. Of the 
thirty -five larg e dom estic bank s that participated in the surv ey, about 35 percent use 
CDS to hedg e risk  in their C& I loan portfo lio. Even am ong those bank s that use CDS, 
howev er, the m ajority  do so for less than 4 percent of their total C &I loan com mitments 
(outstanding  loans plus unused lines of credit) . By contrast, about half of the foreig n 
bank s surv eyed reported purchasing  cred it protection using  CDS, and 25 percent 
indicated that m ore than 8 percent of thei r C&I loan com mitments are hedg ed in this 
fashion. The m ost com monly cited reason, by  both foreig n and dom estic institutions, 
for buy ing credit protection is that purchas ing the C DS is superior to selling  a loan 
because it preserv es the bank ’s relationship w ith the borrow er. 
Smaller fractions of dom estic and foreig n bank s use CDS to acquire credit exposure, 
and m ost bank s that do inv est in CDS report that such exposure is equiv alent to less 
than 4 percent of their total C &I loan co mmitments. For dom estic bank s, the two m ost 
important reasons for selling  credit protection w ere its risk  diversification benefits and 
its relativ e profitability . Foreig n bank s also cited the ability  to div ersify credit risk  as 
the m ost im portant reason for selling  credit pr otection. Most bank s reported that their 
participation in the CDS m arket did not aff ect their direct C &I lending . Howev er, a 
few bank s indicated that the ability  to he dge credit risk  by purchasing  CDS allow ed 
them  to m oderately  increase their direct lending . 
Most of the activ ity in the CDS m arket is done throug h dealers. On av erage, dom estic 
bank s purchased nearly  80 percent of thei r credit protection from  dealers, and m ore 
than 85 percent of that v olum e runs throug h dealers headquartered in the U.S. Dealers 
are the counterparty  for an ev en greater share of credit protection sold by  dom estic 
bank s, and alm ost all sales are to dealers h eadquartered in the U.S. Between 50 percent 
and 60 percent of the CDS transactions by  branches and ag encies of foreig n bank s are 
also conducted with dealers headquartered in the U.S., but about a third of their 
purchases and sales of CDS are with d ealers headquartered outside the U.S. 
Domestic bank s had a m ore positiv e view about liquidity  in the m arket for C DS than 
foreig n institutions. Three- fourths of dom estic bank s that participated in the m arket 
reported that it was som ewhat easy  or ine xpensiv e to unwind a position in a CDS under 
norm al market conditions. Moreov er, dom estic bank s indicated that current liquidity 
conditions were about norm al or som ewhat be tter than norm al. By contrast, 75 percent 
of foreig n bank s indicated that it was at  least som ewhat difficult or expensiv e to 
unwind positions under norm al market conditions, and about 50 percent characteriz ed 
the current m arket as less liquid than norm al. Nearly  all bank s that participate in the 
CDS m arket indicated that market quotes on CDS spreads are useful in im puting  a 
value for loan assets or pricing  new  loans under norm al market conditions. Of 
domestic bank s that do not participate in the C DS market, about half still find m arket 
quotes at least som ewhat useful for pricing  loans. 
III-A -4
Of dom estic bank s that do not use CDS to he dge loans or as standalone inv estments, 
82 percent indicated that they  found CDS to  be expensiv e relativ e to the benefits 
deriv ed from  them . Sixty -six percent of thes e bank s indicated that they  do not use CDS 
because they  are g enerally  riskier and m ore com plicated than loans, and 47 percent 
indicated that it w as difficult to find C DS offered in the am ounts or m aturities they 
desired. 
Commercial real estate lending. The net fraction of dom estic bank s that reported 
tightening  standards on com mercial real estate loans ov er the past three m onths slipped 
from  22 percent in O ctober to 14 percent in J anuary . No foreig n institutions reported 
chang ing standards for these loans in th e current surv ey, down from  three in the 
October surv ey. Dem and continued to weak en at dom estic bank s, but the net share of 
bank s reporting  weak er dem and declined from  48 percent to 21 percent. Dem and 
edged up at foreig n institutions, w ith one m ore foreig n bank  reporting  strong er dem and 
than reported weak er dem and. 
Lendi ng to Househol ds 
The share of bank s tightening  standards on residential m ortgage loans edg ed up to 
11 percent in J anuary  from  10 percent in the October surv ey. Notably , these were the 
first tw o indications of any  noticeable tig htening in ov er a decade. The net fraction of 
respondents that reported strong er dem and fo r mortgages to purchase hom es ov er the 
past three m onths dropped to 8 percent in  January  from  40 percent in the prev ious 
survey. Moreov er, the share of bank s reporting  substantially  strong er dem and fell from 
14 percent in October to 2 percent in the current surv ey. 
As in the October surv ey, about 15 percent of dom estic bank s indicated that they  had 
tightened standards on credit card loans ov er the past three m onths. Howev er, in the 
current surv ey the share of bank s that re ported tig htening  standards for other consum er 
loans edg ed dow n to 9 percent in J anuary . Despite the recent release of new  regulatory 
guidelines dealing  with som e aspects of bank s’ credit card lending , none of the bank s 
in the surv ey reported increasing  the m inimum monthly  payment for their credit card 
holders. Indeed, few bank s reported that they  had tig htened any  term s on either their 
credit card loans or other consum er loans. On net, dem and for consum er loans was 
reportedly  about unchang ed ov er the past three m onths. 
III-A -5
III-A -6
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S.  International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The deficit in U.S. international trad e in goods and services was $40.1 billion in
November, much larger than in Octobe r (revised), as an increase in imports
exceeded that of exports.  For October and November, the deficit averaged $452
billion at a seasonally adjusted annual ra te, about $10 billion larger than in the
third quarter.
Imports of goods and services in Nove mber jumped 4.9 percent from a low point
in October to the highest level record ed since January 2001.  Imports of goods
rebounded 5.5 percent from an October le vel that was held down by port
closures on the West Coast.  Increases were recorded in the categories ofconsumer goods, computers, other capital goods, automotive products, and
foods.  However, the value of imported oil declined.  Services payments grew
2.0 percent in November, about twice as fast as in October, owing largely to
rises in travel and other transportation.  On average in October and November,
the value of imported goods and services grew 1¾ percent at an annual rate from
the third-quarter level.  Im ports of goods rose ¾ per cent, and services payments
rose 6¾ percent.
Exports of goods and services rose 1.1 percent in November following a small
decline in October.  Exports of goods  increased 1.0 percent in November, but
remained below the third-quarter average level.  Small increases in exports ofindustrial supplies (particul arly chemicals and fuels) , foods, and consumer goods
were nearly offset by declines in exports of aircraft, semiconductors, and
automotive products.  Services receipts ro se 1.2 percent, only slightly less than
in October, led by increases in travel , other transportation, and other private 
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
services.  For October and November, the average value of exports of goods and
services declined 1¾ percent at an annua l rate from the third quarter.  Exports of
goods fell 6 percent, whereas se rvices receipts rose 8½ percent.
Prices of Internationally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In December, the price of imported non-oil goods and the
price of imported core goods ticked up 0.1 and 0.2 percent, respectively,
overturning similarly sized decreases in November.  Within core goods, thelargest price increase was observed in foods, feeds and beverages, which rose0.5 percent, prompted by higher prices for coffee and for meat, poultry, andother edible animal products.  Prices also edged up in non-oil industrial supplies,which rose 0.3 percent, prompted by higher prices for natural gas and unfinishedmetals.  For the fourth quarter on average, core import prices were up 1½percent at an annual rate, a slightly higher rate of increase than in the thirdquarter.
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose  7.4 percent in December after falling a
revised 9.2 percent in November.  The s pot price of West Texas intermediate
(WTI) also rose in December, climbin g above $30 per barrel towards the end of
the month.  The spot price of WTI has remained elevated in January and is
currently trading around $34 per barrel.  The recent increase in oil prices
primarily reflects supply disruptions cause d by the strike in Venezuela and the
market’s perception that the United States is intensifying its preparations formilitary action in Iraq.
Exports.   Both the price of total U.S. ex ported goods and the price of exported
core goods edged down 0.2 percent in Decem ber, after having risen almost every
month since February.  Within core goods, the largest price movement in
December was a 0.6 percent decrease in the price of exported agricultural
products, driven largely by lower prices for wheat and corn.  Prices in other
major categories were generally little changed.  For the fourth quarter onaverage, core export prices were up 1½ per cent at an annual rate, slower than the
third quarter’s 4 percent pace.
U.S. Current Account through 2002:Q3
In the third quarter, the U.S. current account deficit was $508 billion (s.a.a.r.),
little changed from the second quarter (revi sed).  The trade deficit on goods and
services widened slightly, resulting from a minor increase in the merchandisetrade deficit and a small reduction in the services trade surplus.  The deficit oninvestment income moved lower in the third quarter, as por tfolio investment
payments declined in response to lower U. S. interest rates.  The deficit on other
income and unilateral tran sfers was little changed.  The current account deficit
for the second quarter was revised down $9 billion (s.a.a.r.), owing to an upward
IV-6
Annual
2000 -378.7 27.7 -59.3 -410.3
2001 -358.3 20.5 -55.6 -393.4
Quarterly
2001:Q4 -352.1 32.4 -60.6 -380.3
2002:Q1 -382.0 2.7 -70.6 -449.8
Q2 -437.3 -14.5 -58.7 -510.4
Q3 -443.4 -5.5 -59.2 -508.2
Change
Q4-Q3 -33.0 23.0 -5.0 -15.0
Q1-Q4 -29.9 -29.7 -9.9 -69.5
Q2-Q1 -55.3 -17.2 11.9 -60.6
Q3-Q2 -6.2 9.0 -0.5 2.3
     Source:  U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis.Peri odU.S. Current Account
(Billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted annual rate)
Other  
income and 
transfers, netCurrent 
account 
balanceInvestment 
income,      
netGoods and 
services,     
netrevision to the trade surplus on services  and a downward revision to the deficit
on investment income.
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
Foreign official assets held in the United States (line 1 of the Summary of U.S.
International Transactions table) decreased  slightly in October but increased by a
substantial $21 billion in November.  Pa rtial data, from th e Federal Reserve
Bank of New York, indicate a furthe r increase of $23 billion in December,
               .  Given the availabledata, it appears foreign official reserves  in the United States increased by about
$105 billion in 2002, compared with $7 billion in 2001.
Foreign private net purchases of U.S. secu rities (line 4) continued at their recent
level during the October-N ovember period, leaving the pace of net foreign
purchases slightly below 2001’ s record level.  Net purchases of Treasury
securities (line 4a) were very small in both months , but nonetheless totaled $55
billion during the July-November period, follo wing net sales in the first half of
2002 as well as in the preceding two years.  Agency securities (line 4b) werepurchased at a robust rate in both mont hs, and net purchases of corporate debt
securities (line 4c) rebounde d in November from the relatively low levels of
recent months.  Foreign net acquisitions of U.S. equities ( line 4d) remained 
IV-7
Summary of U.S. International Transactions
(Billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted except as noted)
2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct Nov
Official financial flows 39.3 2.3 5.5 7.7 45.5 7.1 -1.9 21.3
1. Change in foreign official assets
in the U.S. (increase, +) 39.6 7.2 5.7 6.6 47.4 8.5 -2.0 21.3
a.  G-10 countries 12.3 -7.9 9.1 4.9 17.6 1.8 -2.6 7.6
b.  OPEC countries 10.7 -1.9 4.2 -6.6 1.1 -1.3 1.3 .6
c.  All other countries 16.6 22.1 -7.6 8.3 28.6 8.0 -.8 13.1
2. Change in U.S. official reserve
assets (decrease, +) -.3 -4.9 -.2 .4 -1.8 -1.4 .2 .0
Private financial flows 370.3 379.8 145.2 80.6 27.7 165.3 ... ...
Banks
3. Change in net foreign positions
of banking offices in the U.S.1-6.7 11.0 38.2 5.6 -21.5 63.5 28.7 -30.3
Securities2
4. Foreign net purchases of U.S.
securities (+) 381.0 403.5 127. 2 69.1 95.7 100.6 28.4 40.1
a. Treasury securities -76.4 -5.5 27.7 .0 -9.2 53.4 .8 1.1b. Agency bonds 96.5  85.3 27.6  2.4 32.9 22.0 16.1 12.8c. Corporate and municipal bonds 165.7 201.8 38.4 43.3 60.0 17.2 8.0 19.7d. Corporate stocks
3195.1 121.9 33.5 23.4 12.1 8.0 3.6 6.5
5. U.S. net acquisitions (-) of
foreign securities -126.6 -95.0 -26.1 2.0 -9.3 18.0 -1.3 -.7
a. Bonds -23.3 12.4 -7.2  .6 10.4 5.7 6.0 1.4b. Stock purchases -22.9 -62.7 -12.4 3.2 -19.8 14.0 -7.2 -2.1c. Stock swaps
3-80.4 -44.7 -6.4 -1.8 .0 -1.7 .0 .0
Other flows (quarterly data, s.a.)
6. U.S. direct investment (-) abroad -178.3 -127.8 -27.5 -29.3 -34.3 -27.5 ... ...7. Foreign direct investment in U.S. 307.7 130.8 21.9 16.2 -2.7 11.0 ... ...8. Foreign holdings of U.S. currency 1.1 23.8 10.5 4.5 7.2 2.6 ... ...9. Other (inflow, + )
4-7.9  33.4 -.1  12.4 -7.4 -2.9 ... ...
U.S. current account (s.a.) -410.3 -393.4 -95.1 -112.5 -127.6 -127.0 ... ...
Capital account balance (s.a.)5.8 .8 .2 .2 .2 .2 ... ...
Statistical discrepancy (s.a.) .0 10.7 -55.8 24.7 54.2 -45.6 ... ...
NOTE:  The sum of official and private financial flows, the current account balance, the capital account balance, and the
statistical discrepancy is zero.  Details may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1.  Changes in dollar-denominated positions of all depository institutions and bank holding companies plus certain
transactions between broker-dealers and unaffiliated foreigners (particularly borrowing and lending under repurchaseagreements). Includes changes in custody liabilities other than U.S. Treasury bills.
2.  Includes adjustments BEA makes to account for incomple te coverage, but excludes adjustments for commissions and
therefore does not match exactly the data on U.S. international transactions published by the Department of Commerce.
3.  Includes (4d) or represents (5c) stocks acquired through mergers.4.  Transactions by nonbanking concerns and other banking and official transactions not shown elsewhere plus amounts
resulting from adjustments made by the Department of Commerce and revisions in lines 1 through 5 since publication of thequarterly data in the Survey of Current Business.
5. Consists of transactions in nonproduced nonfinancial assets and capital transfers.
n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.  
IV-8
modest in both October a nd November and for 2002 are averaging less than half
the pace of the 1999-2001 period. 
U.S. residents were modest net purchasers of foreign securities (line 5) in both
October and November, with net purchases of foreign equities (line 5b) slightlyexceeding net sales of foreign bonds (line 5a) in both months.  U.S. residents
have been net sellers of  foreign bonds on a regular basis during 2002, with net
sales reaching $24 billion through Nove mber.  Smaller net acquisitions of
foreign equities during the year have created the possibility that 2002 could
become the first year since 1955 during wh ich U.S. residents were net sellers of
foreign securities.
Net banking flows (line 3) continued to be volatile and were roughly offsetting
during October-November, with most fl ows attributed to inter-office funding
activity.
Balance of payments data for the thir d quarter show U.S. direct investment
abroad (line 6) exceeding foreign direct investment in the United States (line 7)for the fifth consecutive quarter.  U.S. di rect investment abroad continued at its
pace of recent quarters while foreign direct investment in the United States,though low by past standards, was none theless well above its exceptionally low
level of the second quarter.
The statistical discrepancy was ne gative $46 billion in the third quarter
following a discrepancy of positive $54 b illion in the second quarter.  A negative
statistical discrepancy indicates some  combination of underreporting of the
current account deficit or overre porting of net capital inflows.
IV-9
Foreign Exchange Markets
The dollar recorded sizable declines against all the currencies in the major
currencies index in the period since the December FOMC meeting, slippingalmost 4 percent on a trade-weighted ba sis.  The largest depreciations were
against the Swiss franc (6½ percent), the euro (5¾ percent), and the yen 
(4¼ percent).  The timing of the dollar’s  move is difficult to reconcile with
economic data released over the pe riod, which showed Japanese economic
growth approaching zero again and th e weak German economy possibly in a
double-dip recession.  Market participants linked the dollar’s weakness to the
building tensions over Iraq and North Kor ea.  The increasingly large U.S. current
account deficit may have ex acerbated these pressures on the dollar.  The U.S.
dollar slipped 1¾ percent against the Cana dian dollar, as the strength of the
Canadian economy continues to su rprise market participants.  
Much of strong performance of the Swiss franc appeared to be related to safe
haven demand.  Safe haven flows also played a role, along with the weakness of
the dollar, in the 10 percent jump of the price of gold, which reached a six-yearhigh. 
The euro-area stock market, which register ed a 6 percent decline in share prices,
underperformed the U.S. market.  Global tensions appeared to weigh on stocks
at the end of 2002, but prices rebounded sh arply after the New Year’s holiday,
partly on relief that the turn of the year had passed without geopolitical
IV-10
disruptions and on a much stronger-than- expected U.S. ISM report.  However,
prices headed down again late in the pe riod as worries that growth in Europe
would be sluggish were added to the ot her threats.  European telecommunication
and utility firms were the only sectors to have rising share prices, followinggains in these sectors on U.S. exchanges.  The Topix index of Japanese shareprices was little changed over the period.    
Euro-area ten-year benchmark bond yiel ds declined 28 basis points over the
intermeeting period, reflecting expectations  of slower growt h, particularly in
Germany.  The yield on the benchmark ten-year Japanese government bond fell
20 basis points to a four-year low of 0.81 percent, and the yield on the 20-yearJGB also hit a four-year low at 1.29 percen t.  The prices of Japanese long-term
bonds were supported in part by an a nnouncement by the Japanese government
that bond issuance would increase less in the coming fiscal year than market
participants had expected. 
The European Central Bank cut its policy rates by 50 basis points on
December 5.  The Bank of Japan, the Bank of Canada, and the Bank of England
did not adjust their monetary policy st ances during the period, and three-month
interest rates were little changed. 
IV-11
Financial market sentiment toward Brazil and Argentina improved markedly
over the intermeeting period.  On January 16 Argentina signed a letter of intent
with the IMF for a program that woul d refinance $6.6 billion in debt payments
coming due through August.  The Argentin e stock market gained 11 percent, the
peso soared 17 percent against the dollar,  and the yield spread of Argentina’s
debt narrowed 130 basis points on net, al beit from a very high level.  The
administration of newly inaugurated Brazilian President Lula signaled itsintention to run a tight fiscal policy a nd reform Brazil’s pension system, helping
assuage concerns in the market.  To counter an inflati on rate well above its
target, the central bank of Brazil raised its key policy rate a total of 350 basis
points to 25.50 percent.  The real appreciated 8 percent against the dollar,
Brazil’s EMBI+ spread contracted 270 basis points on balance, while the
Brazilian stock market tallie d a 9.5 percent gain.  Above-target inflation also
forced the central bank of Mexico to tight en monetary policy, its third tightening
in four months.  The Mexican peso depr eciated 6 percent against the dollar. The
recent bout of weakness of U.S. and Eu ropean equities was also felt in Latin
American bond trading, which gave back so me of their gains late in the period.  
IV-12
The Venezuelan bolivar tumbled 32 percent against the dollar, to a new low, and
Venezuela’s EMBI+ spread widened 500 ba sis points, as the ongoing general
strike that began in early December has slashed oil revenue.  On January 22, the
central bank of Venezuela closed the foreign exchange market in an effort tostem the outflow of o fficial reserves.   
In developing Asia, tensions over the North Korean situation weighed on South
Korean equity prices, which fell 12 per cent.  Despite these worries, the Korean
won appreciated 2¾ percent versus the do llar, somewhat less than the yen’s gain
against the dollar.  Share prices in mo st other Asian stock markets rose between
2 and 5 percent in the period since the December FOMC meeting, helped in partby more favorable sentiment  towards technology stocks.
           
 .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for the
accounts of the System or Treasury.
IV-13
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
Indicators for the fourth quarter imply slower growth in many major foreign
industrial countries.  Ja panese industria l production dropped considerably on
average over the first two months of the quarter, and household expenditures
declined as well.  In the euro area, declines in retail sales and consumerconfidence suggest that consumer sp ending remains sluggish.  Signs of
moderating growth in the British service sector indicate a softening in the paceof expansion despite the c ontinued strength in housing.   In contrast, Canadian
data point to strength led by reta il sales, employment  and construction.
Twelve-month consumer-price inflation rose in most major foreign industrial
countries.  In Canada and the euro area,  higher energy prices were partially
responsible for the upturn.  In the Un ited Kingdom, rapid increases in housing
prices also added significantly to the rise  in inflation.  Japane se prices continued
to fall, though at a slightly reduced pace.
In Japan , recent indicators point to a marked slowing in the pace of growth
following a brief upturn in the second a nd third quarters.  Industrial production
dropped 1.6 percent in November from the previous month.  The broader
all-industries index of  output fell 0.3 percent in Oct ober.  Indicators of consumer
spending have weakened.  Household ex penditures were down roughly 1 percent
on average in October and November from the third-quarter average.  New carregistrations declined slightly during the fourth quarter.  Recent data on businessfixed investment have been mixed.  N onresidential building starts recovered
some in October and November from the third quarter.  However, core
machinery orders, a more forward-l ooking indicator, fell in October and
November.  On the other hand, exports ar e showing signs of renewed strength,
with real exports for October and N ovember on average about 5 percent above
the third-quarter average.  Real  imports fell roughly 2 percent.
Labor market conditions remain very so ft.  The unemployment rate edged down
to 5.3 percent in November from the record -high in October.  However, the fall
resulted from unemployed persons exiting the labor force and was accompanied
by a continued decline in employment.  The job-offers-to-app licants ratio, a key
leading indicator of employment conditions, was up slightly to 0.57 inNovember, but remains at lo w levels.  Core consumer goods prices in the Tokyo
area (which exclude fresh food but incl ude energy) fell 0.1 percent in December
from the previous month, and were down 0.7 percent from a year earlier. 
Wholesale prices for domestic goods fell 1.2 percent in December from a year
earlier.
IV-14
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
Industrial production13.8 2.2 n.a. -.1 -.2 -1.6 n.a.
All-industries index .3 .6 n.a. -.2 -.3 n.a. n.a.Housing starts -.8 -3.9 n.a. -.9 6.8 -5.9 n.a.Machinery orders
27.1 -1.7 n.a. 12.7 -4.1 -.2 n.a.
Machinery shipments36.6 1.6 n.a. -3.9 1.8 -.3 n.a.
New car registrations 5.3 3.1 -.4 -8.6 2.5 -1.8 -2.8Unemployment rate
45.3 5.4 n.a. 5.4 5.5 5.3 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.53 .54 n.a. .55 .56 .57 n.a.
Business sentiment6-32 -30 -28 ... ... ... n.a.
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-1.1 -.9 -.7 -.9 -.8 -.7 -.7
Wholesale prices7-2.2 -1.9 -1.3 -1.8 -1.4 -1.2 -1.2
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
The Bank of Japan’ s Tankan index of bus iness conditions improved slightly in
December, with the level of the aggreg ate diffusion index for business sentiment
among firms of all sizes and across all industries edging up to -28 from -30 in
September.  However, survey respondents pr ojected a decline in the index, to -31,
for March.  Other survey indicators were also generally consis tent with weakness
in economic activity going forward.  Indi cators of excessive employment levels
improved a bit, but remained at elevated levels.  Forecasts for profits and saleswere generally revised down.  The outl ook for investment spending remained
very weak, with capital expenditures acr oss all firms projected to decline 5.1
percent in FY2002, which ends this March. 
The Ministry of Finance submitted its draft budget for FY2003 to the Cabinet on
December 20.  Expenditures are slated to ri se a bit, reflecting increased spending
IV-15
on social security, debt servicing, and tax grants to local governments.  Tax
revenues are projected to drop, in part because of planned tax cuts of around ¥1.8
trillion (about 0.4 percent of GDP).  As a result, the budget will require new bond
issuance for FY2003 of ¥36 trillion, up from FY2002’s expected total ¥35 trillionissuance, the combination of ¥30 trillion from the original budget and ¥5 trillionfrom the supplemental budget (and in ex cess of Prime Minister Koizumi’s
commitment to a ¥30 trillion ceiling on bond i ssuance).  Nevertheless, the overall
fiscal stance this year is expected to be broadly neut ral, as the recently announced
supplementary budget (which will hit spending this year) is a little less
stimulative than the one a year ago.
Recent data suggest that euro-area consumer spending remains sluggish.  Euro-
area retail sales rebounded in  October, but German retail sales plummeted in
November to their lowest level sin ce April 1998, and French consumption of
manufactured products declined as we ll in November.  Euro-area consumer
confidence slipped for the third straight month in December, to its lowest level inmore than five years, with consum er perceptions of the general economic
situation and employment cond itions deteriorating sharply.
Euro-area industrial production registered strong gains in November, putting the
October-November average 0.7 percent above  the third-quarter level, but it is
unclear whether those gains mark the st art of an upturn in euro-area growth. 
Much of the November increase owed to sharp increases in automobileproduction, spurred in part by a runup in  Italian auto sales ahead of the
announced December expiration of government incentives to buyenvironmentally friendly cars.  The incen tive has since been extended for three
months.  
German manufacturing orders also picked  up in November, owing entirely to a
rise in foreign orders.  In contrast, the euro-area purchasing managers’ index
(PMI) for manufacturing, thought to be the best timely indicator of production,
declined further below the 50 level (the  threshold for positive growth) to 48.4 in
December, its lowest level since Ja nuary 2002.  The European Commission’s
measure of industrial confidence regi stered a small increase in December,
boosted by improved production expectations  and order books and a fall in stocks
of finished products. 
The twelve-month rate of euro-area consum er price inflation remained just above
the European Central Bank’s (ECB) targ et ceiling of 2 percent in December. 
Excluding energy and unprocessed food, tw elve-month inflation remained at 2.4
percent in November.  Producer price inflation picked up a bit in December toabout 1 percent.
IV-16
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
Industrial production1.6 .1 n.a. .0 .2 1.0 n.a.
Retail sales volume -.4 .6 n.a. -.9 .7 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
28.2 8.3 n.a. 8.3 8.4 8.4 n.a.
Consumer confidence3-8.3 -10.0 -14.0 -9.0 -12.0 -14.0 -16.0
Industrial confidence4-10.7 -11.7 -10.3 -12.0 -11.0 -11.0 -9.0
Mfg. orders, Germany 2.1 -1.2 n.a. -1.0 1.1 1.7 n.a.CPI
52.1 2.0 2.2 2.1 2.3 2.2 2.2
Producer prices5-.8 -.1 n.a. .1 .9 1.1 n.a.
M357.1 7.3 n.a. 7.3 7.0 7.1 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO defi nition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
3. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.     n.a.  Not available.
The ECB reduced its key policy rate by 50 basis points on December 5 to 2.75
percent, citing evidence that inflationary pressures are easing, owing in particularto the sluggish economic expansion, wh ile downside risks to the economy have
not vanished.  The ECB left  rates unchanged at its January 9 meeting, but it
continued to emphasize the high level of uncertainty.
In the United Kingdom , data for the fourth quart er are mixed, but on balance
point to moderate growth, with the manufacturing sector remaining relatively
weak and with growth in the service sector slowing.   Average industrial
production for October and N ovember fell 0.5 percent compared with the third-
quarter average, but manufacturing output increased in November.  Exports fell
significantly in the first two months of the quarter.  In recent months, themanufacturing PMI has been falling, with December’s index indicating
contraction in the sector.  November retail sales grew onl y 0.1 percent after
growing briskly in October, and the lead ing survey of retail sales indicates weak
IV-17
sales in December.  December’s services PMI continued to indicate a notable
expansion, but at a reduced pace.
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002 2003
Q2 Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan.
Industrial production .3 .4 n.a. .1 -.5 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume 1.7 .7 n.a. .7 .1 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
1
      Claims-based 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 n.a.      Labor force survey
25.2 5.2 n.a. 5.2 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence38.0 10.7 3.0 8.0 2.0 -1.0 2.0
Consumer confidence4-4.0 -2.7 -3.0 -2.0 -1.0 -6.0 n.a.
Retail prices51.9 2.0 2.6 2.3 2.8 2.7 n.a.
Producer input prices6-5.9 -2.3 1.4 2.1 -.7 2.6 n.a.
Average earnings63.9 3.8 n.a. 3.7 4.0 n.a. n.a.
      1. Percent.
2. Three-month average centered on month shown.3. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expecting output to decrease.
4. Average of the percentage balance from consumers’ expectations of their financial
situation, general economic situation, unemployment, and savings over the next 12 months.
5. Excluding mortgage interest payments.  Percent change from year earlier.6. Percent change from year earlier.
     ...  Not applicable.  n.a.  Not available.
Housing prices increased around 25 percen t in the twelve months ending in
December according to the two leading surv eys, despite some anecdotal evidence
that the housing market is cooling.  Th e average construction PMI rose in the
fourth quarter.  Borrowing to finan ce the purchase of homes moderated in
December, though it remained robust.
The few available indicators of confiden ce suggest a further slowing of growth. 
Consumer sentiment worsened in December,  mostly due to lower expectations of
the general economic situation. In Janua ry, business confidence edged up to a
level just below its fourth-quarter average.  Both confidence measures are stillwell above their lows in late 2001.
IV-18
Labor market conditions remained tight.  The official claims-based
unemployment rate held steady at 3.1 per cent in December, near a record low. 
The twelve-month rate of retail price in flation (excluding mortgage interest
payments) rose to 2.6 percent in the four th quarter, above the Bank of England’s
2½ percent target.  The increase in infl ation partially reflected higher housing
prices.  The twelve-month growth ra te of average earnings edged up to
4.0 percent in November.
In Canada , real GDP measured by industry increased 4.2 percent (s.a.a.r.) in
October.  The retail sector and reside ntial construction ex hibited particular
strength.  Retail sales jumped in Oct ober, after stagnating since June, led by
purchases of clothing and motor vehicles .  Housing starts in the fourth quarter
increased to their highest level since 1990, as low mortgage rates continue to
support the sector.  Industrie s related to resi dential construction, such as wood
products and home furnishings, benef itted from the housing boom.  Industrial
production grew only slightly in Octobe r, as flat manufacturing growth and
declines in the oil and gas extraction sect or held down the index.  In November,
manufacturing shipments fe ll 1.3 percent led by a decrease in the production of
motor vehicles.  
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2002
Q2 Q3 Q4 Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
GDP by industry 1.0 .8 n.a. .1 .3 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production 1.3 1.1 n.a. .5 .1 n.a. n.a.New mfg. orders 3.7 1.0 n.a. -2.6 .3 -.9 n.a.Retail sales .8 .8 n.a. -.5 1.7 n.a. n.a.Employment .9 .9 .8 .3 .2 .3 .4Unemployment rate
17.6 7.6 7.5 7.7 7.6 7.5 7.5
Consumer prices21.3 2.3 3.8 2.3 3.2 4.3 3.9
Consumer attitudes3125.3 124.2 122.6 ... ... ...
Business confidence3145.2 129.7 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-19
The unemployment rate remained at 7.5 pe rcent in December after falling slightly
in November.  An increase in employment was offset by a rise in the labor force
participation rate, leaving the unemploym ent rate unchanged. Over the course of
2002, Canadian employment increased 3.7 percent, the largest twelve-month
increase since 1988.  In December, the twelve-month rate of headline CPI
inflation fell to 3.9 percent from 4.3 per cent in November, but remained above
the ceiling of the Bank of Canada’s 1 to  3 percent target band. In the fourth
quarter year-over-year infla tion was 3.8 percent, reflecting higher energy prices,
increases in tobacco taxes, as well as higher automobile insurance premiums. 
Core inflation, excluding food and energy prices, rose to 3.9 percent in December
from 3.7 percent the month before.
IV-20
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Sep. Oct. Nov.
Japan
Trade 72.4 86.1 73.9 60.3 86.8 103.7
Current account 117.5 118.7 115.0 99.4 112.8 n.a.
Euro area
Trade166.5 89.8 129.1 104.8 110.3 119.1
Current account140.9 20.4 79.7 94.1 43.6 n.a.
Germany
Trade 112.3 108.6 136.9 140.0 116.6 132.2Current account 36.9 43.7 42.6 77.2 58.1 101.6
France
Trade .9 1.5 1.9 1.4 2.0 .5Current account 3.6 4.5 4.3 3.3 .0 n.a.
Italy
Trade 5.0 11.0 7.8 16.5 4.7 n.a.Current account
1-9.3 -16.0 12.1 -5.0 3.0 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -46.3 -37.4 -54.0 -51.1 -67.8 -75.1Current Account -15.0 -21.1 -13.6 ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 34.8 33.8 34.6 36.3 36.9 31.4Current Account 13.4 12.1 13.1 ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-21
IV-22
IV-23
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Although growth in the emerging market economies remains positive on
balance, it has slowed considerably from th e first half of last year.  In South
America, the economic and political environment remains quite unfavorable. Venezuela’s economy has been brought to  a standstill by an ongoing national
strike against the government.  In Ar gentina, even though the economy appears
to have bottomed out, there are no signs of a sustained recovery.  In Brazil,
financial market anxietie s have calmed some since the presidential election, but
economic indicators are still mixed.  The pace of recovery in Mexico seems to
have moderated.  In emerging Asia, which experienced fairly rapid growth
earlier last year, economic  conditions have softened somewhat in Korea,
Taiwan, and the ASEAN countries, while  indicators in Hong Kong suggest
sluggish growth.  Only in China has growth remained strong.
In Brazil , indicators since the last Gree nbook show a mixed picture of real
activity in the fourth quarter.  Real retail sales remained flat in October andNovember, although auto sa les were up 8 percent on average for the quarter.  
Industrial production rose ½ percent in November, the sixth consecutive month
of increase, and was up nearly 3 per cent on average in October and November
relative to the third quarter.  However,  unemployment has continued to climb. 
The trade balance showed further cons iderable improvement, reflecting both
weak domestic demand and increased competitiveness in the wake of the largedepreciation of the currency through much of last year.  Refl ecting the continued
pass-through from the depreciation of the real, inflation ended the year with a
twelve-month increase of 12.6 percent, well above the ceiling of 5.5 percent
under the inflation-targetin g regime.  Concerns about inflation prompted the
central bank to raise its benchmark intere st rate to 25 percent in December, up
700 basis points since the central bank star ted raising rates in mid-October.  On
January 21, the government raised th e upper bound of the 2003 inflation target
from 6.5 percent to 8.5 percent, citing its desire to reduce inflation more
gradually in order to spur output gr owth.  The upper bound of the 2004 inflation
target was, however, reduced from 6.25 to 5.5 percent.  On January 22, the
Brazilian central bank tightened monetary policy another 50 basis points.
Financial conditions conti nued the improvement seen since mid-October, driven
by president Lula’s appointment of senior economic officials considered
market-friendly and by promises of th e Lula government, which took office
January 1, to enact fiscal a nd monetary reforms.  The real has retraced more than
one-third of the 40 percent decline in its  value since April.  However, market
concerns about the government’s commitme nt to prudent fiscal and monetary
policies remain.
IV-24
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP1-.8 n.a. 3.8 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.4 n.a. -.3 n.a. 1.7 .5 n.a.Unemployment rate
26.2 n.a. 8.1 n.a. 8.5 8.7 n.a.
Consumer prices37.7 12.5 7.6 10.6 8.4 10.9 12.6
Trade balance42.6 13.1 18.9 23.9 30.0 21.1 20.6
Current account5-23.2 n.a. 4.1 n.a. -.4 -2.1 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  “Open” unemployment rate.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , data releases since the Decem ber Greenbook support the view that
the economy has bottomed out, even thoug h there have been no signs of a
sustained recovery.  In spite of the de valuation earlier last year, inflation has
been contained by the very weak economy, the suppression of utility rate
increases, and the stabilization of the peso since mid-year (supported by very
high real interest rates and capital controls).  The CPI rose 41 percent in 2002 on
a twelve-month basis, but the monthly ra te of change diminished to 0.2 percent
in December.  The weak economy also c ontributed to an improvement in the
trade balance.  Bank deposits have been rising since mid-year, but are still at avery low level.
Reflecting deep divisions within the Argentine government, BCRA President
Aldo Pignanelli resigned in early Decembe r, marking the third departure of an
Argentine central bank president in 2002.  His replacement is Alfonso Prat Gay,
an economist and an associate of Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna.  Citing its
deep fiscal problems, Argentina’s gove rnment defaulted on payments to the
World Bank in late 2002 and to the In ter-American Development Bank (IADB)
on January 15.  The default on the IADB payment came amid intensenegotiations between Argentina and the Fund that resulted, on January 16, in the
signing of a letter of intent on a ne w IMF program that would refinance
$6.6 billion in debt payments due to the IMF through August, providing somebreathing room for the new governme nt slated to take office in May.
IV-25
The program is expected to be considered by the IMF’s Executive Board by
January 24.  On January 17, Argentina ma de its scheduled $1 billion payment to
the IMF.  The Argentine government is also expected to clear its arrears ofroughly $1.5 billion with the World Bank and the IADB, as well as honor anestimated $2.5 billion in payments due to  these institutions through August.
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP1 -10.3 n.a. 1.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -5.0 n.a. -.6 n.a. -.5 -.4 n.a.Unemployment rate
217.4 19.7 n.a. 17.8 ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 -1.4 41.0 35.9 40.4 39.4 40.7 41.0
Trade balance47.5 n.a. 17.0 n.a. 18.9 18.3 n.a.
Current account5-4.4 n.a. 9.9 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data are released for May and October only.  Figures for Q2 reflect data
for May.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Mexico, incoming data have been mixed but  overall suggest that the recovery
continued into the fourth quarter of  last year, even though its pace has
moderated.  The index of overall economic activity (a  proxy for monthly real
GDP) increased 0.6 percent in October and exports rose in November.  By
contrast, industrial production declined slightly in November, and business
confidence fell back in December after posting a significant increase inNovember.  Imports in November grew  about twice as much as exports,
widening the trade deficit.  Twelve-month inflation for December came in at5.7 percent, well above the g overnment’s target of 4½ percent.  Concerned that
this would fuel inflationary expectati ons and put pressure  on wage and salary
negotiations, thereby jeopardizing the ambiti ous target of 3 percent inflation for
this year, the Bank of Mexico tightened monetary policy for the third time sincethe beginning of September.  The po licy move may also have been partly
intended to stem the recent depreciation of the peso.
IV-26
In mid-December, the Mexican congress approved the 2003 fiscal deficit target
of ½ percent of GDP proposed by the government.  However, the congress
modified the original proposal by increasing the budgeted oil price and
earmarking the additional revenue for sp ending on agriculture, education, and
health.  (The official government budget  deficit leaves out many obligations. 
For 2002 the overall public sector borrowing  requirement taking into account all
of the government’s liab ilities was about 3.2 percent of  GDP, while the official
fiscal deficit figure is likely to come in at about 0.7 percent of GDP.)
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP1-1.5 n.a. 4.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Overall economic activity -.2 n.a. .3 n.a. .6 n.a. n.a.Industrial production -3.4 n.a. -.7 n.a. .8 -.1 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.5 2.7 2.9 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.5
Consumer prices3 4.4 5.7 5.2 5.3 5.0 5.4 5.7
Trade balance4-10.0 n.a. -8.8 n.a. -8.8 -10.5 n.a.
Imports4168.4 n.a. 170.6 n.a. 167.9 171.1 n.a.
Exports4158.4 n.a.  161.7 n.a. 159.1 160.6 n.a.
Current account5-18.0 n.a. -12.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Since the December Greenbook, an ongoing national strike in Venezuela  has
intensified difficulties in the alread y crumbling economy and paralyzed the
country’s vital oil industry.  The stri ke began December 2 and is led by a
coalition of opposition groups, including bus iness and labor in terests, hoping to
force a national referendum on the rule of  President Chavez.  The government is
struggling to provide basic necessitie s such as food and gasoline to the
population, as shortages of most goods are commonplace.  So far domestic and
international attempts to find a negotiated settlement between the two sides havefailed.  Oil production is es timated to have declined 80 to 90 percent since early
December, resulting in enormous fiscal  and economic costs.  The country is
struggling to make debt payments, sp reads on sovereign debt have risen
IV-27
markedly, and the value of the currency against the dollar is down sharply since
the start of the strike.  On January  22, Venezuelan authorities announced a
five-days suspension of foreign exchange trading.
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP1 .9 n.a. 21.8 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.3 n.a. 16.5 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices312.3 31.2 24.8 30.6 29.9 30.7 31.2
Non-oil trade balance4-12.2 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance49.3 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account53.9 n.a. 15.3 n.a. ... ... n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Following solid economic growth in the third quarter, recent indicators for
Korea  point to some softening in c onditions.  Industrial production rose
modestly in November, prima rily due to surprising strength in the high-tech
industries.  Indicators for December have  been mixed.  Consumer and investor
confidence were weighed down by the un certain global environment, including
the situation in North Korea, while the unemployment rate moved down.  In
January, the Korean central bank once agai n left its target rate unchanged at
4.25 percent.  However, the central ba nk has been putting pressure on banks to
reduce consumer mortgage and credit card lending in order to control the runup
in consumer debt over the past two years.  The recent strength in export growth,which moderated only slightly in N ovember, contributed to an almost
$17 billion trade surplus that month.
IV-28
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP14.4 n.a. 5.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 1.0 n.a. .4 n.a. 2.0 .7 n.a.Unemployment rate
23.7 3.0 3.0 2.9 3.0 3.0 2.8
Consumer prices33.2 3.8 2.5 3.4 2.9 3.4 3.8
Trade balance413.4 n.a. 11.9 n.a. 24.8 17.0 n.a.
Current account58.6 n.a. 2.4 n.a. 16.6 12.8 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Since the last Greenbook, economic conditions in the ASEAN region have
softened further.  Real GDP growth in  Thailand moderated to  4 percent in the
third quarter, as government spending dropped sharply.  I ndustrial production in
the region generally slowed, with data  on the high-tech industry particularly
weak. Apart from the Philippines, the re gion continued to record solid trade
surpluses as a result of declining imports.
Despite world-wide increases in oil prices, inflation in the region remained
moderate.  Indonesia crept closer to achieving single-digit inflation on a
twelve-month basis.  In November, Singapore’s prices increased on a
twelve-month basis for the first time since June 2002.
IV-29
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2000 20012002
Q2 Q3 Sept. Oct. Nov.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 6.9 1.6 6.3 3.1 ... ... ...
Malaysia 6.2 -.6 7.4 6.8 ... ... ...Philippines 3.7 3.9 10.9 -.3 ... ... ...Singapore 11.4 -6.4 13.4 -10.1 ... ... ...Thailand 3.6 2.3 7.2 4.0 ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia311.6 .7 -2.0 -1.2 1.0 .2 n.a.
Malaysia 19.1 -4.1 2.4 3.0 .8 -.3 .1Philippines 2.4 -5.7 5.2 -3.7 1.6 -1.4 n.a.Singapore 15.3 -11.6 9.7 -4.7 -7.1 5.1 -3.7Thailand 3.2 1.3 3.4 3.2 -2.1 1.3 1.3
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Indonesia 25.4 n.a. 24.7 n.a. 25.3 17.8 n.a.
Malaysia 14.2 n.a. 12.8 n.a. 14.5 17.0 n.a.Philippines 2.6 n.a. .2 n.a. .6 -1.5 n.a.Singapore 5.8 8.7 12.0 10.7 3.8 15.3 13.0Thailand 2.5 n.a. 2.7 n.a. 4.6 4.9 n.a.
n.a.  Not available.
IV-30
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20011200212002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Indonesia 12.5 10.0 10.4 10.3 10.3 10.5 10.0
Malaysia 1.2 1.7 2.1 1.8 2.1 1.6 1.7Philippines 4.1 2.6 2.8 2.6 2.7 2.5 2.6Singapore -.6 n.a. -.4 n.a. -.2 .2 n.a.Thailand .8 1.6 .3 1.4 1.4 1.2 1.6
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available
The Chinese economy finished last year with a strong fourth quarter.  The
government has already indicated that real GDP growth reached 8 percent lastyear (although they have not yet released  the official fourth-quarter data). 
Exports rose 30 percent last year, slig htly outpacing the growth of imports,
which were up 28 percent.  In all, th e trade surplus widened by more than
$7 billion in 2002.  Production continued to  expand in the fourth quarter, with
the latest figures showing output growth significantly above th ird-quarter levels. 
Mild deflation persisted through December.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP17.5 n.a. 7.5 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production28.9 11.8 13.1 14.5 14.2 14.5 14.9
Consumer prices2-.3 -.4 -.8 -.6 -.8 -.7 -.4
Trade balance323.1 30.3 10.2 37.7 26.6 34.7 51.8
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
IV-31
After a surge in activity in the third quarter, the Hong Kong economy appears to
have slowed again.  The unemployment ra te did not improve over the past two
months, and deflation continued.  Both  issues have received considerable
attention in the press, and the public is starting to question the effectiveness ofthe economic policies of the governme nt.  Perhaps in response to this,
Chief Executive Tung in an early-January speech emphasized the government’sefforts to stimulate the domestic econom y, indicating that Hong Kong will
continue to pursue an expansionary fis cal policy.  There is some concern about
the fiscal situation, however, with the de ficit likely having exceeded 5 percent of
GDP in 2002.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP1-1.4 n.a. 10.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.9 7.3 7.4 7.2 7.2 7.1 7.2
Consumer prices3-3.5 -1.6 -3.5 -2.9 -3.6 -3.6 -1.6
Trade balance4-11.4 n.a. -9.7 n.a. -10.5 -7.5 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
The Taiwanese economy has been hit hard by slowing production in its critical
high-tech sector.  After declining in  the third quarter, industrial production
continued to fall in the four th quarter, with the output of high-tech goods leading
the decline.  Imports have remained flat  in the fourth quarter, while exports have
risen somewhat.  While this widened th e trade surplus, a lack of growth in
imports of electronic components could indicate future weakness in exports of
electronic products, which rely on these im ported intermediate goods.  Finally, a
base month effect led to a shift from deflation to inflation for Taiwanese
consumer prices in December on a twelve-month basis.  On a month-to-monthbasis (not shown), however, there wa s only a small uptick in prices in
December.
IV-32
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2001 20022002
Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec.
Real GDP1-1.6 n.a. .4 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate24.6 5.2 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.2 5.1
Industrial production -7.3 n.a.  -.4 n.a. -1.2 -.5 n.a.Consumer prices
3-1.7 .8 -.2 -.5 -1.7 -.6 .8
Trade balance415.6 18.1 13.0 20.3 15.2 25.3 20.4
Current account517.9 n.a. 19.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.