Content last modified 05/27/2010.  
  Prefatory Note  
 
The attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
      
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                     April 28, 2004
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                        April 28, 2004
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Domestic Nonfinancial Developments
Overview
The economy appears to have expanded robustly again in the first quarter. Available data are consistent with another quarter of solid growth in consumerspending, and activity in the housing sector has remained high.  Outlays forequipment and software have continued to increase at a vigorous pace even asspending on nonresidential structures have continued to fall.  Output in theindustrial sector expanded solidly in the first quarter.  In the labor market, theoverall employment picture brightened somewhat in March.  Core consumerprices rose 0.4 percent in March; the twelve-month change in the core CPI was1.6 percent, about the same rate of change as a year earlier.
Labor Market Developments 
The labor market has shown additional signs of recovery since the lastGreenbook.  Private payroll employment climbed 277,000 in March, with gainsspread widely across industries.  Construction employment rose smartly, retailtrade employment increased beyond the effect of the end of the supermarketstrikes in California, and employment in both business and nonbusiness servicesexpanded briskly.  For the first quarter as a whole, the average monthly gain inprivate payrolls was 161,000, well above the fourth-quarter average of 58,000. However, the average workweek of production or nonsupervisory workersslipped 0.1 hour in March to 33.7 hours, the level that has persisted on averagesince early 2003.  Thus, despite the pickup in payroll employment, aggregatehours increased at an annual rate of just 1-1/2 percent in the first quarter,slightly below the 2 percent pace in the fourth quarter.
The unemployment rate was 5.7 percent in March, more than 1/2 percentage
point below its peak in June 2003.  However, the decline in the unemploymentrate since last summer likely overstates the reduction in labor market slackbecause the labor force participation rate has also fallen to the unexpectedly lowlevel of 65.9 percent.  The employment-population ratio combines movementsin the unemployment rate and the labor force participation rate; at 62.1 percent,this ratio remains below its level for most of 2003.  In addition, the fraction ofpersons working part-time for economic reasons in March was close to therecent high from the middle of last year.
The sluggishness of the labor market’s recovery through the beginning of this
year appears to have been attributable to anemic hiring rather than to continuedhigh rates of separations.  Although initial claims for unemployment insurancechanged little in the past two months, they had fallen substantially since thespring of last year, suggesting that discharges had declined.  This assessment issupported by data from the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS),which show that the rate of separations moved down considerably between late 
II-2
II-3
II-4
1. The Bureau of Labor Statistics seasonally adjusted the JOLTS data for the first time
earlier this month.  These data cover the pe riod December 2000 to February 2003.  Separations
include quits, layoffs and discharges, retir ements, and transfers to other locations.
2. Utilities production, which accounts for about 10 percent of total IP, declined 2.3 percent
in March as a result of unseasonably warm weather—heating degree days in March were
2.1 standard deviations below normal.2001 and February of this year.1  Meanwhile, both the hiring rate and the rate of
job openings, as measured by JOLTS, remained near their cyclical lows inFebruary.  And although insured unemployment is down, recipients still appearto be exhausting their benefits in large numbers rather than enteringemployment more quickly.
However, the sizable gain in payroll employment in March suggests that the
hiring rate may now be picking up.  Othe r labor market indicators also point to
near-term improvement in hiring conditions.  Manpower Inc.’s survey of firms’hiring plans for the second quarter reached its highest level since 2000; theNational Federation of Independent Businesses has reported a net improvementin hiring plans over the past year; and hiring plans in the National Association ofBusiness Economists (NABE) survey, which had stepped up in the second halfof last year, improved further in the most recent surveys.  In addition,households’ perceptions of current employment conditions, as measured by theConference Board, improved in April to the highest level since mid-2002. Nevertheless, households are less optimistic now about the future of the labormarket than they were at the end of last year.  Both the Michigan survey and theConference Board reported that, in April, households’ expectations of labormarket conditions remained below their year-end levels.
Industrial Production
Although a weather-related decline in utilities production helped push totalindustrial production down 0.2 percent in March, the pace of expansionquickened for the first quarter as a whole.
2  Total IP rose at an annual rate of
6.6 percent in the first quarter, 1 percentage point faster than in the fourthquarter of 2003.
Manufacturing output climbed 5.9 percent last quarter, with gains again spread
widely across both industry and market groups.  The factory operating rateedged up to 75 percent in the first quarter—a level that remains 5 percentagepoints below its 1972–2003 average.  Motor vehicle assemblies were12.2 million units (annual rate) in March, about 1/2 million units slower than inFebruary but still enough to leave first-quarter assemblies about 200,000 unitsabove the fourth-quarter pace.  Excluding motor vehicles, manufacturing IP roseat an annual rate of 5.6 percent last quarter.
II-5
II-6
Production of Domestic Autos and Trucks
(Millions of units at an annual rate except as noted; FRB seasonals)
Item 20032003 2004 2004
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
U.S. production 12.1 12.3 12.2 12.4 12.3 12.7 12.2
Autos 4.5 4.6 4.4 4.4 4.3 4.5 4.4Trucks 7.6 7.7 7.8 8.0 8.0 8.1 7.8
Days’ supply
170 63 68 74 71 72 73
Inventories23.04 2.88 3.04 3.16 3.01 3.06 3.16
Note. Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1. Quarterly and annual values are calculated with end-of-period stocks
and average reported sales; excludes medium and heavy trucks.
2. End-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy trucks.
Production in the high-tech sector of manufacturing rose at an annual rate of
30 percent in the first quarter.  Semiconductor production chalked up a gain of48 percent, and computer production rose 29 percent; in contrast, IP forcommunications equipment barely edged up in the first quarter and was littlechanged from year-ago levels.
Outside of energy, motor vehicles and parts, and high-tech, production at all
stages of processing rose in the first quarter.  The output of finished products,led by a surge in the production of business equipment, moved up at an annualrate of 3-1/2 percent.  Production at the earlier stages of processing—primaryand semifinished—rose 4-1/2 percent, continuing a trend that began in themiddle of last year.  Indexes for both durable and nondurable materials movedup smartly again, as did those for business and construction supplies.
Available weekly physical product data are up slightly, on balance, thus far in
April.  Motor vehicle assemblies are scheduled to edge up in April to an annualrate of 12.4 million units, and production through the first half of the month isrunning a bit above schedules.  Electricity generation has also edged up. However, output in other manufacturing industries for which we have weeklyphysical product data—principally, crude oil and refinery products, iron andsteel, appliances, meat products, and lumber and plywood—has slipped a bit sofar this month.
The forward-looking indicators of nea r-term production point to continued
expansion in the industrial sector in the coming months.  The Institute forSupply Management’s (ISM) diffusion index of new orders remained high inMarch, and the index for new export orders rose significantly.  More recently,the Philadelphia Fed’s new orders index ticked up in April and continued toindicate expansion, and the ISM Semiannual Forecast reported that prospects for 
II-7
II-8
II-9
3. Intel’s first-quarter revenues were a touch below market expectations.  The shortfall was
likely due to heightened competition from AMD,  which reported stronger-than-expected first-
quarter revenues. AMD’s successful 64-bit Opter on chip for high-end servers continues to gain
market share, and the company’s strong sale s of flash-memory have outpaced Intel’s.manufacturing in the remainder of 2004 are bright.  The staff’s series for real
adjusted durable goods orders increased 3.3 percent in March, and its first-quarter average moved up 6-1/2 percent.  In addition, estimates from the Boardstaff’s flow-of-goods system indicate that IP inventories are low in the majority
of industries.  Given continued strong demand, the current low level ofinventories could provide further impetus to near-term production.
New Orders for Durable Goods 
(Percent change from preceding period except as noted; seasonally adjusted)
ComponentProportion,
2003: H2
(percent)2003 2004 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Annual rate Monthly rate
Total orders 100.0 18.4 5.3 -2.6 3.8 3.4
Adjusted orders175.0 19.1 8.9 -1.4 2.8 3.8
Computers 5.0 4.7 -13.3 -8.7 2.4 .0 Communication equipment 4.0 -56.0 -56.4  70.6 9.1 -8.2Other capital goods 23.0 27.7 11.4 -4.5 2.0 4.4Other
243.0 26.0 7.2 -2.1 2.8 4.8
Memo:
Real adjusted orders     . . . 18.0 6.4 -1.6 2.5 3.3
Excluding high tech    . . . 22.9 4.7 -3.5 2.0 4.4
1. Orders excluding defense capital goods, nonde fense aircraft, and motor vehicle parts.
2. Primary metals; most fabricated meta ls; most stone, clay, and glass products;
household appliances; scientific instru ments; and miscellaneous durable goods.
. . .  Not applicable.
In the high-tech sector, orders and shipments of equipment for manufacturing
semiconductors remained high in March, suggesting that chipmakers areexpanding productive capacity.  In addition, Intel’s revenue guidance for thesecond quarter of 2004 points to another respectable increase in semiconductorproduction.
3  For computers and communications equipment, server sales were
especially strong in the first quarter, and CIO Magazine diffusion indexes for
planned spending on computer hardware and data-networking equipment wereup.  Furthermore, a majority of respondents in the NABE Industry Survey forApril expect their firms to increase spending for these types of equipment overthe coming year.
II-10
II-11
4. We re-estimated seasonal factors for thes e series after receiving some additional data
from J.D. Power and Associates.  The picture has changed a bit from what we had previouslyshown.  Seasonally adjusted, incentives now app ear to have been relatively flat, rather than
falling, since the fourth quarter.
5. Nominal sales at building material a nd supply stores, boosted by unusually favorable
weather and a large increase in prices for buildi ng materials, also moved up sharply in March. 
However, sales at these stores are not used in the BEA’s estimates of total personal consumption
expenditures.Motor Vehicles
Sales of light vehicles firmed in March after some softening in the first twomonths of the year, and our industry contacts expect sales in April to improve abit further.  Thus far, the pickup has not been driven by rising sales incentives: The average value of incentives that consumers received ticked down in earlyApril.
4  Nonetheless, attitudes toward car-buying continue to be favorable,
according to the Michigan Survey of Consumer Sentiment.  
Sales of domestically produced light trucks and automobiles slowed in the first
quarter.  With the pace of assemblies up and sales down, days’ supply of lighttrucks ended the quarter at an uncomfortably high level.  Accordingly,manufacturers have scheduled fewer assemblies of light trucks for the secondquarter than in the first quarter.  In contrast, stocks of automobiles ended thequarter in line with historical norms.
Consumer Spending
Real consumer spending appears to have increased in the first quarter at a pacesimilar to the gain in the second half of last year.  Spending is being supportedby expanding wealth, rising wages and salaries, and the continuing effects oflast year’s tax cut.
Nominal spending in the retail control category of goods—which excludes auto
dealers and building material and supply stores—is now estimated to haveincreased 0.6 percent in February and March after having moved up 1.6 percentin January.
5  After accounting for price changes, we estimate that real spending
in the retail control category rose at an annual rate of 6.8 percent in the firstquarter.  Although, as noted above, spending on motor vehicles dropped back inthe first quarter, spending on other goods remained robust.  Real expenditureson services rose 0.5 percent in January largely on the strength of brokerage andenergy services, and they rose 0.3 percent in February (the latest available data)on broad-based gains.  Thus, services appear on track for a solid increase for thequarter as a whole.
The major determinants of consumption look fairly strong.  Equity values and
prices of owner-occupied real estate have increased significantly over the pastyear, lifting the ratio of household net worth to disposable income.  Nominal 
II-12
II-13
II-14
6. In its final report on fourth-quarter GDP, the BEA revised up its estimate of the saving
rate in the second half of last year by 0.1 per centage point, as upward revisions to compensation
in the third and fourth quarters more than offs et upward revisions to consumption.  The annual
revision to retail sales, which will be reflected  in the quarterly GDP estimates when the BEA
publishes its annual revision to the national account s this summer, lowered the level of retail
sales in the fourth quarter by $8 billion.  We es timate that the revised sales data, by themselves,
would add another 0.1 percentage point to th e fourth-quarter saving rate, all else equal.disposable income was boosted in February by an increase in tax refunds and a
decline in final tax payments as well as by solid gains in wages and salaries. Real disposable personal income was 1.0 percent (not an annual rate) higher inFebruary than the fourth-quarter average despite a run-up in energy prices.   Thepersonal saving rate in February, at 1.9 percent, was a bit below its average levelin 2003.
6
Consumer confidence was roughly stable in March and April.  Both theMichigan Survey Research Center’s index of consumer sentiment and theConference Board’s index of consumer confidence remained well above theirlows in early 2003, in keeping with improved fundamentals.
Housing Markets
Housing construction rebounded in March after having slowed in January andFebruary; some of this swing appears to reflect atypical weather patterns. Unusually wet weather in February slowed single-family starts to an annual rateof 1.52 million units, but unseasonably warm and dry weather last month helped boost starts to a rate of 1.60 million units.  Issuance of new permits (adjusted foractivity in areas where permits are not required) is less sensitive to unusualweather and was between 1.54 million and 1.56 million units in each month ofthe first quarter, indicating that the underlying pace of single-familyconstruction has remained consistently high.  In the multifamily sector, startsran up to an annual rate of 408,000 units in March and averaged 383,000 unitsfor the first quarter as a whole.  Starts were elevated relative to permits inMarch, and the vacancy rate for multifamily units reached a record high11.4 percent in the first quarter, suggesting that the recent pace of constructionin this sector probably will not be sustained.
Sales of new homes jumped nearly 9 percent in March to a record 1.23 million
units and were up 4 percent for the first quarter as a whole.  Sales of existinghomes bounced back 5-3/4 percent in March to the second highest figure onrecord, but were nevertheless down 1-1/2 percent for the quarter.  Housingmarket indicators suggest that the demand for housing will continue to hold upwell in the near term. The average rate for thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages inthe first three weeks of April was 5.87 percent, 40 basis points above the near-record low in March; over the same period, the average rate for adjustable-ratemortgages rose about 1/4 percentage point.  Still, the levels of mortgage rates 
II-15
II-16
II-17
II-18
remain low.  The four-week moving average of purchase applications from the
Mortgage Bankers Association moved to a new high in early April, and attitudestoward homebuying, as measured in the preliminary Michigan survey, were nearthe upper end of their range over the past year. 
Home prices continued to rise rapidly.  In the first quarter, the median price for
new homes was 9.8 percent higher than the year-ago level, and the constant-quality price index for new homes—which controls for changes in geographiccomposition, home size, and other amenities—increased 5.8 percent over thesame period, which is toward the upper end of the distribution of price increasesover the past several years.  In the much larger market for existing homes, themedian price in the first quarter was 6.5 percent higher than a year earlier.
Business Fixed InvestmentEquipment and software.  Real outlays for equipment and software appear to
have expanded at a vigorous clip in the first quarter, with the exception ofspending on transportation equipment.  The fundamentals underlying businessinvestment remain favorable:  Business output is rising briskly, corporate cashflows are showing sizable gains, and the user cost of capital remains low, in partbecause of the partial-expensing tax incentive.  In addition, according toanecdotal reports from industry contacts and surveys of business persons,confidence in the durability of the economic expansion is growing.
Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose at an
annual rate of 12.3 percent in the first quarter after a similar increase in thefourth quarter.  In the high-tech sector, shipments of computers and peripheralsfell 3.9 percent in the first quarter, while shipments of communicationsequipment moved up 9.8 percent.  Outside the high-tech categories, shipmentswere up 16.2 percent, continuing the impressive growth seen in this categorysince the middle of last year.  Revenue reports from Microsoft and other majorsoftware vendors indicate that business purchases of software increased at amoderate pace in the first quarter.
The average level of new orders for communications equipment over the past
twelve months exceeded the average level of shipments, suggesting that demandhas firmed somewhat in this beleaguered category.  Outside of high-tech, neworders for capital equipment surged 4.4 percent (not at an annual rate) in March,pushing the level of orders significantly above the level of shipments.  
Business spending on transportation equipment seems to have declined, on
balance, in the first quarter after an outsized jump in the fourth quarter.  A dropin spending on light vehicles more than offset strong demand for medium andheavy trucks, which sold at an annual rate of a little over 400,000 units for thefourth straight month.  Truck orders al so have remained robust, and backlogs 
II-19
II-20
II-21
7. The “other structures” category includes build ings for a wide variety of uses (including
religious, educational, lodging, amusement,  recreation, and transportation purposes).
8. Data on real inventories that incorporate the recent revision to retail inventories have not
yet been published.have continued to climb from a low point reached in early 2003.  Truck demand
is reportedly being supported by investment tax incentives as well as bygenerally greater demand for trucking services.  In addition, industry contactsindicate that replacement demand has been strong.  Nominal shipments ofaircraft moved up in the first two months of the year, and real investment inaircraft appears to have firmed since its low last summer.
Nonresidential construction.   Real business investment in structures
appears to have weakened further in the first quarter.  Nominal spendingon commercial and health care structures—a large sector that includesoffices and other commercial buildings—was 3-1/2 percent (not an annualrate) lower in February than its fourth-quarter average.  Nominal outlaysfor manufacturing facilities were 5 percent lower in February than in thefourth quarter, and investment in other types of nonresidential structureswas down 2-1/2 percent.
7  On a more positive note, nominal expenditures
for power and communication structures were 9-1/2 percent higher inFebruary than the fourth-quarter average, and spending in the drilling andmining category has likely increased in the past few months because of arise in the number of natural gas rigs in operation.
Other indicators of market conditions for nonresidential structures remain
weak.  The vacancy rate for industrial buildings set another new high inthe first quarter, while the vacancy rate for office properties remained quiteelevated.  According to the latest available data, rents for retail propertiesedged up in the fourth quarter, but warehouse rents were flat, and rents foroffice space continued to decline.
Business Inventories
Book-value inventory investment has moved up since the start of the year. Excluding motor vehicles and parts, the manufacturing and trade sector addedinventories at an annual rate of $18 billion in January and $72 billion inFebruary.  However, the sharp rise in the prices of materials in these monthssuggests that the pickup in book-value stocks likely overstates the accumulationof real inventories.
8  Moreover, because of strong growth in sales and
shipments, inventory-sales ratios remain near historical lows in most industries. 
In March, days’ supply in the Board staff’s flow-of-goods system ticked up,
reversing February’s decline, but nevertheless remained low by historicalstandards.  Excluding motor vehicles and parts, the inventory-consumption ratiohas, on balance, continued to trend down since the end of 2001.  The only 
II-22
II-23
II-24
II-25
industries with elevated days’ supply levels are paper and communications
equipment.
Government SectorFederal.  Incoming budget data remain consistent with a substantial widening
of the federal deficit this year.  Although tax collections have firmed somewhatin February and March, this increase in revenues has been more than matchedby a pickup in spending.  
Federal unified budget outlays rose 8 percent in February and March relative to
a year earlier, about 1 percentage point faster than the twelve-month changesrecorded in 2003.  The acceleration reflects the waning effects of lower interestrates on the rise in debt-service costs and a pickup in the pace of spending onMedicaid and Medicare.  Medicaid payments are being elevated by thetemporary increase in the federal match rate that was enacted last year, andMedicare outlays are being lifted, in part, by last year’s legislation thatincreased payment rates to certain health care providers.  Budget outlays arealso being boosted by continued rapid increases in defense spending.  Indeed,the incoming data indicate that real defense expenditures in the NIPA accountsrose at an annual rate of 15 percent in the first quarter.
Receipts in February and March came in 7-1/2 percent above a year earlier, as
gains in both corporate and personal taxable income apparently more than offsetthe effects of last year’s tax cut legislation.  Nevertheless, last year’s legislationhas led to a noticeable step-up in refunds and a reduction in final settlements. Data through mid-April show refunds running 9 percent above year-ago levels. In addition, daily data for April on nonwithheld income taxes and socialinsurance collections, which are largely final settlements, suggest that paymentsare running roughly 8 percent below last year. 
State and local governments.  Indicators of state and local spending in the first
quarter have been mixed.  Employment jumped 32,000 in March after littlechange, on balance, over the first two months of the quarter.  In contrast,construction spending has moved down for five consecutive months, and theFebruary level stood nearly 6 percent below the high recorded last September.
With the economy expanding and revenues strengthening, the states, as a group,
appear to be facing fewer budgetary difficulties than in recent years.  Accordingto the National Conference of State Legislatures, states expect that endingbalances for the current fiscal year as a percentage of general fund expenditureswill rise for the first time since 2000; both rainy day funds and cash on hand areprojected to increase.  Reflecting this improvement, credit rating agencies haveraised state ratings:  For example, Standard & Poor’s has assigned 41 states astable outlook, compared with 34 last year; and 7 states have a negative outlook, 
II-26
II-27
II-28
compared with 13 last year.  With the end of fiscal 2004 just a little more than
two months away, most states are working to nail down their 2005 general fundbudgets.  Despite the recent fiscal strengthening, budgetary pressures stillprevail in some states, where legislators are negotiating another round ofprovisions, including further spending reduc tions, tax hikes, and funds transfers,
to cover prospective shortfalls.  
Prices
A surge in energy prices helped push up consumer price inflation in the firstquarter.  Still, the cumulative increase in the consumer price index during thetwelve months ending in March, at 1.7 percent, was more than 1 percentagepoint lower than in the preceding year.  Excluding food and energy, inflationalso moved up in the early part of this year after very low readings in late 2003;over the twelve months ending in March, the core CPI rose 1.6 percent, similarto the increase a year earlier. 
The run-up in consumer energy prices since the beginning of the year has been
driven by rising crude oil costs and strong demand for gasoline.  The energycomponent of the CPI rose 1.9 percent in March, as another sharp increase ingasoline prices was only partially offset by declines in prices of natural gas andelectricity.  Survey data for April point to a modest further increase in retailgasoline prices, not seasonally adjusted, although less than the seasonal norm. Moreover, the upward pressures on wholesale prices seem to have eased: Inventories of gasoline have risen, on balance, from their trough in mid-March,and wholesale margins have fallen noticeably in recent weeks.  The March dropin residential natural gas prices is not likely to be repeated in April:  Demand forgas from electric utilities has pushed up spot gas prices despite a small recoveryin natural gas inventories.
Consumer prices for food rose 0.2 percent in March, matching February’s
increase.  Although retail prices for beef fell again last month, trade reports notea strong rebound in wholesale prices for beef, suggesting that consumer demandfor beef has held up much better than some observers had feared in the wake ofthe mad cow disease incident.  Price increases for a variety of other food itemsstepped up in the first quarter, most notably fats and oils and cereal and bakeryproducts—likely reflecting robust global demand for crops and poor harvests inthe Southern Hemisphere—and food away from home.  Over the twelve monthsending in March, food prices rose 3.2 percent, a pickup of nearly 2 percentagepoints from the preceding year. Excluding food and energy, the CPI rose 0.4 percent in March.  This jump,which was the largest monthly increase in more than two years, likely overstatesthe trend in inflation.  Some of the noteworthy price increases in Marchfollowed unusually low readings in the same categories in previous months andprobably will not be repeated; examples include a jump of 3.8 percent in the 
II-29
II-30
II-31
volatile category of lodging away from home and a sharp upturn of 0.9 percent
in prices for apparel after four consecutive months of decline.  Nevertheless,prices for a wide range of goods and services—including autos and medicalservices—have recently risen faster than in 2003, bringing the twelve-monthchange in the core CPI back up from the very low readings seen late last year.  
Translation of the available price data into an estimate of core PCE prices points
to an increase of about 0.2 percent in March, which would put the twelve-monthchange in core PCE prices in March at 1.4 percent, the same rate of increase asover the preceding year.
Prices for capital equipment as measured in the producer price index rose 
0.3 percent in March after having been flat in February.  These prices havefluctuated in recent months, largely mirroring monthly swings in prices for newcars and trucks.  For the twelve months ending in March, prices for capitalequipment rose 0.9 percent, a pickup of a little more than 1/2 percentage pointfrom the preceding year.
Industrial commodity prices as measured by the Journal of Commerce index are
up almost 12 percent (not at an annual rate) so far this year after a surge of morethan 20 percent in 2003.  The 18 percent decline in prices for scrap steel sincethe last Greenbook reversed only one-third of the run-up earlier in the year. Moreover, demand for other commodities appears to have remained robust, withfurther increases in prices for forest products, some metals, and mostagricultural commodities.  At later stages of production, price increases havebeen more modest.  In the first three months of the year, producer prices forintermediate materials excluding food and energy rose at an annual rate of8.9 percent, while producer prices for core finished goods rose 2.1 percent.
Median year-ahead expected inflation as measured by the Michigan Survey rose
to 3.0 percent in early April, likely reflecting the run-up in energy prices.  Incontrast, the preliminary report on median expectations over a five- to ten-yearhorizon dropped to 2.5 percent, well below the readings over the past couple ofyears.
II-32
II-33
II-34
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1
Selected Financial Market Quotations
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted)
  Change to Apr. 27 from
2003 2004 selected dates (percentage points)
Instrument 2003 2003 2004
  June 24 Dec. 31 Mar. 15 Apr. 27 June 24 Dec. 31 Mar. 15
Short-term
FOMC intended federal funds rate 1.25 1.00 1.00 1.00 -.25 .00 .00
Treasury bills 1
     3-month 0.81 0.93 0.95 0.97 .16 .04 .02
     6-month 0.82 1.00 1.00 1.15 .33 .15 .15
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates)2
     1-month 0.95 1.00 1.01 1.03 .08 .03 .02
     3-month 0.91 1.05 1.02 1.08 .17 .03 .06
Large negotiable CDs 1
     1-month 0.96 1.06 1.03 1.05 .09 -.01 .02
     3-month 0.93 1.09 1.04 1.10 .17 .01 .06     6-month 0.92 1.16 1.08 1.28 .36 .12 .20
Eurodollar deposits 3
     1-month 0.94 1.04 1.02 1.03 .09 -.01 .01
     3-month 0.91 1.07 1.04 1.09 .18 .02 .05
Bank prime rate 4.25 4.00 4.00 4.00 -.25 .00 .00
Intermediate- and long-term
U.S. Treasury4
      2-year 1.14 1.83 1.55 2.25 1.11 .42 .70     10-year 3.46 4.40 3.91 4.59 1.13 .19 .68
     30-year 4.53 5.22 4.83 5.35 .82 .13 .52
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 1.70 2.00 1.49 2.00 .30 .00 .51
Municipal revenue (Bond Buyer) 54.89 5.04 4.75 5.20 .31 .16 .45
Private instruments
     10-year swap 3.67 4.66 4.11 4.89 1.22 .23 .78
     10-year FNMA63.84 4.72 4.24 4.89 1.05 .17 .65
     10-year AA 74.13 5.05 4.56 5.23 1.10 .18 .67
     10-year BBB 75.16 5.74 5.21 5.81 .65 .07 .60
     5-year high yield 78.95 7.94 7.76 7.92 -1.03 -.02 .16
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 8
     30-year fixed 5.21 5.81 5.41 5.94 .73 .13 .53
     1-year adjustable 3.51 3.73 3.41 3.69 .18 -.04 .28
   Change to Apr. 27 
Record high 2003 2004 from selected dates (percent)
Stock exchange index Record 2003 2004
   Level Date Dec. 31 Mar. 15 Apr. 27 high Dec. 31 Mar. 15
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 10,454 10,103 10,478 -10.62 .23 3.71
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 1,112 1,104 1,138 -25.49 2.36 3.04Nasdaq 5,049 3-10-00 2,003 1,939 2,033 -59.74 1.46 4.81Russell 2000 606 4-5-04 557 567 591 -2.58 6.08 4.20Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 10,800 10,799 11,129 -24.56 3.05 3.06
       1.  Secondary market.
       2.  Financial commercial paper.       3.  Bid rates for eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time.       4.  Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities.       5.  Most recent Thursday quote.       6.  Constant maturity yields estimated from Fannie Mae domestic noncallable coupon securities.       7.  Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data.       8.  For week ending Friday previous to date shown.       _______________________________________________________________________
       NOTES:         June 24, 2003, is the last day before the most recent policy easing.
         March 15, 2004, is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting.       ___________________________________________________________________
Policy Expectations and Treasury Yields
Implied Distribution of Federal Funds Rate
About 6 Months Ahead*
0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00 2.25 2.5004/27/2004 03/15/2004  (FOMC meeting)
0510152025303540Percent
*Based on the distribution of the 3-month eurodollar rate 5 
 months ahead (adjusted for a risk premium), as implied by options 
 on Eurodollar futures contracts.Apr. Aug. Dec. Apr. Aug. Dec. Apr. Aug.
2004 2005 20061.01.52.02.53.03.54.04.5Percent
April 27, 2004
March 15, 2004Expected Federal Funds Rate*
*Estimates from federal funds and Eurodollar futures.
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.
20042.02.22.42.62.83.03.23.4Percent
Apr.
27FOMC
meeting
5 to 10 years ahead
5-yearInflation Compensation*
*Estimates based upon smoothed nominal and inflation-indexed Treasury 
  yield curves.DailyMar. 16 Mar. 22 Mar. 26 Apr. 1 Apr. 6 Apr. 9 Apr. 15 Apr. 21 Apr. 271.61.82.02.22.42.62.8Percent
Retail
salesCPINonfarm
payrollsFOMC
announcementChairman’s
testimonyMarch 2005 Eurodollar Futures Contract Rate*
*5-minute intervals.
1 3 5 7 10 20 30123456 PercentTreasury Yield Curve*
Maturity in years
*Smoothed yield curve estimated from off-the-run Treasury securities.April 27, 2004
March 15, 2004
Domestic Financial Developments
Overview
Data on economic activity and prices received over the intermeeting period were
generally stronger than expected, leading investors to anticipate a tighter stanceof monetary policy.  Treasury coupon yields climbed as much as 80 basis points,reflecting mainly an increase in real interest rates. Yields on investment-gradecorporate bonds rose about in line with those on Treasuries, while yields onspeculative-grade bonds increased more modestly, narrowing their risk spreads. Despite the rise in interest rates, broad equity-market indexes moved higher, asreported and expected earnings continued to strengthen.  Business borrowingpicked up in the first quarter, but it appears to have slackened somewhat inrecent weeks in response to the rise in rates.  Household borrowing is estimatedto have remained robust in the first quarter.
Policy Expectations and Treasury Yields
Stronger-than-expected macroeconomic data released during the intermeeting
period, particularly the employment report in early April, led market participantsto expect that policy tightening will begin sooner than previously anticipated. Quotes on federal funds futures indicate that  investors have now fully priced in a
rate hike of 25 basis points by the August FOMC meeting and place significantodds on rates rising a total of 50 basis points or more by November.  Similarly,recent surveys indicate that a significant fraction of the primary dealersanticipate a rate hike at the August meeting and expect the federal funds rate tobe 50 to 100 basis points higher by year-end.  These surveys also suggest thatmarket participants generally expect the Committee will view inflation risks asbalanced at the upcoming meeting and will drop or modify its reference to“patience” in removing policy accommodation.
In addition to the expectation of an earlier tightening move, the trajectory of
futures rates through the middle of 2006 has steepened, implying that investorsanticipate that policy tightening will proceed at a faster pace once it commences. The upward revisions to the expected policy path since the last FOMC meetingshowed through to Treasury yields, which rose, on balance, 70 to 80 basis pointsacross the two- to ten-year curve.  Yields on inflation-indexed Treasurysecurities climbed slightly less—about 50 to 60 basis points—pointing to asmall increase in inflation compensation.
Stock Prices and Corporate Risk Spreads
Broad equity-price indexes rose about 3 percent, on net, over the intermeeting
period in response to strong earnings reports and positive economic news.  Thestock market rise was tempered somewhat by the upward shift in interest rates,which caused stock prices in some interest-sensitive sectors—such as banks andbrokerage firms, utilities, and REITs—to fall.  
III-2
III-3
The forward earnings-price ratio for the S&P 500 was virtually unchanged over
the intermeeting period, and its spread over a long-run Treasury yield—a roughmeasure of the equity premium—narrowed a little.  Implied volatility of both theS&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 declined slightly, leaving both measures at theirlowest levels since the late 1990s.
While risk spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds were nearly unchanged,
spreads on speculative-grade bonds declined about 65 basis points, reversing therun-up that had occurred over the previous intermeeting period.  Risk spreads oncommercial paper remained quite low.
Corporate Earnings and Credit Quality
With nearly 300 of the S&P 500 firms having reported for the first quarter,
earnings per share for the S&P 500 appears to have increased almost 25 percentfrom its year-ago level.  Market analysts continue to revise up theirtwelve-month forward-earnings forecasts, with the revisions index rising to avery high level in April.  Expectations for long-term earnings growth inched upfurther in March and April, continuing the turnaround that began in late 2003and ending the three-year slide in analysts’ views on long-term prospects.
Corporate credit quality continued to improve over the intermeeting period. 
Bond downgrades, measured as the share of the par value of outstanding bonds,declined further in the first quarter and were almost matched by bond upgrades. With no defaults registered in February and defaults in March low, thesix-month moving average of the realized bond default rate dropped further. The KMV expected year-ahead default rate based on firm-specific measuresdeclined a shade in both February and March.
Business Finance
Gross issuance of investment-grade bonds by nonfinancial corporations spiked
in March, as firms apparently responded to the lower yields that followed theemployment report released on March 5
th.  With the recent backup in yields,
offerings by these firms have slowed considerably in April.  In contrast,speculative-grade issuance has remained robust in March and April, with theproceeds largely being used to repay other debt.  Outstanding commercial paperand C&I loans fell in March; however, over the first few weeks of April, bothhave registered small increases.  The recent uptick in C&I loans is consistentwith reports from the April Senior Loan Officer Survey that banks have easedC&I loan standards on net and that demand for these loans has picked up. Overall, net debt financing was about zero in March but appears to haveincreased thus far in April.
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
Gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms moved up in March on the
strength of a couple of large seasoned equity offerings that were reportedlyrelated to acquisitions and capital expenditures.  So far in April, gross issuancehas waned, reflecting a slowdown in seasoned offerings and a continuedsluggish pace of initial public offerings.  Total equity issuance by nonfinancialfirms continues to be outweighed by equity retirements.  Many firms aremaintaining their use of share repurchases as a way to distribute strong earningsto shareholders.  Although equity retirements from cash mergers remainsubdued, they are expected to increase given the pickup in announcements ofnew M&A deals so far this year.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial mortgage debt growth moved up in the first quarter to an estimated
10 percent pace, as both CMBS issuance and real estate lending by banks werestrong.  Delinquency rates on commercial mortgages at banks and insurersremained low through the end of 2003, and CMBS delinquencies—which hadmoved higher through late last year—have flattened over the past severalmonths.  CMBS yields rose over the intermeeting period, with spreads littlechanged.  However, REIT equity prices have tumbled about 12 percent since theMarch FOMC meeting, in response to recent increases in interest rates andperhaps to concerns expressed by some investors that commercial real estatemay be overvalued.   
Household Finance
Interest rates on thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages climbed about 50 basis points
over the intermeeting period.  Refinancing applications have declined in April asrates have increased, although refinancing originations, which lag applications,have not yet fallen off.  Originations for home purchases have continued to rise. Home mortgage debt is estimated to have grown at a rapid pace of10-3/4 percent in the first quarter.
Consumer credit expanded at an estimated 4-1/2 percent rate in the first quarter,
a little above the previous quarter’s pace.  On the whole, indicators of consumercredit quality have shown some improvement this year.  Delinquencies on creditcards in securitized pools have declined, household bankruptcy filings havemoved down to slightly below their year-ago levels, and delinquencies on autoloans at captive finance companies have remained low.
Although data on household assets in the first quarter are still incomplete, the
modest rise in stock prices together with a larger estimated increase indisposable income suggest that the ratio of household assets to income most
III-8
III-9
III-10
III-11
1. At this point, the key piece of missing da ta for first quarter is the OFHEO repeat-
transactions house price index, which will not be released until early June.likely ticked down but remained above the year-ago level.1  Through April,
incoming mutual fund data indicate that households have continued to investheavily in equity mutual funds.
State and Local Government Finance
Gross municipal bond issuance bounced back in March, as states and
municipalities ramped up their borrowing for transportation projects and healthcare facilities.  In addition, the volume of advance refunding issues posted aparticularly large gain in March, in response to the dip in yields.  Gross issuancehas been lower in April, with new capital issuance weakening a little andadvance refunding issues falling off noticeably.
Yields on longer-term general obligation municipal bonds rose in line with
comparable Treasuries over the intermeeting period, leaving themuni-to-Treasury yield ratio unchanged on net.  The risk spread betweenAAA-rated and BBB-rated revenue bonds remained volatile over the period butposted little net change and remained well below the high of last year.  In areversal of a two-year trend, upgrades of municipal bonds have outpaceddowngrades since early February.  As a result, municipal bond upgrades anddowngrades are nearly balanced thus far this year.
Treasury Finance
Net issuance of marketable debt by the Treasury surged to $146 billion in the
first quarter—the largest quarterly total on record.  Moreover, incoming taxreceipts in April have been somewhat lighter than the Treasury expected,pushing up the government’s anticipated financing needs in the second quarter. Over the intermeeting period, the Treasury conducted auctions of two- andfive-year nominal notes and a ten-year in flation-indexed note.  Investor demand
at the auctions was mixed.
Investors continued to focus on the participation of foreign official institutions
in the Treasury market.  Indirect bidding at Treasury auctions, which includesbidding by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on behalf of foreigninstitutions, remained strong.  However, in light of the sharp fall-off in Japanesecurrency intervention, market chatter centered on whether the pace of foreignofficial purchases would decline going forward.
Agency Finance
Net borrowing by the housing GSEs continued to be quite light.  For the most
part, investors seemed unmoved by the ongoing debate over regulatory reform
III-12
III-13
and the questions raised about Fannie Mae’s accounting practices.  Yield
spreads on most Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac debt securities narrowed a touch,on balance, over the intermeeting period, but equity prices for the two GSEsmoved down.
The Senate Banking Committee approved a bill that would create a new
regulator for the housing GSEs that would have the ability to place those entitiesinto receivership if they were to become financially distressed.  However, thecurrent bill would require that the Congress not object to such an action.  Thecurrent version of the bill is unlikely to be enacted, in part because theAdministration opposes this provision.
Money and Bank Credit
M2 continued to recover from its extraordinary weakness in late 2003, growing
about 9 percent in March and April. Mortgage refinancing appears to haveboosted M2 growth in both months. Liquid deposits have again driven most ofthe advance in M2, although growth in currency has moved closer to itslong-term trend in April after a weak first quarter.
Bank loans increased smartly in March and April; the growth was led primarily
by increases in residential and commercial real estate lending.  The April SeniorLoan Officer Opinion Survey reported a noticeable pickup in demand forcommercial real estate loans compared with three months earlier but indicatedthat demand for residential loans had weakened a little. 
First-quarter earnings reports by several large bank holding companies show
continued strong profitability.  In particular, loss provisions shrank withimprovements in credit quality, while non-interest income expanded, reflectingin part increased fees from trading and asset management.
III-14
III-15
Appendix
April 2004 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey
The April 2004 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices
addressed changes in the supply of, and demand for, bank loans to businesses and
households over the past three months.  In addition, the survey contained a series ofquestions on residential real estate loans and a question on changes in banks’ pricing
and investment behavior in light of dec lining net interest margins.  Responses were
received from fifty-two domestic and ni neteen foreign banking institutions.
Both domestic banks and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks indicated that
they had eased lending standards and terms for C&I loans over the past three months. Domestic banks also eased lending standards on commercial real estate loans over thesame period, while standards at foreign ins titutions were little changed.  The share of
domestic banks reporting stronger demand fo r C&I loans in the April survey was
notably larger than in the January survey .  Demand for commercial real estate loans at
domestic banks also strengthened on net.  By contrast, foreign institutions reported
weaker C&I loan demand, on net, and indicated that demand for commercial real estateloans had not changed.
In the April survey, a small net frac tion of domestic banks reported having eased
lending standards on residential real estate lo ans, but standards and terms for consumer
loans were generally unchanged.  On net, demand for residential real estate loans was
little changed, while demand for c onsumer loans had strengthened.
Lending to Businesses
Both domestic and foreign banks reported having eased le nding standards on C&I loans
over the past three months.  About 20 percen t of domestic banks, on net, indicated that
they had eased standards for large and middl e-market firms, the largest share doing so
since the beginning of the 1990s, and a similar fraction noted having eased standardsfor small firms.  The net share of U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks that
reported having eased lending standards for C&I loans jumped to 32 percent in theApril survey, up from 10 percent in the January survey.
Both domestic and foreign institutions also indicated that they had eased many terms on
C&I loans over the past three months.  On net, almost 40 percent of domestic banksreported having narrowed spreads of loan rat es over their cost of funds for large and
middle-market borrowers in April, up from 27 percent in the previous survey, and
26 percent had done so for small firms.  About 37 percent of foreign institutions
indicated that they had reduced spreads on their C&I loans, up notably from 14 percent
in January.  Survey respondents, on net,  continued to report having eased terms on
credit lines, both by increasing the maximum size of these lines and by reducing theircost.  Furthermore, about one-fourth of bot h domestic and foreign banks said that they
had eased loan covenants over the past three months.  
More than 80 percent of the banks that reported having eased standards and terms on
C&I loans in the April survey cited more  aggressive competition from other banks or
nonbank lenders as the most important r eason for having done so, roughly the same
percentage as in the previous survey.  Do mestic banks that had eased standards and
III-A-2
terms also pointed to a more favorable economic outlook and improvements in
industry-specific problems, as well as an incr eased tolerance for risk.  The few domestic
banks that had tightened standards or te rms generally cited a less favorable economic
outlook or a reduced tolerance for risk.
C&I loan demand.   On net, 29 percent of domestic banks reported in the April survey
that the demand for C&I loans from large and middle-market borrowers had increased,
the largest share doing so since 1998.  About 40 percent reported stronger demand fromsmall firms.  Furthermore, about half of domestic respondents noted increased inquiriesfrom potential business borrowers.  Domestic banks that had experienced an increase in
demand pointed to greater customer financing needs for inventories and accountsreceivable as well as for investment in plant and equipment.  By contrast, foreign banks,on net, reported decreased demand for C&I loans and indicated that customerborrowing had shifted to other banks or nonba nk lenders and that customers’ internally
generated funds had increased. 
Commercial real estate lending.  In the April survey, 10 percent of domestic banks,
on net, said that they had eased lending standards on commercial real estate loans, up abit from the previous survey.  The per centage of domestic banks reporting increased
demand for these loans also increased in the current survey, rising to 23 percent, up
from 16 percent in January.  At foreign in stitutions, both commercial real estate lending
standards and loan demand were  reportedly unchanged on net.  
Lending to Households
In the April survey, demand for residentia l real estate loans was little changed on net.
Lending standards for residential real estat e loans had been eased over the past three
months by about 10 percent of respondent s, on net, up somewhat from the previous
survey.  
The April survey asked banks about house pri ce appreciation over the past year in the
markets they served.  The responses were fairly diverse: About one-fourth of therespondents indicated that the average rate  of increase had been less than 5 percent,
around half of them reported that the grow th rate had been between 5 percent and
10 percent, and the rest pointed to home price appreciation of more than 10 percent. Regarding the future, the banks expected price increases to moderate: About 60 percent
of the banks expected home prices to grow less than 5 percent over the next year in themarkets they serve, and almost all the rest expected appreciation of 5 percent to10 percent.
The April survey also contained several questions about loan-to-value ratios for
residential mortgage loans.  Banks reporte d that about 85 percent of the first-lien
mortgages that they originated over the past year had loan-to-value ratios below
90 percent, and only 2 percent had ratios of  100 percent or more.  About 80 percent of
the volume of second-lien mortgages and home equity loans that respondents hadoriginated over the past year were to custom ers with a ratio of total mortgage debt to
home value below 90 percent.  Only 5 percent were to customers with indebtednessratios of 100 percent or more.  Banks that had originated loans in areas where homeprices had been rising relatively quickly tended to have originated more loans,
III-A-3
especially second-lien and home equity loans,  with lower loan-to-value ratios than
banks that operated in markets with slower  appreciation.  Indeed, at banks serving
markets in which home prices rose 5 percent or less, 8 percent of second-lien mortgageand home equity loan originations were to borrowers with ratios of total mortgage debt
to home value of 100 percent or more and 74 percent of originations were to borrowers
with ratios of 90 percent or less.  By comparison, at banks originating loans in areaswhere homes had appreciated between 10 percent and 20 percent, these shares were1 percent and 88 percent respectively. 
In April, banks continued to indicate, on net, that they had become more willing to
make consumer installment loans, although they reported that lending standards and
most lending terms for consumer loans were basically unchanged.  Banks did, however,
report having reduced the extent to which c onsumer loans other than credit card loans
were granted to customers who did not meet credit-scoring thresholds.  Of therespondents, 22 percent reported that dema nd for consumer loans of all types had
strengthened over the past three months.  By contrast, in the January survey, 13 percentof respondents, on net, indicated that demand had weakened.
Net Interest Margins
Special questions in the April survey asked banks how they had changed their
investment and pricing behavior in response to the historically low level of short-term
interest rates and to resulting pressure on their net interest margins.  On net, domesticbanks indicated that these factors had not le d them to change their desired levels of
either credit risk or interest rate risk.  However, 21 percent of domestic banks, on net,
indicated that they had increased fees ch arged to borrowers and depositors.  About
20 percent of foreign banks, on net, reported that they had taken on more credit risk.
III-A-4
III-A-5
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S. International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The U.S. international trade deficit in February narrowed from January's record
high to $42.1 billion, its lowest level since November of last year. 
The value of exports of goods and services increased 4 percent in February, as
services receipts rose 1.4 percent and exports of goods rose 5.1 percent fromJanuary levels.  The rise in exported goods was widespread across majorcategories of goods, with the largest increases in industrial supplies, aircraft, andother capital goods.  At an annual rate, the average for January and February ofthe value of exported goods and services was about 4 percent above the averagefor the fourth quarter of last year.  The increase was concentrated in industrialsupplies and other capital goods, although exports of automotive products andconsumer goods also rose.  Exports of agricultural goods, in contrast, fell,
reflecting declines in exports of meats, partly owing to foreign bans on theimport of U.S. beef, and soybeans.
The value of imports of goods and services rose 1.6 percent in February. 
Services payments rose 1.3 percent, and imports of goods increased 1.7 percentfrom January levels.  Within goods, imports of industrial supplies rose sharply;imports of automotive products also contributed to the overall increase.  Importsof aircraft, computers, and consumer goods, however, fell.  Oil imports rose   3.8 percent, with increases in both volume and price.  At an annual rate, theaverage for January and February of the value of imported goods and serviceswas about 9 percent above the average for the fourth quarter of last year, a muchslower pace than the 17 percent fourth-quarter rise.  The increase was driven
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
largely by increases in imports of oil, industrial supplies, and other capital
goods.  Imports of aircraft, automotive products, and consumer goods fell.
Prices of Internationally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In March, the prices of U.S. imports of non-oil goods and of
core goods rose 0.2 and 0.3 percent, respectively.  After a 1.7 percent increase inFebruary, the price index for industrial supplies excluding oil rose another      1.1 percent in March, reflecting further price increases for building materialsand unfinished metals.  Prices for foods, feeds and beverages rose 0.8 percent inMarch, largely because of higher prices for imported seafood.  Prices of capitalgoods (excluding computers and semiconductors) and automotive products bothedged up 0.1 percent.  Prices for consumer goods were unchanged.  Prices forcomputers and semiconductors fell 0.4 and 0.1 percent, respectively.  Theaverage level of imported core goods prices in the first quarter was about        7¼ percent at an annual rate above the fourth-quarter level of last year; this isthe largest percentage increase on a quarterly basis since the fourth quarter of1988.  Much of this increase was concentrated in the commodity-intensivecategories of industrial supplies and foods, feeds and beverages. 
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose 6.1 percent in March, similar to the
increase in the spot price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil, whichaveraged $36.75 per barrel.  After falling to less than $35 per barrel at thebeginning of April, the spot price of WTI rebounded and has averaged about$36.60 per barrel so far this month.  Oil prices remained elevated because ofstrong oil demand, fueled by the recovery in world economic activity, OPEC’sdecision to cut its production target by 1 million barrels per day, andgeopolitical concerns regarding Iraq and Venezuela.
Exports.   In March, the prices of U.S. exports of total goods and of core goods
both increased 0.9 percent.  The price index for agricultural products rose       3.3 percent, reflecting higher prices for soybeans and corn.  Higher prices forexported metals and chemicals contributed to the 1.7 percent increase innonagricultural industrial supplies.  The price indexes for all other categories ofcore goods were basically unchanged.  Prices of exported computers andsemiconductors rose 0.8 and 0.6 percent, respectively.  The average level ofexported core goods prices in the first quarter was about 8½ percent at an annualrate above the fourth-quarter level of last year, the highest pace of increase sincethe first quarter of 1995.  Nearly all of the increase reflected higher prices foragricultural products and industrial supplies. 
U.S. International Financial Transactions
Private foreign net purchases of U.S. securities (line 4 of the Summary of U.S.
International Transactions table) continued at a strong pace in February. Inflows into Treasury securities (line 4a) and corporate bonds (4c) accelerated
IV-6
from already strong flows in January.  Foreign demand for agency securities
(line 4b) appears to have recovered from last year’s dip: private net purchasestotaled about $30 billion in the first two months of 2004, compared with netsales of $48 billion last year.  Foreign purchases of equities (line 4d) slowedsomewhat from January’s vigorous pace to $5 billion.  A little over half of theinflow into equities in February reflected a merger-related stock swap.  Theseswaps are not directly captured in the monthly TIC data and are oftenoverlooked in press reports.  
Net foreign official inflows (line 1) were $30 billion in February, a bit of an
easing from the remarkable $48 billion recorded in January, but well above theaverage monthly inflow in 2003.   Net fo reign official inflows are on track to
register a record increase in the first quarter, as partial data from the FederalReserve Bank of New York indicate that foreign official reserves in custody
there increased by another $18 billion during March.  The majority of foreignofficial inflows continue to come fr om Japan.  FRBNY custody data indicate
that Japanese inflows, which were especially large in the first half of March,remained strong through mid-April.  Foreign official demand for agencysecurities also appears to have recovered this year, as official net purchases ofagencies totaled $10 billion in January and February, compared with $25 billionfor all of 2003.     
U.S. investors made modest net purchases of foreign securities in February (line
5), following sizable purchases in January.  As in January, net purchases offoreign equities (line 5b) more than offset net sales of foreign debt (line 5a).  Inboth months U.S. residents’ equity purchases were concentrated in Japan.
The highly volatile banking sector (line 3) saw a net outflow in February,
reversing much of the inflow recorded in January.  As is typical for the bankingdata, much of the monthly swing reflected a shifting of inter-bank fundingpositions, primarily against affiliated offices in Caribbean banking centers.
IV-7
IV-8
Foreign Financial Markets
The exchange value of the dollar, as measured by the major currencies index,
rose 1¾ percent on net over the intermeeting period.  The index declined in thefirst two weeks following the March FOMC meeting but rose in early April. Market participants attributed the dollar’s gain in April to releases ofstronger-than-expected U.S. economic data, particularly the March employmentreport, and to speculation that the FOMC may tighten policy sooner than hadpreviously been anticipated.  
The dollar appreciated 3 percent on net against the euro and 2½ percent against
the Canadian dollar over the intermeeting period.  In contrast, the dollardepreciated almost 1 percent against the yen in highly volatile trading.  Thedollar depreciated 6 percent against the yen in the first two weeks following theMarch FOMC meeting.  The dollar’s movement against the yen appeared tocoincide with a Nikkei news report that the Bank of Japan was “weighing anexit strategy for its yen-weakening market interventions.”  The Japanesemonetary authorities have, in fact, not intervened in the currency market sinceMarch 16.  Since early April, the dollar has almost fully rebounded from itsearlier decline against the yen.
IV-9
Long-term benchmark yields moved up 23 to 51 basis points in major foreign
industrial countries, less than the 63-basis-point rise in the ten-year Treasuryyield.  Much of the change occurred in early April following the March U.S.employment report.  Interest rates at the three-month tenor moved little over theintermeeting period in the major industrial countries, except in Canada and theUnited Kingdom.  The Bank of Canada cut its policy rate 25 basis points onApril 13.  Although the policy decision had been anticipated, marketparticipants interpreted the accompanying statement as being more bullish thanhad been expected, and medium- and long-term Canadian interest rates rosefollowing the decision.  The Bank of England left its monetary policy stanceunchanged, surprising some market participants who were expecting a 25-basis-point tightening.  Market participants are currently pricing in a 25-basis-pointincrease at the next meeting of the Bank of England’s Monetary PolicyCommittee on May 6.  As had been widely expected, the European Central Bankand the Bank of Japan left their respective monetary policy stances unchangedduring the intermeeting period.
IV-10
Since the March FOMC meeting, broad share price indexes in most major
industrial economies have risen 1 to 7 percent, with the Japanese marketregistering the largest gain.  Better-than-expected Japanese economic data werecited as factors supporting the gain in the Japanese equity market.
Over the intermeeting period, the dollar gained ½ percent on a trade-weighted
basis against the currencies of our other important trading partners.  TheMexican peso depreciated 3 percent against the dollar; Mexican share pricesrose 8¼ percent.  The central bank of Mexico unexpectedly tightened its policystance on April 27, citing declines in the 28-day Cetes rate after the bank leftpolicy unchanged at its previous biweekly policy-setting meeting on April 23. The bank noted that a decrease in rates was incompatible with its stated goalsfor inflation.  The Brazilian central bank cut its policy rate 25 basis points twiceover the intermeeting period.  Brazil’s EMBI+ spread over Treasuries roseabout 80 basis points, in part on concerns about the Brazilian government’s
IV-11
ability to achieve fiscal austerity.  The Brazilian real was little changed on net
against the dollar.  The exchange value of  the dollar against the currencies of the
emerging Asian economies has changed little on net since the March FOMCmeeting.
  
  .  The Desk did not intervene during the period for the accounts of theSystem or the Treasury.
IV-12
Developments in Foreign Industrial Countries
Indicators for the first quarter suggest continued growth in the industrial
countries, but at a more moderate rate than that of late last year.  In Japan, strongexports and a marked increase in business sentiment point toward continuedgrowth, although recent readings on several other indicators have beensomewhat less buoyant.  In Canada, growth appears to have slowed from thebrisk inventory-led pace of the fourth quarter, notwithstanding some firming in
consumer expenditures, while evidence points to still sluggish growth in theeuro area.  In the United Kingdom, the preliminary GDP release for the firstquarter showed growth softening a bit from its rapid fourth-quarter pace, buthousing prices have continued to move up.  
Consumer price inflation remained low.  Twelve-month headline inflation in
Canada fell under the 1 percent lower bound of the Bank of Canada’s inflationtarget band in February and March.  Inflation in the euro area remained belowthe ECB’s 2 percent ceiling in March, while in the United Kingdom inflationslipped further below the Bank of England’s 2 percent inflation target.  SlightCPI deflation persisted in Japan. 
In early April, the Bank of Canada eased monetary policy for the third time this
year, citing the need to support aggregate demand. 
In Japan , indicators suggest that the economy continued to expand in the first
quarter, albeit at a more moderate pace than last year.  Real exports rose 2.2percent for the quarter, while real imports increased slightly.  Householdexpenditures posted solid gains in January and February on average, and newcar registrations jumped during the first quarter.  Industrial production edged upin March, bringing average production for the first quarter 0.3 percent above thefourth-quarter level.  The broader a ll-industries index of output was flat in
January and February on average compared with the fourth-quarter, as servicessector output edged down.  Core machinery orders, a leading indicator ofbusiness fixed investment, declined sharply in January and rebounded onlymoderately in February following hefty increases late last year
Recent readings on labor market conditions have been mixed.  In February, the
unemployment rate remained at 5 percent.  The job-offers-to-applicants ratio, aleading indicator of employment, was unchanged, but remained at a ten-yearhigh.  Core consumer goods prices in the Tokyo area (which exclude fresh foodbut include energy) rose 0.1 percent in March from the previous month but weredown 0.1 percent from a year earlier.  Wholesale prices were up 0.2 percent inMarch compared with the same month a year ago, the first increase on atwelve-month basis since July 2000.  Average nationwide land prices were
IV-13
down 5.6 percent in January from a year ago, though prices in parts of Tokyo
have stopped falling. 
The Bank of Japan's Tankan index of business conditions rose in March, with
the level of the aggregate diffusion index for business sentiment among firms ofall sizes and across all industries increasing to -5 from -11 in December.  Theclosely-watched index for large manufacturers improved to 12 from 7 inDecember.  The strengthening in the aggregate index in March was broadlybased, with increases for both manufacturers and non-manufacturers across allfirm sizes, suggesting that economic recovery is gradually spreading fromexport-related industries to other sectors.
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003 2004 2003 2004
Q3 Q4 Q1 Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
Industrial production11.0 3.9 .3 -.6 2.9 -3.8 .1
All-industries index .0 1.7 n.a. .1 2.3 -3.8 n.a.Housing starts -6.5 4.9 n.a. 8.3 2.7 -6.4 n.a.Machinery orders
2-2.9 11.3 n.a. 8.1 -12.2 4.9 n.a.
Machinery shipments32.5 7.6 n.a. 2.2 2.6 -6.4 n.a.
New car registrations 2.5 -2.2 13.5 2.1 18.7 -5.5 1.1Unemployment rate
45.2 5.1 n.a. 4.9 5.0 5.0 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.65 .73 n.a. .77 .77 .77 n.a.
Business sentiment6-21.0 -15.0 n.a. ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-.3 -.1 -.2 -.1 -.3 -.2 -.1
Wholesale prices7-.7 -.4 .0 -.2 -.1 .0 .2
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, excluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
In the euro area , economic indicators for the first quarter were mixed,
indicative of continued sluggish growth.  Industrial production in January andFebruary was on average slightly below the fourth-quarter level.  German
IV-14
industrial production unexpectedly posted its first drop in five months in
February, whereas French industrial production rose 0.8 percent after falling0.5 percent the previous month.  The volume of retail trade in the euro area fellby 0.8 percent in February, partially reversing a sharp increase in January.  Thepurchasing manager’s index (PMI) for the euro-area manufacturing sector rosein March, while the PMI for services fell.
Survey measures for April point towards increased optimism in the second
quarter.  The German IFO business climate index rose in April, reversing mostof its March decline. The Belgian business confidence index rose in bothmonths. An evaluation of the IFO responses received before and after theMarch 11 terrorist attack in Madrid did not reveal any differences.  Italianconsumer confidence had declined in the days of polling that took placeimmediately after the Madrid bombing, but in April the index rebounded tolevels close to those prior to the attack.
Twelve-month consumer price inflation rose slightly in March to 1.7 percent,
remaining below the ECB’s 2 percent target ceiling.  Core inflation, excludingenergy, food, alcohol, and tobacco was 1.8 percent in March.
IV-15
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003 2004 2003 2004
Q3 Q4 Q1 Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
Industrial production1.6 .9 n.a. .1 -.3 .1 n.a.
Retail sales volume2-.1 -.2 n.a. .2 2.3 -.8 n.a.
Unemployment rate38.8 8.8 n.a. 8.8 8.8 8.8 n.a.
Consumer confidence4-17.3 -16.0 -14.3 -16.0 -15.0 -14.0 -14.0
Industrial confidence4-11.0 -7.3 -6.7 -8.0 -6.0 -7 -7
Mfg. orders, Germany 1.1 3.7 n.a. 1.9 -1.2 .5 n.a.CPI
52.0 2.0 1.7 2.0 1.9 1.6 1.7
Producer prices51.2 1.1 n.a. 1.0 .3 .0 n.a.
M357.6 7.0 n.a. 7.0 6.5 6.3 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Excludes motor vehicles.3. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO de finition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.n.a.  Not available.
Real GDP in the United Kingdom  expanded 2.6 percent in the first quarter
according to the preliminary estimate, with a wide divergence in performanceacross sectors.  Industrial production is estimated to have fallen around2 percent, with only energy output rising slightly.  However, service sectoroutput climbed more than 3 percent.  In particular, output of the retail servicesand the hotels and restaurants sectors grew strongly.  April's industrial survey,suggests expansion in the manufacturing sector, though the survey and actualdata have diverged in recent months.  Business confidence fell in April, butremained relatively high.
According to the two leading private surveys, housing price inflation has picked
up in recent months, with the average twelve-month rise at around 18 percent inMarch.  Household net mortgage and consumer borrowing in Februaryremained elevated.
IV-16
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003 2004
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.
Real GDP* 3.4 3.7 2.6 ... ... ... ...
Industrial production .0 -.1 n.a. -.1 -.6 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume11.2 1.7 2.0 1.2 .0 .6 n.a.
Unemployment rate2
      Claims-based 3.1 3.0 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 n.a.
      Labor force survey35.0 4.9 n.a. 4.8 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence4-3.3 -.3 16.7 21.0 14.0 15.0 12.0
Consumer confidence5-5.0 -3.3 -2.3 -3.0 -2.0 -2.0 n.a.
Consumer prices61.4 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.1 n.a.
Producer input prices71.2 2.9 -.3 -.3 -1.6 .9 n.a.
Average earnings73.6 3.5 n.a. 7.4 4.0 n.a. n.a.
*   s.a.a.r.
      1. Excludes motor vehicles. 
2. Percent.3. Three-month average centered on month shown.4. Percentage of firms expecting output to incr ease in the next four months less percentage 
expecting output to decrease.
5. Average of the percentage balance from c onsumers’ expectations of their financial 
situation, general economic situation, unempl oyment, and savings over the next 12 months.
6. Consumer prices index (CPI). Percent change from year earlier.7. Percent change from year earlier.n.a.  Not available.
      ...    Not applicable.
The labor market continued to be tight, as both the official-claims-based and the
labor-force-survey measures of the unemployment rate remained near theirlowest points since 1975.  The twelve-month CPI inflation rate slipped furtherto 1.1 percent in March and is well below the Bank of England’s 2 percenttarget.
The government released a new budget plan on March 17, leaving unchanged
the projection for Public Sector Net Borrowing (PSNB) for 2003-04 at £37½billion (almost 3½ percent of GDP) and revising up slightly the projection for2004-05 and 2005-06 to £33 billion and £31 billion (2.8 and 2.5 percent ofGDP, respectively).  The government reaffirmed its expectation that real GDPwill expand 3 to 3½ percent in both 2004 and 2005.
IV-17
In Canada , a sharp gain in retail sales in January and February indicates that
domestic demand firmed in the first quarter.  However, a corresponding declinein February wholesale trade implies that retailers are running down thesubstantial inventories accumulated at the end of last year, suggesting thatinventories are likely to make a negative contribution to growth.   
Other indicators for the first quarter were mixed.  Housing starts decreased
3 percent in the first quarter, as colder-than-usual weather depressedconstruction in January and February; however, starts bounced back to theirsecond-highest level in 16 years in March.  Employment fell in both Februaryand March, leading to a small increase in the unemployment rate.  While bothexports and imports increased in February, following declines in January. 
In March, the twelve-month rate of headline CPI inflation remained at
0.7 percent, as energy base effects had a substantial negative impact.  Twelve-month core inflation, excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes, edged up to1.1 percent.
On April 13, the Bank of Canada lowered the targeted overnight rate (its key
policy rate) and the Bank Rate 25 basis points each, to 2 percent and 2¼percent, respectively.  The Bank stated that it expected output to return to itspotential level by the third quarter of 2005 and inflation to reach the 2 percentmid-point of the Bank's 1 to 3 percent target band by the end of 2005.
The government released a new budget on March 23, outlining a small increase
in spending, primarily directed towards increased transfers to provinces andmunicipalities, but maintaining projected budget surpluses over the next threeyears.
IV-18
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003 2004 2003 2004
Q3 Q4 Q1 Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
GDP by industry .5 1.0 n.a. .5 -.1 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production .3 1.6 n.a. 1.2 -.4 n.a. n.a.New mfg. orders 1.2 -.1 n.a. 2.4 2.5 -.8 n.a.Retail sales 1.0 -1.2 n.a. -1.4 1.7 2.3 n.a.Employment .2 .9 .3 .3 .1 -.1 -.1Unemployment rate
17.9 7.5 7.4 7.4 7.4 7.4 7.5
Consumer prices22.1 1.7 .9 2.0 1.2 .7 .7
Core Consumer Prices2,31.7 1.7 1.2 1.5 1.4 1.0 1.1
Consumer attitudes4122.0 n.a. n.a. ... ... ... ...
Business confidence4127.2 n.a. n.a. ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes.4. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-19
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2003 2004
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Japan
Trade 87.2 114.1 120.7 117.2 133.0 111.8
Current account 145.3 156.4 n.a. 190.3 189.6 n.a.
Euro area
Trade1133.3 98.6 n.a. 27.9 82.4 n.a.
Current account151.9 88.4 n.a. -67.2 87.3 n.a.
Germany
Trade 172.8 155.8 n.a. 213.1 181.0 n.a.Current account
144.6 92.9 n.a. -10.0 76.7 n.a.
France
Trade .7 .7 n.a. 1.7 -.2 n.a.Current account 1.3 -.3 n.a. -.9 3.2 n.a.
Italy
Trade 1.7 3.0 n.a. -10.8 -3.7 n.a.Current account
16.5 -22.2 n.a. -43.1 -15.0 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -76.2 -85.9 n.a. -119.0 -95.2 n.a.Current Account -40.4 -35.7 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 44.7 45.4 n.a. 46.8 51.2 n.a.Current Account 22.7 20.2 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-20
IV-21
IV-22
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Economic activity across the developing countries continues to be boosted by
strong export performance, reflecting rising global high-tech demand, strength
in the United States and China, and–in some cases–higher commodity prices.  InAsia, output has soared as a result of booming exports, although domesticdemand continues to lag outside of China.  In Latin America, economicconditions have been mixed.  While, in Mexico, recovery appears to be takinghold, the economic situation is more tenuous in Brazil, and political tensionsstill afflict Venezuela.  For both regions, inflation remains generally modest.
Chinese real GDP surged more than 15 percent at an annual rate in the first
quarter, according to staff estimates, with domestic investment increasing over40 percent.  This strong performance has fueled concerns there may beexcessive investment in some sectors, and the government has raised bankreserve requirements twice since mid-March.  Growth in lending has hoveredaround 20 percent on a twelve-month basis, down slightly from the peakreached late last summer when the first reserve requirement increase wasimplemented.  Exports have also steamed ahead, up 34 percent in the firstquarter (four-quarter change), while imports rose more than 40 percent over thesame period.  The trade balance showed a small surplus on a seasonally adjustedbasis, but an $8 billion deficit on a non-seasonally adjusted basis.  The latterfigure has been used by Chinese authorities to bolster their case against anynear-term changes to the country’s exchange rate regime.
Some analysts fear that the Chinese authorities are losing control of the money
supply and inflation, in part because of difficulties in sterilizing massive foreignexchange inflows that have averaged more than $10 billion a month for wellover a year.  In addition, some indices of raw materials prices have registeredsignificant increases.  Consumer prices in the first quarter, however, rose arelatively modest 2.8 percent on a twelve-month basis; non-food pricesremained flat, while food prices were up about 8 percent.  Overall producerprice increases have also been mild.  In mid-April, Chinese authorities reportedthat there were several suspected cases of SARS in China.  So far, this outbreakappears minor and to be under control.
IV-23
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP18.0 9.9 7.9 15.5 ... ... ...
Industrial production214.2 18.2 17.7 14.9 12.2 13.2 19.4
Consumer prices2-.4 3.2 2.7 2.8 3.2 2.1 3.0
Trade balance330.4 25.5 38.2 1.6 .4 -15.7 20.0
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by st aff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year-earlier, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
...  Not applicable.
Recent data from Hong Kong indicate continuing strong growth.  Booming
tourism has boosted retail sales considerably and improved consumerconfidence.  In addition, after falling for most of the last five years, propertyprices have now risen for six consecutive months.  Exports and imports are up,supported by trade with China.  The unemployment rate declined to 7.2 percentand is now below the rate that prevailed before the SARS epidemic.  Consumerprices have risen on average over the last two quarters, although twelve-monthchanges have continued to show deflation.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP15.1 4.9 6.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate27.2 7.9 7.3 7.2 7.3 7.2 7.2
Consumer prices3-1.6 -1.8 -2.3 -1.9 -1.7 -1.9 -2.1
Trade balance4-7.7 -8.5 -14.1 -13.0 -15.3 -12.7 -11.1
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages  of the current and previous two months.
3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
n.a.  Not available.   ...  Not applicable.
IV-24
Taiwan’s economy is growing rapidly.  Recent data show that industrial
production picked up again in February and March after falling in January. High-tech production has surged in recent months, despite gyrations in othersectors.  Driven by demand from China and the strong global market forhigh-tech goods, trade has been booming; exports, new orders for exports, andimports reached new highs in March.  The unemployment rate fell to 4½ percentin March, its lowest level since the end of the previous high-tech boom inmid-2001.  Consumer prices have turned positive with twelve-month inflationclose to 1 percent in March.  The contested mid-March re-election of PresidentChen appears to be having little economic effect.
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP14.3 5.0 5.6 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate25.2 5.0 4.7 4.6 4.7 4.6 4.5
Industrial production 7.9 7.2 4.7 .7 -3.9 1.4 .8Consumer prices
3.8 -.1 -.2 .5 .0 .6 .9
Trade balance418.1 16.9 12.6 9.8 14.4 7.5 7.4
Current account525.6 28.6 31.2 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, a nnual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.
5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Data for Korea  since the last Greenbook have been generally strong.  Output
surged 11.3 percent in the fourth quarter, and previous quarters were revised up. Fourth-quarter performance across sectors was unbalanced, however, withexports soaring while private consumption fell almost 2 percent.  This unevengrowth has continued into the first quarter.  The trade surplus was $40 billion atan annual rate in the first quarter, almost double the 2003 average, spurred byrecovery in the high-tech sector and trade with China.  Exports helped boostaverage industrial production in January and February to 3.8 percent above theprevious quarter.  On the other hand, retail sales and confidence indicatorsremained well off their mid-2002 peaks.  In March, the unemployment rateticked up to 3.4 percent, and twelve-month inflation edged down to 3.1 percent. 
On March 12, Korea’s parliament impeached President Roh for allegedly
violating electoral laws by making statements in support of the Uri Party, made
IV-25
up of his core supporters.  He was then automatically suspended from office for
up to six months pending a ruling by Korea’s Constitutional Court.  Backlashagainst the impeachment resulted in a strong victory for the Uri Party in Korea’sApril 15 parliamentary elections.  This victory is expected by some to speed thecourt’s decision on the validity of the impeachment and, should the ruling be inhis favor, to help remove congressional obstacles to the reform agenda ofPresident Roh.
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP17.7 4.1 11.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 8.3 5.0 5.4 n.a. 1.1 2.9 n.a.Unemployment rate
23.1 3.4 3.6 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.4
Consumer prices33.8 3.4 3.5 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.1
Trade balance414.8 22.2 33.2 40.3 41.2 46.5 33.1
Current account55.4 12.3 30.6 24.8 28.1 34.7 11.7
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
The ASEAN economies have continued to grow strongly.  Despite recent
monthly declines in some countries, industrial production has posted significantgains across the region, largely driven by buoyant global high-tech demand.  InMalaysia, where production declined in February, the January-February averagewas up about 5 percent over the fourth-quarter average.  Similarly, in Singapore,despite a sharp decline in March, production was up more than 7 percent onaverage in the first quarter.  Export growth generally remains robust in thesecountries.  Imports have been increasing sharply as well, resulting in roughlystable trade balances in Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines, and decliningbalances most recently in Singapore and Thailand.  Inflation has picked upslightly in across most of the region, but remains well-contained.
IV-26
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 3.6 4.3 -2.2 n.a. ... ... ...
Malaysia 5.3 6.4 6.8 n.a. ... ... ...Philippines 5.8 4.4 6.6 n.a. ... ... ...Singapore 2.8 4.9 11.0 n.a. ... ... ...Thailand 6.0 7.8 11.0 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia3-1.1 -1.1 -2.7 n.a. 8.2 n.a. n.a.
Malaysia 4.6 9.3 3.9 n.a. 2.3 -1.3 n.a.Philippines -6.1 .0 -8.3 n.a. 9.2 -1.8 n.a.Singapore 8.4 3.1 4.2 7.2 18.1 1.3 -16.1Thailand 8.5 12.3 4.2 n.a. -.9 3.1 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Indonesia 25.9 28.6 29.6 n.a. 29.4 27.5 n.a.
Malaysia 13.5 21.4 19.8 n.a. 19.2 19.7 n.a.Philippines -.2 -1.6 -3.5 n.a. -2.3 -2.7 n.a.Singapore 8.7 16.2 17.2 14.2 12.1 21.2 9.1Thailand 2.7 4.2 1.4 n.a. 7.5 3.1 n.a.
n.a.  Not available.
IV-27
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20021200312003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Indonesia 9.9 5.2 5.7 4.8 4.8 4.6 5.1
Malaysia 1.7 1.2 1.2 .9 1.0 .9 1.0Philippines 2.6 3.0 3.0 3.4 3.2 3.2 3.8Singapore .4 .8 .7 1.4 1.3 1.6 1.3Thailand 1.6 1.8 1.6 1.9 1.2 2.2 2.3
1. December/December.
In Mexico, recent data suggest that economic growth may be moderating
somewhat after a robust fourth quarter.  Overall economic activity, a monthlyproxy for real GDP, declined in both January and February, although otherindicators show more strength.  Industrial production slipped a bit in Februarybut remained above the fourth-quarter average.  Exports increased rapidly in thefirst quarter, indicating that demand from the United States continues to buoythe Mexican economy.  Mexican consumer spending has begun to be a source ofstrength as well; retail sales rose in January and February to an average level1.4 percent above the fourth-quarter average.  In addition, although theunemployment rate remains elevated, manufacturing employment has stabilizedafter more than three years of declines and consumer sentiment turned up inMarch.
The Bank of Mexico raised the Corto on April 27, after market interest rates fell
more than desired by the central bank following its April 23 decision to leavepolicy unchanged.  On net, three-month interest rates have declined 50 basispoints since mid-March, to about 6 percent, reflecting reduced marketexpectations about the pace of future monetary tightening.  Mexican twelve-month consumer price inflation eased to 4.2 percent in March, as food pricesfell back after surging in previous months.
IV-28
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP11.8 2.0 4.9 n.a. ... ... ...
Overall economic activity .7 1.4 1.3 n.a. -.9 -.9 n.a.
Industrial production -.3 -.7 1.5 n.a. .2 -.6 n.a.
Unemployment rate22.7 3.3 3.6 3.7 3.7 3.8 3.8
Consumer prices3 5.7 4.0 4.0 4.3 4.2 4.6 4.2
Trade balance4-7.9 -5.7 -4.6 -4.9 -1.5 -6.4 -7.0
Imports4168.7 170.6 176.5 182.7 176.9 184.8 186.3
Exports4160.8 164.9 171.9 177.7 175.5 178.4 179.3
Current account5-14.0 -9.2 -13.1 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Brazil , recent indicators–including a major revision to the industrial
production series–suggest that growth slowed  in the first quarter.  A bright spot,
however, has been the continued good performance in the external sector,supported by higher world commodity prices and the competitive level of theexchange rate.  Inflation declined in March to under 6 percent on a twelve-month basis, within this year’s target range of 5½ percent, plus or minus 2½percent.
Doubts regarding the government’s commitment to fiscal and other economic
reforms have grown in the face of political pressures to raise the minimum wagesubstantially and dissent within President Lula’s party.  The Brazilian centralbank reduced its policy rate 25 basis points at each of its mid-March andmid-April meetings. The Selic is now at 16 percent. 
IV-29
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP13.7 -.2 6.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 2.4 .3 5.5 n.a. -.6 -1.8 n.a.Unemployment rate
212.5 12.4 13.2 11.6 11.6 11.5 11.8
Consumer prices312.5 9.3 11.4 6.8 7.7 6.7 5.9
Trade balance413.1 24.8 28.2 29.4 25.4 28.1 34.5
Current account5-7.7 4.0 1.2 6.7 8.0 2.3 9.8
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Break in October 2001 as a result of change in methodology.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, ex cept annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Recent data indicate continuing economic recovery in Argentina .  Real GDP
jumped over 10 percent at an annual rate in the fourth quarter, supported bystrong exports and rising consumer demand.  Industrial production rose1.3 percent in March and was up over 15 percent from its year-earlier level, onthe back of large gains in the printing, automobile, and mineral productindustries.  However, the country is now facing electricity shortages--utilityprice controls, as well as general economic disruption, over the past few yearshave limited investment in the energy sector.  Argentina has continued to runsizable trade surpluses, reflecting rapid growth of agricultural exports.  Twelve-month consumer price inflation remained low in March, at 2.3 percent. 
After last-minute negotiations, Argentina made a $3 billion debt payment to the
IMF in early March.  Subsequently, on March 22, the IMF Board unanimouslyapproved the second performance review of Argentina’s three-year standbyprogram.  The Argentine authorities now appear to be somewhat morecommitted to making progress on debt restructuring.  In particular, thegovernment has appointed six investment banks as advisors to assist in therestructuring and recently met with creditor groups.
IV-30
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1 -3.3 10.9 10.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -10.7 16.1 4.1 5.5 3.5 1.0 1.3Unemployment rate
222.4 17.3 14.5 n.a. ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 41.4 3.8 3.8 2.5 2.8 2.3 2.3
Trade balance416.7 15.6 11.9 n.a. 11.0 15.0 n.a.
Current account59.6 7.9 4.1 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Venezuela,  the little economic news available since the last Greenbook
suggests activity remains depressed, following last year’s rebound fromdevastating strikes.  Oil production is still believed to be about 15 percent belowpre-strike levels.  Furthermore, observers are concerned about the ability of thegovernment-owned oil company (stripped by Chavez of much of its professionalworkforce) to sustain current production levels.  Political stalemate continuesbetween President Chavez and the opposition.  In particular, the disputecontinues over whether the opposition has enough valid signatures to initiate arecall referendum.  Political interference by Chavez in this process has madeanalysts skeptical that a referendum will be held this year.
IV-31
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1 -16.7 9.0 17.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate216.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices331.2 27.1 26.3 24.0 26.6 21.9 23.5
Non-oil trade balance4-8.5 -5.8 19.4 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance413.0 15.0 46.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account57.4 9.6 10.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period,  except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.