Content last modified 05/27/2010.  
  Prefatory Note  
 
The attached document represents the most complete and accurate version  available 
based on original files from the FOMC Secretariat at the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System.    Please note that some material may have been redacted from this document if that material was received on a confidential basis.  Redacted material is indicated by occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxes around non- text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.  
      
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                    March 11, 2004
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                       March 11, 2004
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
1. The four-and-a-half-month strike by 70,000 workers against supermarket chains in
California ended on February 29, and employees we re expected back at work the first week in
March.  The resolution of the conflict came too la te to affect the February employment report. 
The end of the strike is also unlikely to aff ect the March employment report because we estimate
that firms hired about 60,000 replacement workers during the strike, roughly netting out theeffect of the strike on employment.Domestic Nonfinancial Developments
Overview
The economy appears to be expanding at a solid clip this quarter.  Partial data suggest that consumer spending is moving up at a somewhat faster pace thisquarter than last.  Moreover, although activity in housing markets has easedfrom the frenzied pace of late last year, both sales and construction remain atvery high levels.  In the business sector, spending on equipment and softwareappears to be increasing rapidly again this quarter.  In contrast, outlays fornonresidential structures have continued to decline.  As has been the case overthe past half-year, businesses seem to be able to boost production withoutadding much to their payrolls, and productivity is likely to post another sizableincrease this quarter.  Consumer price inflation crept up in January, reflecting arecent steep increase in energy prices; however, core price inflation remainedsubdued.
Labor Market Developments  
The latest employment report depicted a labor market still struggling to gainmomentum.  Private nonfarm payrolls were flat in February, and the Januarychange was revised down to 103,000.  The labor force participation rate fellfurther, and the unemployment rate stayed at 5.6 percent.
After having declined by 3 million over the past three and a half years,
manufacturing employment was about unchanged in February.  In relatedindustries, wholesale trade employment held steady last month after threemonths of increases, and employment at temporary help firms bounced backstrongly from the previous month’s decline.  Elsewhere, job gains in financialactivities and retail trade were more than offset by job losses in construction andin professional and business services excluding temporary help supply.
1
Average weekly hours of production or nonsupervisory workers were 33.8 hoursin February, an amount unchanged from the upward-revised January level andup from the average workweek in the fourth quarter of 2003.  As a result,despite the sluggish payroll gains, the level of aggregate hours in February stood0.2 percent above the fourth-quarter average (not at an annual rate).
At 5.6 percent, the unemployment rate remains nearly 3/4 percentage point
below its peak level of last June.  The decline in the unemployment rate sinceJune remains puzzling in light of the paltry gains in payroll employment over 
II-2
II-3
2.  Data for the household survey now incorporate lower estimates of population based on
downward-revised estimates of net immigra tion for 2000 through 2003.  This revision had no
effect on the unemployment rate but reduced the level of household employment a cumulative409,000 by December 2003.  Separately, the annual benchmark revision to the payroll survey
reduced the level of payroll employment last year, with a downward revision to December of81,000.  Together, these revisions narrowed the gap between these surveys regarding theestimated change in employment over the past few years by only a modest amount.
3. During the week ending February 21, 303, 000 persons filed continuing claims under the
Temporary Emergency Unemployment Compensati on (TEUC) program.  Current law prevents
individuals from enrolling in the TEUC program after the week ending December 20.  However,those recipients enrolled in the program as of th at week will continue to receive benefits until
their eligibility expires.the period.  One possible explanation for these divergent patterns is a
withdrawal of potential workers from the labor force in response to poor jobprospects.  Indeed, the labor force participation rate was 65.9 percent inFebruary and is now 0.6 percentage point below the level in June.
2  The
employment-population ratio, which combines movements in the unemploymentrate and the labor force participation rate, reversed its January gain and remainswithin the low range that prevailed last year.
Other indicators of labor market conditions suggest that the pace of layoffs
continues to ease, though the signals of greater hiring remain tentative.  Thenumber of recent job losers (those who have been unemployed less than fiveweeks) as a share of household employment fell sharply in February.  Inaddition, initial claims for unemployment insurance have held steady around350,000 since the beginning of the year, well below their mid-2003 levels. Furthermore, the level of insured unemployment has declined significantly inthe past two months, and the four-week moving average is now near its lowestlevels since 2001.
3  Finally, the number of layoffs announced in February
declined further to the low end of its range during the past two years.
Meanwhile, the fraction of individuals who exhausted their unemployment
insurance benefits without finding a job moved down sharply in January.  Thissign that hiring may be on the rise is consistent with the Manpower Inc. surveyof firms’ hiring plans for the first quarter and with the net improvement in hiringplans reported by the National Federation of Independent Businesses over thepast several months (despite a sharp drop in this volatile series in February). However, a cautionary note is sounded by the Help Wanted Index, whichcontinued to stagnate in January at the low level that prevailed in 2003. Moreover, although expectations of labor market conditions—as reported by theMichigan Survey Research Center and the Conference Board—remain morefavorable than their readings for most of last year, they deteriorated markedly inFebruary.
II-4
II-5
II-6
The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that output per hour for all persons in
the nonfarm business sector increased at an annual rate of 2.6 percent in thefourth quarter.  Over the four quarters of 2003, productivity is estimated to haverisen 5.4 percent, up from the already robust 4.3 percent gain posted in theprevious year.
Industrial Production 
After having moved up briskly in January, industrial production (IP) appears tohave expanded at a similar pace in February.  More than half of January’s0.8 percent increase in  total IP was due to a surge in utilities production, but
manufacturing IP also rose moderately.  Most indicators suggest thatmanufacturing output increased more rapi dly in February.  The diffusion index
of three-month percent changes in IP remained elevated in January, implyingthat recent gains have been widespread.   The factory operating rate edged up for
the fifth consecutive month, rising to 74.6 percent in January, but still was5.4 percentage points below its 1972-2003 average.
Gains in high-tech industries accounted for roughly half of the overall increase
in manufacturing output in December and January.  In January, production ofcommunications equipment reversed a December decline, and output in thecomputer and semiconductor industries moved up briskly.  The staff estimate ofthe average operating rate at semiconductor factories reached 94 percent inJanuary, 22 percentage points above the recent low in March of last year.
Forward-looking indicators of high-tech pr oduction point to further gains in the
near term.  Although recent revenue guidance from Intel for the first quarter of2004 implies more subdued future increases in chip production than in the lastfew quarters, anecdotal reports from our  contacts at the Semiconductor Industry
Association are upbeat.  Moreover, manufacturers of equipment used to producesemiconductors reported the strongest month in more than a year in January, 
II-7
suggesting that chip producers continue to expand capacity.  For computers,
Gartner’s preliminary estimates show sales climbing further in the first quarter. The diffusion indexes compiled by CIO Magazine  for future spending on both
data-networking equipment and computer hardware remained elevated inFebruary and suggest that plans for increased spending on informationtechnology are fairly widespread.  Howe ver, staff contacts at Cisco Systems
indicate that the company, a dominant player among manufacturers ofcommunications equipment, is only cautiously optimistic, as many of itsbusiness customers have not yet begun to implement their plans.
Motor vehicles were assembled at an annual rate of 12.6 million units in
February—300,000 units higher than in January.  Accordingly, the production ofmotor vehicles and parts is expected to contribute directly about 0.2 percentagepoint to the change in total IP in February.  For the first quarter as a whole, thescheduled pace of assemblies is up 200,000 units from the fourth-quarter level.
Production of Domestic Autos and Trucks
(Millions of units at an annual rate except as noted; FRB seasonals)
Item 20032003 2004 2003 2004
Q3 Q4 Q11Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
U.S. production 12.1 12.3 12.2 12.4 12.1 12.2 12.3 12.6
Autos 4.5 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.3 4.5Trucks 7.6 7.7 7.8 8.0 7.7 7.9 8.0 8.1
Days’ supply
270 63 68 n.a. 68 64 71 72
Inventories33.04 2.88 3.04 n.a. 3.03 3.04 3.01 3.06
Note. Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
1. Production rates for the first quarter reflect the latest schedules from Ward’s
Communications. 
2. Quarterly and annual values are calculated with end-of-period stocks and
average reported sales; excludes medium and heavy trucks.
3. End-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy trucks.
    n.a.  Not available
Weekly data suggest that electricity generation edged down last month, as
February was not as unseasonably cold as January.  Excluding electricity andmotor vehicles, output in manufacturing industries for which we have weeklyphysical product data—principally, crude oil and refinery products, iron andsteel, appliances, meat products, and lumber and plywood—rose slightly lastmonth.  Although order books at steel producers are reported to be full,production has increased little:  Major producers are already operating at highrates of utilization.  In addition, some firms are apparently facing tight suppliesof raw materials, particularly coke and steel scrap.
II-8
II-9
II-10
II-11
The forward-looking indicators of near-term production are generally positive
but slightly less so than in recent months.  The Institute for SupplyManagement’s index of new orders declined in February but remained at a highlevel.  The various regional diffusion indexes of new orders have also remainedat levels that indicate orders are increasing.  However, the Board staff’s seriesfor real adjusted durable goods orders ticked down in January.
Motor Vehicles  
Sales of light vehicles slipped in the first two months of the year to an averageannual rate of 16.2 million units.  Several factors likely contributed to the tepidperformance:  Automakers curtailed the generous incentive packages they hadoffered in December, poor weather in the Northeast and Midwest apparentlyhampered showroom traffic, and fleet sales moved down in January andFebruary from an unusually high level in December (according to confidentialdata).  Manufacturers have some control over the timing of fleet sales to thedaily rental companies, and General Motors, in particular, may have pulledforward some sales into December to boost year-end figures.
II-12
II-13
Our industry contacts were surprised by the somewhat slow pace of sales at the
start of the year, but they do not see it persisting into the spring.  Although theMichigan Survey Research Center’s diffusion index on vehicle purchaseconditions fell 9 points in February to its lowest level in ten months, detaileddata from the Michigan Survey indicate that the reasons respondents gave fortheir shifts in attitudes mostly involved declines in sales incentive programs,which some of our contacts think will be reversed in the near term.
With production at a robust annual rate of 12.6 million units in February and
sales relatively soft, inventories moved back up to the elevated level thatpersisted in the fourth quarter.  Whereas the days’ supply of automobiles iscomfortable, the supply of light trucks  is high.  Second-quarter schedules point
to a moderate decline in production; if sales improve as automakers expect,scheduled production should more closely align stocks with sales by the end ofspring.
Consumer Spending  
After having advanced at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter oflast year, consumer spending is on track for a more substantial increase in thecurrent quarter.  Spending is being supported by rising wealth and last year’sreduction in personal taxes, which is expected to result in lower final paymentsand higher refunds this year. 
Nominal spending in the retail control category of goods—which excludes auto
dealers and building material and supply stores—increased 1.4 percent inJanuary and held even in February; after accounting for price changes, weestimate that real spending in this category rose 0.7 percent in January andedged down slightly in February.  Real expenditures on services moved up0.5 percent in January, led by a surge in spending on brokerage services and acold-weather-related jump in purchases of energy services.
The major determinants of consumption look fairly strong.  Real disposable
personal income climbed 0.5 percent in January, spurred by a significant gain inprivate wages and salaries, pay raises for federal civilian and military personnel,and a drop in taxes.  Furthermore, the increase in average hourly earnings inFebruary suggests that wages and salaries rose again last month.  However,growth in real income in the first two months of the year was held downsomewhat by a run-up in energy prices.  The personal saving rate was1.8 percent in January, a little below its average level in 2003.  Equity valuesand house prices have increased considerably over the past year, and the ratio ofhousehold net worth to income appears to have retraced most of its 2002decline. 
II-14
II-15
II-16
4. In addition, unusually cold weather in January in the Northeast and Midwest may have
curtailed starts in some areas.Consumer sentiment retreated in February.  Although the Michigan Survey
Research Center's index of consumer sentiment merely retraced much ofJanuary’s outsized spike in February, the Conference Board's index of consumerconfidence fell back sharply to a level last seen in October of last year.  Eachindex showed declines in consumers' assessments of both current and expectedeconomic conditions.  Nonetheless, consumer confidence remained above thelevels seen in the summer and early fall of last year and is roughly in line witheconomic fundamentals. 
Housing Markets
Housing activity slowed in January but was still quite rapid.  Single-familystarts fell 8 percent to an annual rate of 1.54 million units.  Homebuilding hadbeen unusually strong in November and December relative to the issuance ofnew permits (adjusted for activity in areas where they are not required); thus, asubsequent slowdown was not surprising.
4  However, adjusted permits also
declined in January, and starts fell by enough to come roughly in line with thelower level of permits.  Still, single-family starts and permits in January equaledor exceeded their readings through much of last year.  In the multifamily sector,starts dropped back to an annual rate of 366,000 units in January, below thefigures reported for November and December but above the average levelrecorded last year.  With the multifamily vacancy rate reaching a record high of11.2 percent in the fourth quarter, the recent pace of construction of rental andcondominium apartments may not be sustainable.
Sales of new homes edged down in January, and sales of existing homes fell
more noticeably.  Both series have now reversed a good bit of theirextraordinary run-ups that began last spring; even so, the January levels of newand existing home sales are among the highest levels on record.
Other indicators also suggest that housing activity will remain robust in the near
term.  Rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages averaged 5.64 percent in February,the lowest monthly reading since last summer, and rates on adjustable-ratemortgages averaged only a touch above their record lows in mid-2003.  Thefour-week moving average of purchase applications from the Mortgage BankersAssociation rose to new highs in February.  However, attitudes towardhomebuying in the Michigan Survey moved down to the low end of their rangeover the past year.  This movement reflected a reduced share of respondentsciting low interest rates and a higher share taking note of elevated house prices.
The latest readings on the various measures of home prices have ranged from
the merely solid to the extraordinarily strong.  Over the twelve months ending in 
II-17
II-18
II-19
5. The repeat-transactions index is based on a comparison of valuation recorded for the same
property on two or more occasions, whether due to sales or refinancing.  It is not a constant-
quality price index, as it includes changes in value due to home improvements.  Because it isbased on price information for houses financed with loans purchased or securitized by Fannie
Mae or Freddie Mac, it truncates prices exceed ing the legal maximum amount for loan purchases
by these agencies (currently set at $333,700).  Thus, recent anecdotal evidence of softening
prices at the upper end of the distribution c ould help explain the gap between the increases
posted by the repeat-transaction index and by the median price of existing homes. January, the change in the median price of new homes was 8-1/2 percent, one of
the larger increases over the past year.  The constant-quality price index for newhomes—which controls for changes in geographic composition, home size, andother amenities—increased 4-3/4 percent over the year ending in the fourthquarter of 2003, about in line with the average gain over the previous severalyears.  In the much larger market for existing homes, the median price inJanuary was 5-1/2 percent higher than twelve months earlier, down from thevery strong readings from last summer.  However, the repeat-transactions priceindex for existing homes, which holds constant some of the compositional shiftsthat can affect the median price, moved up nearly 8-1/2 percent over the yearending in the fourth quarter, the most rapid increase since mid-2001.
5  The year-
over-year rise was largely due to the 17-3/4 percent (annual rate) jump in theindex in the fourth quarter, the largest quarterly rise since mid-1977.  Theserapid gains in house prices led to a fourth-quarter surge in the value of housingwealth, which makes up about a third of household net worth.
Business Fixed Investment
Equipment and software.   Real outlays for equipment and software advanced
at a brisk annual rate of 15 percent in the fourth quarter of 2003 according to thepreliminary GDP release.  The vigorous pace of investment appears to havecarried into the current quarter, as shipments of nondefense capital goodsexcluding aircraft rose smartly in January.  Business spending continues to besupported by increases in business output, surging cash flow, and a low usercost of capital.  Moreover, anecdotal reports from the Beige Book and ourindustry contacts suggest that the robust increases in business investment arealso due importantly to the replacement of aging equipment and software. 
In the high-tech sector, nominal shipments of computing and communications
equipment moved up strongly for a second month in January.  Paired with theongoing decline in prices, these data point to a sizable advance in real outlaysfor high-tech equipment in the current quarter.  Outside the high-tech sector,nominal shipments also expanded significantly in January; industrial machineryand engines and turbines accounted for most of this increase.
II-20
II-21
II-22
6. The “other structures” category includes build ings for a wide variety of uses (including
religious, educational, lodging, amusement, r ecreation, and transportation purposes) as well as
expenditures for brokers’ commissions and purchases of used structures.The data on new orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft support
this bright outlook:  New orders in computing, communications, and non-high-tech equipment moved up appreciably in the December-January period. 
Business investment in transportation equipment has been mixed of late. 
Although business demand for light vehicles appears to have shifted down inrecent months, demand for heavy trucks has continued to improve.  Orders forclass 8 trucks moved up further in January on the heels of a large run-up inDecember.  Demand from small businesses, which has been especially strong,has apparently been boosted by the provision in the Jobs and Growth Tax ReliefReconciliation Act (JGTRRA) that raised their expensing ceiling to $100,000. New purchases from larger transportation firms reportedly have been mostly forreplacement purposes.  Looking forward, sales may also benefit from the recentincrease in truck freight tonnage.  Although orders for medium trucks (classes 5to 7) decreased in January, the contraction followed several months of strongorders, and fundamental determinants of demand remain favorable.  In contrast,demand for aircraft remains weak; despite an increase in the fourth quarter, thelevel of spending remained well below the average over the past ten years. Nominal shipments of aircraft in January were about unchanged.
Nonresidential construction.  Business investment in structures continues to
languish.  On the basis of the revised data on construction put in place, weestimate that real spending on private nonresidential structures fell at an annualrate of roughly 3-1/4 percent in the fourth quarter, a smaller decline than wasreported by the Bureau of Economic Analysis in its preliminary release. Nominal expenditures dropped again in January.  Spending on commercial andhealth care structures—a large sector that includes offices and other commercialbuildings—fell in January, reversing all of last year’s increase.  Investment inmanufacturing facilities continued to stagnate in January at the low level thathas prevailed since early 2003, and outlays for other types of nonresidentialstructures continued to trend down.
6  On a brighter note, expenditures for power
and communication structures moved up again in January.  Furthermore,spending in the drilling and mining category increased in the fourth quarter,likely in response to higher prices for natural gas and crude oil.  The number ofoil and gas rigs in operation continued to edge up through late February,suggesting that expenditures are rising again in the first quarter.
Recent indicators of market conditions for nonresidential structures still give
only a few hints of future improvement.  The vacancy rates for both industrialbuildings and office properties edged down in the fourth quarter but remained 
II-23
II-24
II-25
7. Preliminary data from the Daily Treasury St atements suggest that defense spending was
also quite strong in February.   elevated.  Office rents continued to fall in the fourth quarter of 2003, albeit at a
slower rate than earlier in the year, and property values were unchanged.  Rentsfor retail space edged up a little in the fourth quarter, and rents for warehouseswere about flat after declining for three years.  However, the value of retail andwarehouse properties increased smartly in the fourth quarter.
Business Inventories  
Inventory investment appears to have remained modest early in the year.  InJanuary, manufacturers’ inventories increased at an annual rate of $9.9 billion. However, stockbuilding at producers of petroleum and coal products more thanaccounted for this increase.  Given the rise in oil prices between December andJanuary, the run-up in book-value stocks likely overstates the accumulation ofreal inventories.  In addition, wholesalers accumulated inventories at a modest$4.2 billion annual pace in January.  Book-value inventory-sales ratios, whichare at or near their historical lows, held fairly steady in January in themanufacturing and wholesale trade sectors.
In January, days’ supply in the Board staff’s flow-of-goods system reversed
December’s decline but nevertheless remained quite low.  Excluding motorvehicles and parts, the inventory-consumption ratio has, on balance, trendeddown since the end of 2001.  The only industries for which the estimated levelof days’ supply looks elevated are paper and communications equipment.
Government Sector
Federal.   The incoming budget data remain consistent with expectations of a
substantial widening of the unified deficit.  The deficit in the unified budget was$1.4 billion in January, compared with the $10.6 billion surplus recorded inJanuary 2003.  During the twelve months ending in January, the deficit totaled$407 billion, $143 billion more than during the preceding twelve months.
Outlays, adjusted for timing shifts, were up 5 percent over the twelve months
ending in January.  Most of the year-over-year increase was the result of a21 percent rise in expenditures on national defense.  Although this rise largelyreflected last spring’s ramp-up in defense spending, another smaller step-up hasoccurred more recently.
7  Spending on Medicare was lower than in January
2003, as was spending on net interest and agriculture.  Adjusted receipts were2 percent lower in January than twelve months earlier.  In particular, individualincome and payroll taxes, taken together, were down 3-1/2 percent, reflectingthe effects of last summer’s income tax cuts. 
II-26
II-27
II-28
8. Almost all individual income tax refunds are sent out between the end of January and the
end of May.  The extent to which tax cuts w ill show up as higher refunds versus lower final
payments is difficult to ascertain.
9. The Budget Enforcement Act baseline is the concept that has traditionally been used by
the Administration and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO).  Among other things, it assumesthat discretionary spending after 2004 increases at th e same rate as inflation.  The Administration
did not follow these conventions in its budget presentations, assuming instead that spending foractivities in Iraq and Afghanistan were temporary one-time events. Incoming data show individual income tax refunds running about 10 percent
higher than last year’s refunds.  Although the outcome for the current tax filingseason is still quite uncertain, the increase so far supports the expectation thatlast spring’s tax legislation will result in substantially larger refunds.
8  
In the President’s budget for fiscal year 2005, which was released in early
February, the Administration projected that discretionary spending would rise
more than 8 percent in real terms in fiscal 2004.  This increase reflects a10 percent increase in real defense spending and sizable advances for homelandsecurity and many other nondefense programs.  In line with its approach lastyear, the budget made no provision for funding the operations in Iraq andAfghanistan; these needs will be financed by a supplemental appropriation laterthis year.  Nondefense discretionary spending is slated to be about flat in realterms in 2005, as another sharp increase for homeland security is offset by asmall real decline, on average, for other programs.  Meanwhile, theAdministration wants to extend some expiring tax provisions (one notableexception is the partial expensing of business equipment, which will expire atthe end of this year) and to enact some small additional tax cuts.  According tothe Administration, its proposed policies would lower the deficit $29 billion in2005 when measured relative to a baseline that uses the conventions of theBudget Enforcement Act.
9  In part because of these policies, the expiration of
partial expensing, and the improvement in the economy, the Administrationexpects the deficit to narrow from $521 billion in 2004 to $364 billion in 2005. According to the CBO, the deficit would total $478 billion in 2004 and$358 billion in 2005 if the President’s proposals were enacted.
Over the longer run, both the Administration and the CBO now expect the
baseline budget to run sizable deficits through 2009.  These projections stand insharp contrast to those of a year ago, which showed the re-emergence ofsurpluses over this time period.  The change is due largely to legislation passedin 2003: the JGTRRA; the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, andModernization Act; and increases in discretionary spending. 
State and local governments.   Recent indicators of state and local spending
have been mixed.  Employment jumped 24,000 in February, more thanoffsetting the previous month’s drop.  Meanwhile, construction spending has
II-29
10. New York’s fiscal year ends on March 31.softened again after having surged in the third quarter of last year.  Outlays on
structures fell in January for the fourth consecutive month, and stood about2 percent (not at an annual rate) below their average level in the third quarter of2003.
The fiscal stress of the past three years appears to be abating.  According to a
recent survey by the National Conference of State Legislatures, the number ofstates with budget gaps during fiscal 2004 is only half as large as the number atthe same point in fiscal 2003, and a few of these states have already closed their
prospective shortfalls.  Moreover, the combined budget gap faced by the statesin February ($2.5 billion) was much smaller than at the same time last year($25.7 billion).  Although ongoing spending restraint has most likely contributedto this upturn, much of the improvement in the fiscal position of the statesappears to stem from stronger revenue collections this year.  All the same,several states still need to make substantial budgetary repairs in this fiscalyear—which ends on June 30 for most states—and in the next.  In particular,California, New York, and New Jersey will be working to close largeprospective budget shortfalls projected for fiscal 2005.
10  California’s impending
budget crisis is slated to be patched with proceeds from the $15 billion debtoffering that was approved by voters in early March.
Prices
Prices of consumer goods and services accelerated in January, primarily owingto a jump in energy prices.  Excluding food and energy, consumer prices movedup only modestly.  Although the twelve-month changes in both core PCE pricesand the core CPI came in 3/4 percentage point below the comparable year-earlier figures, the pattern of recent monthly changes suggests that core priceinflation may be flattening out:  Core PCE prices rose 0.1 percent in January,about the same as the average rate of increase in the last several months of 2003. Likewise, the core CPI moved up 0.2 percent in January, within the range ofmonthly price increases that has prevailed since last summer. 
Consumer energy prices rose 4.7 percent in January, as increases in the price of
crude oil in December and early January were passed through to the retail level. Survey data point to further increases in consumer energy prices in February;the price of gasoline, in particular, was within a penny or two of the record-high
level reached in August of last year.  Gasoline prices have been affected notonly by rising crude oil costs, but also by recent decisions in California,Connecticut, and New York to switch to an alternative pollution-reducingadditive, raising production costs for gasoline.  Furthermore, strong demand hasled to a sharp decline in gasoline inventories, which has boosted markups. Meanwhile, unusually cold weather in January drove up spot prices of natural 
II-30
II-31
II-32
II-33
11. PCE medical services prices—which are based on PPIs rather than CPIs and have a
much larger weight in PCE than in the CPI—have accelerated, while the CPI for medical
services has decelerated over the past year.  In addition, the deceleration in the price of housing
services, while similar for both indexes, has a much smaller weight in PCE than in the CPI.
12. Trade reports and Commerce Department data imply that China accounted for much of
the recent increase in export demand for steel scrap; new Chinese mills are coming on line tosatisfy local demand for high-end steel inputs into consumer goods, autos, and ships.gas; these higher spot prices are likely to be passed through to the retail level in
February.
Consumer food prices were unchanged, on balance, in January, following
sizable increases in the previous three months.  Retail beef prices declined inJanuary, although this decline was much smaller than the huge drop inwholesale prices that followed the discovery in late December of mad cowdisease in the United States.  Over the twelve months ending in January, foodprices increased 3-1/2 percent, substantially more than the 1 percent increaseover the previous year.
Excluding food and energy, the CPI rose 0.2 percent in January.  Core services
prices also increased 0.2 percent, about the same as the average monthly rate inthe second half of last year.  Meanwhile, core goods prices were unchanged inJanuary, after having declined for sixteen straight months. 
Although core PCE prices and the core CPI both decelerated 0.8 percentage
point over the past twelve months, this overall similarity masks some underlyingdifferences.  The market-based component of core PCE prices—which isprimarily based on CPI data—decelerated only 0.4 percent over the past twelvemonths, reflecting different contributions  of medical and housing services prices
in the two measures.
11  However, the non-market-based component of PCE
prices decelerated quite sharply, from a 2.9 percent increase over the twelvemonths ending in January 2003 to a 0.4 percent decline over the past twelvemonths.  The slowdown in this component primarily reflected movements in theprice of imputed banking services.   
Industrial commodity prices as measured by the Journal of Commerce index
surged more than 20 percent during 2003, and have risen an additional10 percent so far in 2004.  The biggest increases since the last Greenbook havebeen in the prices of forest products and metals, especially steel scrap.
12   The
Commodity Research Bureau price index, which has dropped back a bit sincelast January, also posted a sizable gain in 2003.  However, the run-up incommodity price inflation had little effect on prices at later stages of processing. 
II-34
II-35
II-36
II-37
13. The release of the Producer Price Indexes for January have been delayed by the Bureau
of Labor Statistics because of unanticipated di fficulties associated with switching to the North
American Industry Classification System.Core intermediate materials prices rose just 2.1 percent in 2003.13  GDP prices
increased 1.5 percent over the four quarters of 2003, about the same as in theprevious year.  Food and energy prices accelerated, but GDP price inflationexcluding food and energy eased 0.3 percentage point last year to a 1.2 percentpace.
Median year-ahead expected inflation, as measured by the Michigan Survey,
was 2.6 percent in February, within the narrow range observed over the previoussix months.  Median expected inflation over the next five to ten years ticked uplast month to 2.9 percent; this rate is about 0.2 percentage point higher than theaverage reading in 2003.  
Labor Costs
The release of fourth-quarter data shows that labor costs accelerated in 2003. Although the increases in both the employment cost index (ECI) and the BLS’smeasure of compensation per hour were smaller in the fourth quarter than earlierin the year, for 2003 as a whole, compensation gains were significantly largerthan in 2002.  Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector rose 3.6percent last year, more than double the rate of increase in the previous year.  Likewise, the ECI rose 4.0 percent in 2003 compared with a 3.2 percent gain in2002.  The acceleration in the ECI was due in large part to a pickup in benefitcosts, primarily in the retirement and savings component.  The wages andsalaries component of the ECI rose 2 percent in 2003, little changed from therate of increase posted in 2002.  In contrast, average hourly earnings ofproduction workers rose only 1-1/2 percent over the twelve months ended inFebruary, down from a 3-1/3 percent increase over the previous twelve-monthperiod.
II-38
II-39
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
III-T-1
Selected Financial Market Quotations
(One-day quotes in percent except as noted)
  Change to Mar. 10 from
2003 2004 selected dates (percentage points)
Instrument 2003 2003 2004
  June 24 Dec. 31 Jan. 27 Mar. 10 June 24 Dec. 31 Jan. 27
Short-term
FOMC intended federal funds rate 1.25 1.00 1.00 1.00 -.25 .00 .00
Treasury bills 1
     3-month 0.81 0.93 0.89 0.94 .13 .01 .05
     6-month 0.82 1.00 0.96 0.98 .16 -.02 .02
Commercial paper (A1/P1 rates)2
     1-month 0.95 1.00 1.02 1.02 .07 .02 .00
     3-month 0.91 1.05 1.04 1.03 .12 -.02 -.01
Large negotiable CDs 1
     1-month 0.96 1.06 1.03 1.03 .07 -.03 .00
     3-month 0.93 1.09 1.05 1.04 .11 -.05 -.01     6-month 0.92 1.16 1.10 1.08 .16 -.08 -.02
Eurodollar deposits 3
     1-month 0.94 1.04 1.02 1.02 .08 -.02 .00
     3-month 0.91 1.07 1.04 1.04 .13 -.03 .00
Bank prime rate 4.25 4.00 4.00 4.00 -.25 .00 .00
Intermediate- and long-term
U.S. Treasury4
      2-year 1.14 1.83 1.70 1.52 .38 -.31 -.18     10-year 3.46 4.40 4.24 3.88 .42 -.52 -.36
     30-year 4.53 5.22 5.09 4.80 .27 -.42 -.29
U.S. Treasury 10-year indexed note 1.70 2.00 1.84 1.46 -.24 -.54 -.38
Municipal general obligation 54.46 4.61 4.62 4.43 -.03 -.18 -.19
Private instruments
     10-year swap 3.67 4.66 4.47 4.11 .44 -.55 -.36
     10-year FNMA63.84 4.72 4.54 4.21 .37 -.51 -.33
     10-year AA 74.13 5.05 4.89 4.51 .38 -.54 -.38
     10-year BBB 75.16 5.74 5.52 5.16 .00 -.58 -.36
     5-year high yield 78.95 7.94 7.60 7.71 -1.24 -.23 .11
Home mortgages (FHLMC survey rate) 8
     30-year fixed 5.24 5.85 5.68 5.41 .17 -.44 -.27
     1-year adjustable 3.45 3.72 3.59 3.41 -.04 -.31 -.18
   Change to Mar. 10 
Record high 2003 2004 from selected dates (percent)
Stock exchange index Record 2003 2004
   Level Date Dec. 31 Jan. 27 Mar. 10 high Dec. 31 Jan. 27
Dow-Jones Industrial 11,723 1-14-00 10,454 10,610 10,297 -12.16 -1.50 -2.95
S&P 500 Composite 1,527 3-24-00 1,112 1,144 1,124 -26.42 1.08 -1.76Nasdaq 5,049 3-10-00 2,003 2,116 1,964 -61.10 -1.96 -7.18Russell 2000 606 3-9-00 557 595 575 -5.13 3.25 -3.39Wilshire 5000 14,752 3-24-00 10,800 11,177 10,979 -25.57 1.66 -1.77
       1.  Secondary market.
       2.  Financial commercial paper.       3.  Bid rates for eurodollar deposits collected around 9:30 a.m. Eastern time.       4.  Derived from a smoothed Treasury yield curve estimated using off-the-run securities.       5.  Twenty-year AA1-rated general obligation bonds, from Bloomberg.       6.  Constant maturity yields estimated from Fannie Mae domestic noncallable coupon securities.       7.  Derived from smoothed corporate yield curves estimated using Merrill Lynch bond data.       8.  For week ending Wednesday previous to date shown.       _______________________________________________________________________
       NOTES:         June 24, 2003 is the last day before the most recent policy easing.
         January 27, 2004, is the day before the most recent FOMC meeting.       ___________________________________________________________________
Interest Rates and Policy Expectations
Jan. 26 Jan. 29 Feb. 3 Feb. 6 Feb. 11 Feb. 16 Feb. 19 Feb. 24 Feb. 27 Mar. 3 Mar. 81.41.51.61.71.81.92.0 Percent2-Year Treasury Yield*
    *On-the-run issue, 5-minute intervals.January
FOMCNonfarm payrolls
Durable
goodsChairman’s monetary
policy testimonyNonfarm
payrolls
Jan. July Jan. July Jan. July Jan.
2001 2002 2003 20043456789Percent
10-year BBB
30-year municipal*
10-year TreasuryLong-Term Interest Rates
Daily
Mar.
10
    *Bond Buyer Revenue, weekly Thursday frequency.Jan. 28
FOMC
Mar. July Nov. Mar. July Nov. Mar. July
2004 2005 20061.01.52.02.53.03.54.0Percent
3/10/2004
1/27/2004, day before FOMC meeting Expected Federal Funds Rates*
    *Estimates from federal funds and Eurodollar futures with an allowance
for term premia and other adjustments.
0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00 2.25January 27, 2004
051015202530354045Percent
March 10, 2004Implied Distribution of the Federal Funds Rate
About 6 Months Ahead*
    *Based on the distribution of the 3-month Eurodollar rate
 5 months ahead (adjusted for a term premium), as implied by options 
 on Eurodollar futures contracts.Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
2003 20042.02.53.03.5Percent
Next 5 years5 to 10 years aheadMar. 10Jan. 28
FOMCInflation Compensation
Daily
Domestic Financial Developments
Overview
Over the intermeeting period, near-term rates remained pinned by theexpectation that policy tightening will not begin any time soon, butdisappointing economic news led investors to substantially lower theirexpectations for the federal funds rate further out, prompting sizable declines inyields on Treasury coupon securities and investment-grade corporate bonds.   Broad equity price indexes slipped somewhat on net and high-yield bondspreads widened.  Nonetheless, overall corporate earnings remain strong, creditquality has continued to improve, and business borrowing rose in January andFebruary.  Household debt growth seems to be picking up a bit in the firstquarter, while measures of household credit quality have been mixed.
Policy Expectations and Interest Rates
The FOMC’s statement after its January meeting—in particular, the replacementof “considerable period” with the statement that “the Committee believes that itcan be patient in removing its policy accommodation”—was widely read bymarket participants as signaling an earlier start for policy tightening than waspreviously expected.  However, this change in sentiment was more thanreversed in subsequent weeks in response to weaker-than-expected economicdata, especially the employment reports for January and February, and theChairman’s monetary policy testimony.  Current futures quotes indicate thatmarket participants see little chance that the funds rate will be raised before latethis year, and indeed place some odds on one further easing before tightening begins.  Moreover, the pace of tightening next year is now expected to be moregradual than market participants had anticipated at the time of the last FOMCmeeting.  
Consistent with these shifts in expectations, nominal Treasury yields declined
around 35 basis points over the intermeeting period.  Yields on inflation-indexedsecurities fell a bit more than nominal yields at relatively short maturities,leaving inflation compensation over the next five years slightly higher; over thesubsequent five years, however, infla tion compensation was about unchanged.   
Stock Prices and Corporate Risk Spreads
Broad equity price indexes fell about 1-3/4 percent over the intermeeting period,while prices for technology stocks slumped, pulling the Nasdaq index downabout 7 percent over the period.  However, even after this decline, the rise in theNasdaq over the past year has far outpaced that in broader indexes.  The equitypremium, as gauged by the gap between the forward-earnings yield on the S&P500 and the long-run real Treasury yield, rose a bit over the intermeeting
III-2
III-3
1. The long-run Treasury yield used here is a new proxy for the yield on a Treasury
perpetuity.  The proxy is a weighted average of the ten-year bond yield and the forward rate from
ten to twenty years ahead, with heavier weight on the forward rate.period.1  The forward price-earnings ratio for S&P 500 technology firms has
remained somewhat elevated, suggesting investors continue to expect higherearnings growth at tech firms.  Implied volatilities for the S&P 500 and theNasdaq 100 indexes moved up late in the intermeeting period but remained atthe lower end of their ranges since 1998.
Risk spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds were nearly unchanged over
the period, while spreads on speculative-grade bonds rose about ½ percentagepoint.  Nevertheless, given their substantial declines since late 2002, high-yieldspreads remain at the low end of their range since 1998.  Risk spreads oncommercial paper stayed well below their historical averages, partly because ofthe high degree of liquidity and low issuance volumes in the CP market.
Corporate Earnings and Credit Quality
With nearly all of the S&P 500 firms having reported, earnings per share in thefourth quarter are estimated to have risen 25 percent relative to a year earlier. Analysts nudged up their current-quarter earnings estimates, which now call foran increase of 14 percent from a year ago.  Forecasts of year-ahead earningswere again marked up, with the revisions index coming in close to a record levelin February.  Analysts’ expectations of long-term earnings growth have inchedup this year after sliding sharply over the past three years.
Corporate credit quality showed further signs of improvement over the
intermeeting period.  Bond rating upgrades, measured as a share of the par valueof all outstanding bonds, nearly matched bond downgrades in January afterrunning far below downgrades over the previous few years.  The C&I loandelinquency rate continued its downward trend in the fourth quarter of last year,and in January further declines were registered for both the six-month trailingaverage of realized bond default rates and the expected year-ahead default ratebased on firm-level estimates by Moody’s KMV Corporation.
Business Finance
Gross issuance of corporate bonds by nonfinancial corporations slowed inJanuary and February, reflecting a drop-o ff for investment-grade issuers.  High-
yield issuance remained strong despite a few deals that were cancelled ordownsized as rates rose.  Net bond issuance edged up from its fourth-quarterpace, reflecting lower retirements.  Over the same period, a number of big CPissuers reentered that market, and nonfinancial commercial paper outstandingreversed some of the runoffs registered in December.  Outstanding C&I loans
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
also posted a small increase over the first two months of the year after an
extended period of contraction.
Gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms in January and February rose
slightly from its pace in the second half of last year.  Initial public offeringsremained sluggish, and most of the activity was in the seasoned equity market,with a pickup in issuance related to mergers, acquisitions, and capitalexpenditures.  In January and February, a slight rise in cash mergers dragged netequity issuance a bit below its pace in the fourth quarter.  The record-breaking$41 billion all-cash acquisition of AT&T Wireless by Cingular Inc. is expectedto result in a sizable equity retirement toward the end of this year.
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial mortgage debt growth is estimated to have slowed to a 7 percentannual rate in the first quarter.  The issuance of commercial mortgage-backedsecurities (CMBS) fell sharply early in the quarter, but has rebounded in recentweeks.  With their share prices at or near historical highs, real estate investmenttrusts have been raising funds and acquiring property at a rising rate over thepast few quarters, providing a modest boost to mortgage debt growth.  The
commercial mortgage delinquency rate at commercial banks fell in the fourthquarter of last year to a very low level.  The delinquency rate for CMBS edgedup in January, and remains a bit above those at banks and insurance companies,reflecting the riskier loans in CMBS pools and the greater difficulties inrefinancing securitized commercial mortgages.  Despite the rise indelinquencies, CMBS yields and credit spreads remain at low levels.
Household Finance
Interest rates on thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages fell about 1/4 percentage pointover the intermeeting period, helping to spur applications for mortgagerefinancing.  Refinancing originations are estimated to have ticked up inFebruary, and the recent surge in applications presages a further increase inoriginations during the spring.  Home purchase activity remained strong inJanuary and February.
Home mortgage debt is expected to expand at a 10-1/2 percent rate in the first
quarter, a shade higher than the fourth-quarter pace but below that in the middleof last year.  Consumer credit is on track to expand at a 4-1/2 percent rate in thefirst quarter, slightly higher than in the fourth quarter; the relatively slow growthof consumer credit over the past two quarters reflects the sluggish expenditureson durable goods.  The ratio of household financial obligations to disposableincome ticked up in the fourth quarter of last year as income stagnated.Nonetheless, the ratio stayed below its levels earlier in the year, and the fourth-quarter rise seems likely to be reversed this quarter with the increase in incomethat appears to be in train.
III-8
III-9
III-10
III-11
2. The bulk of the rise in credit card delinquenc ies in the fourth quarter reflected a large
bank’s purchase from a finance company of a portfolio of loans with relatively highdelinquencies. Measures of consumer credit quality have been mixed of late.  Auto loan
delinquencies at captive finance companies improved in December, whilehousehold bankruptcy filings in February matched their year-ago pace. Meanwhile, residential mortgage and credit card delinquencies at commercialbanks rose slightly in the fourth quarter.
2
Big gains in house prices and equity valuations in the fourth quarter lifted theratio of household assets to disposable income.  With advances in equity pricesin January and February, households plowed capital into equity mutual funds,while bond funds registered weak inflows.
State and Local Government Finance
Gross issuance of municipal bonds slowed somewhat in January and February,largely because of the decline in new capital issuance from last year’s rapidpace.  In addition, advance refunding activity continued to fall from the highsreached in the first half of 2003, reflecting the shrinking pool of refundablebonds.
Yields on longer-term municipal bonds fell less than Treasuries over the
intermeeting period, boosting the muni-to-Treasury yield ratio.  The risk spreadbetween AAA- and BBB-rated revenue bonds exhibited some volatility over theperiod but ended up only a few basis points on net.  So far this year, ratingchanges on municipal bonds have largely continued last year’s pattern, withdowngrades outpacing upgrades.
In early March, California voters approved by a wide margin the issuance of up
to $15 billion in long-term bonds; the proceeds will be used to pay downmaturing short-term notes and to help finance the state’s budget deficit. Californians also approved budget caps that apparently contributed to thedecision by at least one rating agency to put the state’s general obligation debton watch for an upgrade.
Treasury and Agency Finance
During the intermeeting period the Treasury conducted well-received auctionsof two-, three-, five-, and ten-year notes.  The auctions benefited fromsubstantial indirect bidding on behalf of foreign official institutions.  The strongdemand by those institutions for Treasuries was also reflected in the rapid rise inforeign official custody holdings at th e Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
which now account for about one-fourth of all outstanding Treasury debt.  In its
III-12
III-13
3. The bulk of the increase reflected the pur chase of more than $70 billion of mortgage-
backed securities by one large domestic bank, which reported that it did so in order to helpmanage its interest-rate exposure.mid-quarter refunding statement, the Treasury indicated that in May it will
announce plans for the addition of new maturities of inflation-indexedsecurities.
The housing GSEs continued to receive close scrutiny from policymakers and
the market over the intermeeting period.  Chairman Greenspan’s testimonybefore Congress on February 24 weighed on the equity prices of both FannieMae and Freddie Mac, as investors viewed his proposals for the GSEs as a riskto future earnings growth.  The Fed’s announcement of changes in its paymentsystem policies for the GSEs and various international organizations elicitedlittle market reaction.  
Money and Bank Credit
After falling at a record rate in the fourth  quarter of last year, M2 grew slightly
in January despite robust flows into long-term mutual funds, and it strengthenedconsiderably in February as the flows to mutual funds abated somewhat.  Anacceleration in the growth of liquid deposits, which had been depressed late lastyear by the waning effects of last summer’s mortgage refinancing boom,accounted for a large share of the turnaround in M2 growth.
M3 also expanded in the first two months of this year after having contracted
during the fourth quarter of 2003.  M3 was boosted by a surge in large timedeposits, reflecting a shift from bank liabilities not included in M3 as well as apickup in bank credit growth. 
Bank credit accelerated in January and February after having been about flat in
the fourth quarter.  Loan growth was fueled by a rebound in real estate loans, asthe wave of residential mortgage securitizations late last year abated, and by asurge in the volatile security loans category.  C&I loans turned up in February,consistent with responses to the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Surveysuggesting increased demand for business loans.  Bank credit was also boostedin February by a substantial rise in holdings of mortgage-backed securities.
3
According to Call Report data, commercial bank profits increased notably in thefinal quarter of 2003 relative to both the third quarter of last year and the fourthquarter of 2002.  For 2003 as a whole, profits were bolstered primarily bydeclining non-interest expenses and reduced loss provisioning.  In the fourthquarter, those trends continued, and a partial reversal of the declines in netinterest margins posted earlier in the year also boosted profits.
III-14
III-15
 
International Developments
International Developments
U.S. International Transactions
Trade in Goods and Services
The U.S. international trade deficit in January rose to $43.1 billion, a record
high. 
  
The value of exports of goods and se rvices fell 1.2 percent in January, as
services receipts held steady and exports of goods declined 1.7 percent.  Nearly
half of the drop in exported goods re sulted from lower agricultural exports,
reflecting the bans on U.S. beef in fore ign markets and a notable drop in exports
of soybeans.  Exports of semiconducto rs, automotive products, and consumer
goods also moved lower.  In other ma jor trade categories, exports were little
changed.
The value of imports of goods and se rvices fell 0.5 percent in January from
December’s record high, reflectin g declines in both services and goods.            
A 7 percent rise in the value of oil imports (entirely reflecting higher oil prices)offset about half of the 1.4 percent fa ll in imports of non-oil goods.  Within
non-oil goods, the declines were concen trated in the volatile categories of
automotive products and aircraft.  Impor ts in other categories were mixed. 
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
Prices of Internatio nally Traded Goods
Non-oil imports.   In February, the prices of U.S. imports of non-oil goods and
of core goods rose 0.4 and 0.5 percent, re spectively.  Prices for foods, feeds and
beverages rose 1.6 percent, the sixth c onsecutive monthly increase.  Following a
3.2 percent increase in January, industr ial supplies rose another 1.4 percent
reflecting higher prices for building materials and unfinished metals.  InFebruary, prices of capital goods (exc luding computers and semiconductors) and
automotive products both increased 0.1 per cent.  Prices for both consumer goods
and computers were  unchanged in Febr uary.  Prices for semiconductors fell 0.3
percent.  The average level of importe d core goods prices in January and
February was 6 percent at an annual rate above the f ourth-quarter level of last
year.
Oil.  The BLS price of imported oil rose 0.2 percent in February, a bit less than
the rise in the spot price of West Te xas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil, which
averaged 1.5 percent more in February at $34.74 per barrel.  Thus far in March,
the spot price has averaged more than $36 per barrel.  Oil prices remain elevated
because of low oil inventories in the Un ited States and strong oil demand, fueled
by world economic activity.  OPEC's r ecent decision to cut its production target
by 1 million barrels per day, effective in April, a slow recovery of oil exportsfrom Iraq, and political turmoil in Venezuela are also keeping upward pressureon oil prices.
Exports.   In February, the prices of U.S.  exports of total goods and of core
goods increased 0.6 and 0.7 percent, re spectively.  The price index for
agricultural products rose 1.2 percent in February, reflecting higher prices for
corn, soybeans, and vegetables.  Higher  prices for exported metals, chemicals
and lumber all contributed to the 1.6 percent increase in nonagricultural
industrial supplies.  Capital goods (e xcluding computers and semiconductors)
and automotive products both increased 0.1 percent.  For consumer goods, prices
declined 0.1 percent.  Following a 1.4 pe rcent decline in January, the prices of
exported computers rose 0.7 percent in  February.  Prices for semiconductors
were unchanged.  The average level of exported core goods prices in January
and February was 6½ percent at an annual rate above th e fourth-quarter level of
last year.
IV-6
U.S. International Fi nancial Transactions
Private foreign demand for U.S. securities (line 4 of the Summary of U.S.
International Transactions table) was ve ry strong in both December and January,
lending further evidence that weak pr ivate foreign demand in September and
October was an aberration.  In both r ecent months there were significant
acquisitions of Treasuries (line 4a), co rporate debt securities (line 4c), and
equities (line 4d).  There were small net pur chases of agency debt securities (line
4b) in December and larger net purchases in January following four months ofnet sales by foreigners.  Fo r the fourth quarter as a whole, net foreign private
purchases were slightly above the year ly average; for the year, net purchases
were slightly below those recorded in 2002.  Foreign investor s made record net
purchases of corporate debt securitie s in 2003 but reduced their holdings of
agency debt securities, a portfolio realignment that may in part have been inresponse to agency accounting scandals.  Foreign net purchases of U.S. equities
continued in 2003 but decreased for the third consecutive year.
Net foreign official inflows (line 1) we re strong in December at $21 billion and
then jumped to $49 billion in January, a figure more in line with averagequarterly purchases during 2003.  Net infl ows during both the fourth quarter and
the past year were at record levels, a lthough the fourth quarter's figure seems
destined to be easily surpassed in the first quarter of 2004, as  partial data from
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York indi cate that foreign official reserves in
custody there increased by another $40 billion during February.     
           
                      .
U.S. investors were moderate net buyers of foreign securities (line 5) in
December and January, as net purchases of  foreign equities (line 5b) more than
offset net sales of foreign debt (line 5a).  In both m onths there were significant
U.S. purchases of Japanese  equities.  During 2003 U.S. investors increased their
holdings of foreign secur ities after being ne t sellers in 2002, acquiring equities
and selling foreign debt securities.  While U.S. net acquisitions of foreignsecurities in 2003 remained below the level of the 1999-2001 period, figures for
the earlier period were bolstered by equities acquired as a result of stock swapsrelated to merger activity, whereas ac quisitions in 2003 resulted primarily from
net purchases.
During both 2002 and 2003 net inflows from foreign official institutions
combined with foreign private purchases of U.S. securities exceeded U.S.acquisitions of foreign securities by  slightly over $500 billion.  A $40 billion
decrease in net private foreign purch ases of U.S. securities during 2003,
combined with a $90 billion increase in ne t acquisitions of foreign securities by
U.S. residents, was offset by an incr ease in foreign official inflows of $120
billion.
IV-7
The highly volatile banking sector (lin e 3) saw small net inflows in December
and large net inflows in January.  Net inflows during the fourth quarter exceedednet outflows recorded during the first ni ne months of 2003 a nd resulted in net
banking sector inflows during 2003.
Full balance of payments data for the four th quarter, including direct investment,
will be released Friday, March 12, a nd included in the Greenbook Supplement.
IV-8
IV-9
Foreign Financial Markets
Foreign exchange markets were very volatile during the intermeeting period. 
The dollar appreciated in the days immediately following the FOMC meeting,then depreciated until mid-February, but appreciated sharply thereafter.  Themajor currencies index of the dollar’s ex change value has, on net, risen about
3 percent since the January FOMC meetin g.  On balance over the intermeeting
period, the dollar has appreciated about 3 percent against the euro and the Swiss
franc, 5 percent vis-a-vis the yen, a nd 1.5 percent versus sterling and the
Canadian dollar.  Although the G-7 comm uniqué issued on February 7 contained
a number of elements which were seemingly designed to accommodateEuropean concerns about the recent strength  of the euro versus the dollar, it had
little discernable impact on foreign exchange markets at the time.  
In many cases, the exchange rate movements over the period could not be
directly traced to the arrival of specifi c economic news or data in the United 
States or abroad.  Market analysts, how ever, highlighted seve ral very public calls
by euro-area political leaders in mid-February decrying the effects of the strongeuro and calling for the European Central Bank to lower its policy interest rates. The dollar’s appreciation after mid-February also appeared to coincide withrising expectations among some mark et participants that the employment
situation in the United States was poised to improve markedly in the near term,
IV-10
potentially leading the FOMC to alter its policy stance earlier than previously
assumed.  In the event, the disappointin g February employment report that was
released on March 5 dashed those ex pectations and was followed by a
immediate drop of the dollar’s exchange value against European currencies.
Foreign exchange intervention by the Japanese authorities was extremely heavy
during the intermeeting period, and many of  the operations appeared to have had
an immediate, although often only trans itory, impact on the exchange value of
the yen.  Dollar purchases by Japan’s Mi nistry of Finance did not halt around the
time of the February G-7 meeting, as they had at the time of the meeting inSeptember.  In an appare nt departure from previous  “leaning against the wind”
tactics, intervention sales of yen continued during th e second half of February
even as the yen was depreciating subs tantially.  Intervention operations were
particularly large when market partic ipants renewed downw ard pressure on the
dollar following the release of the Februa ry U.S. employment report.  Over the
period, traders reported that liquidity in  the dollar-yen foreign exchange spot
market seemed to have become almost exclusively tied to official activity, anddaily trading volume was generally well below average despite the presence oflarge official flows.
IV-11
The policy setting bodies of the European  Central Bank and the Bank of Japan
left their respective polic y rates unchanged over the intermeeting period.  The
Bank of England raised its benchmark re po rate 25 basis points to 4.0 percent on
February 5, surprising many market an alysts who had predicted that the Bank
would not do so until later in the year.  The Bank of Canada lowered itsovernight target rate 25 basis points, to 2.25 percent, on March 2.  On net over
the period, market expectations for the path  of future short-te rm interest rates
shifted down substantially for the euro a nd the Canadian dollar, and a bit less for
sterling.  For instance, yields implied by eurocurrency interest rate futurescontracts maturing in December 2004 dropped about 30 basis points for the
euro, 20 basis points for the Canadian do llar, and 15 basis points for sterling. 
Dollar yields based on contracts of the same maturity fell about 30 basis points.
Ten-year sovereign yields in most i ndustrial countries dr opped on net over the
intermeeting period, with much of the d ecline coming after the release of the
U.S. employment report in early March.  Ten-year yields fell almost 30 basis
points on net in the euro area and Canada  and declined about 20 basis points in
the United Kingdom, but changed little in Japan.  In comparison, U.S. ten-yearTreasury yields fell about 40 basis points.   Amid signs that a sustained economic
recovery may be taking hold in Japa n, Japanese equity prices rose about
5 percent on net over the period, with the Topix index reaching its highest level
since June 2002.  Headline equity indexe s ended the period little changed on net
in the United Kingdom and were down s lightly in Canada.  Euro-area equity
prices, which had generally been up mode stly on net over the period, fell sharply
on March 11 following news of the terrori st bombings in Madrid; they ended the
intermeeting period down slightly on balance. 
In emerging markets, count ry-specific events  appeared to dominate news from
the major industrial countries in driv ing asset prices over the intermeeting
period.  The exchange values of major Latin American currencies versus the
dollar were little changed on net.  Short-term Mexican peso interest rates rosesharply, reflecting in part the Bank of Mexico’s increase in the “corto” onFebruary 20, the first such tightening move since March 2003.  Brazil’s EMBI+spread over Treasuries, which had declined  substantially in the past few months,
rose 135 basis points, to near 545 basis points, amid political difficulties for the
current government and some  of its reform proposals.  Equity prices declined
about 11 percent in Brazil over the period, but rose about 4 percent in Mexico. 
Argentine equity prices rose about 3 pe rcent on net, with all of the increase
coming after the news on March 9 that Argentina would make a large payment
due that day to the IMF and that it woul d continue discussions with the Fund and
private creditors on the status of its defaulted debt.  The news, however, had
little impact on Argentina’s dollar-denominat ed bond spread.  In Emerging Asia,
IV-12
equity prices were also mixed, rising, for example, about 8 percent in Taiwan
and 7 percent in Malays ia, but dropping about 4 percent in Thailand and
8 percent in the Philippines amid concer ns about the economic repercussions of
the spread of avian flu.  Emerging Asian currencies registered little netmovement against the dollar over the period.
           
         .  The
Desk did not intervene during the period for the accounts of the System or the
Treasury.
IV-13
Developments in Forei gn Industrial Countries
Outside of the euro area, growth in  the major foreign industrial economies
strengthened in the fourth quarter.  Japanese output leaped up in the fourth
quarter, boosted by a surge in exports a nd private investment, and indicators for
January remain favorable.  The United Kingdom also registered a robust and
broad-based gain that appear s to have continued into th is year.  In contrast, while
the fourth-quarter pace of Canadian ac tivity was strong, growth was buttressed
by a considerable contribution from i nventories, and empl oyment and sales
numbers weakened in January.  Despite vi gor in investment, growth in the euro
area disappointed, as consumption was so ft and net exports made a negative
contribution.  Recent economic sentiment and business surveys in the euro area
are mixed.
Consumer price inflation remained low.  Twelve-month core inflation in Canada
slipped further in January to 1.4 percent,  and headline inflation in the euro area
dropped well below the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling.  The twelve-month rate of
British inflation continued to be well below the Bank of England’s 2 percenttarget in January.  Slight CP I deflation persisted in Japan. 
In early March, the Bank of Canada eased monetary policy again citing the need
to support aggregate demand.  The Bank of  England tightened monetary policy
further in early February, pointing to st ronger growth and latent inflationary
pressures. 
In Japan , real GDP jumped 6.4 percent (s.a .a.r.) during the fourth quarter,
marking the fastest quarterly growth ra te since 1990.  The advance was led by a
surge in business fixed investment, whic h rebounded after being flat in the third
quarter.  Exports climbed, boosted by buoyan t growth in emerging Asia, and net
exports added 1.6 percentage points to  growth.  Personal consumption also
advanced robustly.  Notably, nominal GDP  rose a more moderate 1.7 percent at
an annual rate in the fourth  quarter, as the GDP deflator  fell 4.7 percent (s.a.a.r.).
Indicators suggest that the economy conti nued to expand at a swift pace in the
first quarter.  Real exports soared in Ja nuary, driven by an increase in shipments
to emerging Asia and the euro area, and industrial producti on rose 3.4 percent. 
Real imports also climbed in January , but at a slower pace than exports. 
Household expenditures rose sharply in January, and new car registrations
posted strong gains in January and Fe bruary on average.  The manufacturing
PMI moved down a little in February, but c ontinued to point to expansion.  Core
machinery orders, a leading indicator of business fixe d investment, fell sharply
in January, following hefty increases in the fourth quarter.
IV-14
Japanese Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20021200312003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 1.7 3.6 2.2 3.5 2.5 6.4
Total domestic demand .7 2.8 1.9 2.4 1.9 5.0
Consumption .7 2.1 1.7 1.2 2.0 3.5Private investment -.9 11.6 7.6 15.9 2.0 21.7Public investment -3.7 -12.2 -11.7 -14.2 -19.2 -2.9Government consumption 1.6 1.3 1.5 -.5 2.6 1.4Inventories
2.4 -.2 .0 -.4 1.0 -1.3
Exports 17.2 11.2 5.5 6.6 13.7 19.6Imports 8.7 4.2 3.4 -4.4 10.7 8.0Net exports
21.0 .9 .3 1.2 .7 1.6
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Recent readings on labor market conditions  have been mixed.  In January, the
unemployment rate edged up to 5 percent.  The job-offers-to-applicants ratio, a
leading indicator of employment, wa s unchanged, though it remained at its
highest level in over ten years.  Averag e nominal wages continued to fall, with
winter bonuses down markedly from yea r-ago levels.  Core consumer goods
prices in the Tokyo area (which exclude  fresh food but include energy) rose 0.1
percent in February from the previous  month but were down 0.2 percent from a
year earlier.  Wholesale prices were flat  in January and February compared with
the same month a year ago, desp ite recent jumps in food prices.
IV-15
Japanese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003 2004
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production1-.7 1.3 3.7 1.0 -.8 3.4 n.a.
All-industries index .0 .0 1.2 -1.4 -.4 n.a. n.a.Housing starts 4.4 -6.5 4.9 -4.2 8.3 2.7 n.a.Machinery orders
23.4 -2.9 11.3 -7.8 8.1 -12.2 n.a.
Machinery shipments31.5 2.2 7.9 -.9 2.8 1.9 n.a.
New car registrations -5.5 2.5 -2.0 -6.9 2.6 17.9 -5.9Unemployment rate
45.4 5.2 5.1 5.1 4.9 5.0 n.a.
Job offers ratio5.61 .65 .73 .73 .77 .77 n.a.
Business sentiment6-26 -21 -15 ... ... ... ...
CPI (Core, Tokyo area)7-.4 -.3 -.1 -.2 -.1 -.3 -.2
Wholesale prices7-1.0 -.7 -.4 -.5 -.1 .0 .0
1. Mining and manufacturing.
      2. Private sector, ex cluding ships and electric power.
3. Excluding ships and railway vehicles.4. Percent.5. Level of indicator.6. Tankan survey, diffusion index.7. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
Real GDP in the euro area  grew sluggishly in the fourth quarter, rising just 1.2
percent (s.a.a.r.).  Fi nal domestic demand grew 1.2 percent as investment
registered a strong gain, but consumpti on was weak.  Net exports subtracted 2.7
percentage points from growth, in part th e result of the sharp appreciation of the
euro over the past year or two.  The change in inventories made a sizable
positive contribution to growth in the fourth quarter.  Performance was notablyweak in Germany, where real GDP rose  0.9 percent, and Italy, where real GDP
was unchanged from the third-quarter level.  After falling for eleven of the lasttwelve quarters, investment  grew 6.8 percent in Germany in the fourth quarter.
Economic indicators for the first quarter are mixed. After declining in the last
two months of 2003, the volume of reta il trade rebounded in January, increasing
2.4 percent from December levels.  German industria l production fell 0.1 
IV-16
Euro-Area Real GDP1
(Percent change from previous pe riod, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20022200322003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 1.1 .6 -.1 -.4 1.6 1.2Total domestic demand .9 1.3 1.5 .5 -.9 4.1Consumption .6 .7 1.7 .0 .8 .3Investment -1.6 -.8 -3.6 -1.5 -.7 2.6Government consumption 2.2 2.3 2.0 2.2 2.5 2.4Inventories
3.5 .5 .9 .3 -1.7 2.7
Exports 3.6 .1 -6.0 -3.6 9.7 .9Imports 3.3 1.8 -2.4 -1.5 3.1 8.7Net exports
3.2 -.6 -1.5 -.8 2.5 -2.7
Memo:
France 1.3 .6 .2 -1.5 1.7 1.8Germany .5 .0 -1.0 -.6 .8 .9Italy .9 .1 -1.0 -.5 1.8 -.0
1. Includes Greece as of 2001 Q1.
2. Q4/Q4.3. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
percent in January, as sharp falls in construction a nd energy production
outweighed gains in intermediate a nd capital goods production. The volume of
German industry orders fe ll 2 percent in January; or ders fell across all major
categories, with orders for consumer  goods posting their largest one-month
decline since the series began in 1991.  The European Commission’s survey of
euro-area economic sentiment  was unchanged in Febr uary.  Economic sentiment
significantly improved in Germany and Spain, while it fell in both France andItaly.  Both the German IFO survey and the Belgium National Bank surveyticked down in February following seve ral months of gains remaining above
their fourth-quarter average level. The euro area purchasing managers index(PMI) for manufacturing was unchanged at  52.5 in February, while the PMI for
Germany rose slightly to 53.4.
 Twelve-month consumer pri ce inflation fell sharply over the first two months of
the year, and in February fell to 1.6 pe rcent, well below the ECB’s 2 percent
target ceiling for consumer price inflati on.  The drop in inflation almost entirely 
IV-17
Euro-Area Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003 2004
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production1-.4 .6 1.1 -.1 .2 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume2.0 -.2 -.3 -1.8 -.1 2.4 n.a.
Unemployment rate38.8 8.8 8.8 8.8 8.8 8.8 n.a.
Consumer confidence4-19.3 -17.3 -16.3 -16.0 -16.0 -15.0 -14.0
Industrial confidence4-12.0 -11.3 -7.3 -6.0 -8.0 -6.0 -6.0
Mfg. orders, Germany -1.5 1.3 3.8 .3 1.6 -2.0 n.a.CPI
51.9 2.0 2.0 2.2 2.0 1.9 1.6
Producer prices51.4 1.2 1.1 1.4 1.0 .3 n.a.
M358.5 7.6 7.0 7.4 7.0 6.4 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Excludes motor vehicles.3. Percent. Euro area standardized to ILO defi nition.  Includes Eurostat estimates in some
cases.
4. Diffusion index based on European Commission surveys in individual countries.5. Eurostat harmonized definition.  Percent change from year earlier.n.a.  Not available.
owed to base effects as the energy component of consumer prices fell 0.3
percent (on a twelve-month basis) in Ja nuary.  The sharp appreciation of the
euro has helped to offset the recent in crease in dollar-denominated oil prices. 
Food prices continue to exert upw ard pressure on headline inflation.
Real GDP growth in the United Kingdom  quickened in the fourth quarter, to
3.8 percent (s.a.a.r.), and growth during the first three quarters of 2003 was
revised upwards.  Fourth-quarter gr owth was marked by robust rises in
consumption, government expenditure, a nd investment.  These brisk increases
were partly offset by negative contri butions from inventory decumulation and
net exports, as in the latter case, a cons iderable pick-up in export growth was
outpaced by a sizable expansion in imports.
On balance, data for the first quarter  suggest continued expansion.  Although
industrial output in January inched up, the manufacturing PMI weakened inFebruary, indicating a slower pace of gr owth, and business confidence fell back 
IV-18
U.K. Real GDP
(Percent change from previous pe riod, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20021200312003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 2.0 2.8 1.2 2.6 3.4 3.8
Total domestic demand 3.3 2.6 -.8 2.2 4.6 4.4
Consumption 2.8 3.3 .2 3.9 4.6 4.5Investment 4.8 2.9 -5.1 6.5 3.7 6.8Government consumption .8 3.4 4.4 .8 .4 8.0Inventories
2.6 -.6 -.9 -1.7 1.2 -1.1
Exports -1.3 3.2 16.8 -9.9 .2 7.4Imports 4.3 2.0 5.4 -9.7 4.5 9.0Net exports
2-1.7 .2 2.6 .4 -1.3 -.8
      1. Q4/Q4.
     2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
after surging in January.  However, re tail sales continued to expand smartly in
January, and one of the leading surveys of sales suggests an upbeat February.
The services PMI for February  signaled further strength.
According to the two leading private su rveys, housing price inflation has picked
up in recent months, with the average twelve-month rise at around 17 percent in
February.  Household net mortgage a nd consumer borrowing in January bounced
back to previous peaks, af ter falling sharply in December.
The labor market continued to be tight, as  both the official claims-based and the
labor force survey measures of the unemployment rate remained near its lowestpoint since 1975.  Employment growth has slowed for the twelve months ending
in November, with strong growth in self-employment still offsetting declines inestablishment jobs.  The twelve-month CP I inflation rate tic ked up in January,
but remained below the Bank of  England’s 2 percent target.
On February 5, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Bank of England
raised the official repo rate 25 basis poi nts to 4 percent in a move that was
widely expected.  The MPC’s statemen t noted that the broadening global
recovery and recent domestic indicators poi nt to a further pickup in growth at
home, and that household spending a nd the housing market have remained 
IV-19
U.K. Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003 2004
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb.
Industrial production .3 -.0 -.1 -.9 .1 .1 n.a.
Retail sales volume11.5 1.2 1.8 .3 .8 .5 n.a.
Unemployment rate2
      Claims-based 3.1 3.1 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.9 n.a.      Labor force survey
35.0 5.0 n.a. 4.9 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence4-6.3 -3.3 -.3 -2.0 5.0 21.0 14.0
Consumer confidence5-6.7 -5.0 -3.3 -4.0 -3.0 -3.0 -2.0
Consumer prices61.3 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 n.a.
Producer input prices7-.5 1.2 2.9 4.4 2.1 -.5 -1.9
Average earnings73.0 3.6 3.4 3.2 3.4 n.a. n.a.
1. Excludes motor vehicles. 
2. Percent.3. Three-month average centered on month shown.4. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage 
expecting output to decrease.
5. Average of the percentage balance from consumers’ expectations of their financial 
situation, general economic situation, unemployment, and savings over the next 12                     months.
6. Consumer prices index (CPI). Percent change from year earlier.7. Percent change from year earlier.n.a.  Not available.
resilient.  The members felt that “alt hough sterling has appr eciated, continued
growth above trend means that inflati onary pressures are likely to pick up
gradually over the next couple of years.” 
In Canada , real GDP growth moved up in th e fourth quarter, bolstered by a
sizable positive contribution from a build-up in inventories, as well as by robust
export and investment growth.  Exports of industrial goods and materials and
motor vehicles showed particular strength, while investment benefitted from acontinued boom in residen tial construction.  Consum ption flattened following
strong increases over the past year. The large increase in inventories occurredprimarily among retailers and motor vehi cle dealers, in part reflecting weak
sales. 
IV-20
Canadian Real GDP
(Percent change from previous period, except as noted, s.a.a.r.)
Component 20021200312003
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
GDP 3.5 1.6 2.5 -1.0 1.3 3.8
Total domestic demand 5.7 3.5 7.2 2.0 .8 4.3
Consumption 3.8 2.8 3.2 3.5 4.6 .1Investment 2.0 7.1 7.9 2.5 13.6 4.8Government consumption 2.8 2.4 2.9 4.7 1.4 .6Inventories
22.3 -.1 2.9 -1.4 -4.7 3.0
Exports .7 .5 -5.6 -3.1 -1.7 13.5Imports 6.5 5.4 3.8 5.4 -4.0 17.8Net exports
2-2.0 -1.8 -3.7 -3.2 .8 -1.1
1. Q4/Q4.
2. Percentage point contribution to GDP growth, s.a.a.r.
Recent data point to a somewhat slower pace of growth, on balance, in the first
quarter.  Employment continued to rise in January, albeit at a slower pace thanthe previous four months.  The housing sector has shown continued strength,
with starts rebounding in February follo wing a weather-related fall in January. 
Survey data of overall activ ity suggest continued expansion in coming quarters. 
Businesses have indicated increased pr oduction prospects in the first quarter,
while a survey of investment inten tions forecasts a 3.1 percent increase in
investment spending in 2004.  However,  motor vehicle sales fell to a five-year
low in December, and preliminary reports suggest a further decline in January. 
In January, both exports and imports declin ed sharply, largely due to a reduction
in motor vehicle shipments both to and from the United States.
In January, the twelve-month rate of h eadline CPI inflation fell to 1.2 percent. 
Twelve-month core inflati on, excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes, edged
down to 1.4 percent.
On March 2, the Bank of Cana da lowered the targeted overnight rate (its key
policy rate) and the Bank Rate 25 ba sis points each, to 2¼ percent and 2½
percent, respectively.  The Bank stated  that its economic outlook was unchanged
on balance since the release of January’s Monetary Policy Report Update , with
external demand slightly stronger a nd domestic demand slightly weaker than
IV-21
expected.  The cut was characterized as providing additional monetary stimulus
to support aggregate demand and to return inflation to the 2 percent mid-point of
the Bank's 1 to 3 percent target band by the end of 2005.
Canadian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period except as noted, s.a.)
Indicator2003 2004
Q2 Q3 Q4 Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan.
GDP by industry -.1 .4 1.0 .2 .2 .5 n.a.
Industrial production -1.4 .4 1.6 -.1 .3 1.2 n.a.New mfg. orders -4.6 1.0 .0 -4.0 .8 1.6 n.a.Retail sales -.1 1.0 -1.1 .1 -.3 -1.1 n.a.Employment .2 .2 .9 .4 .4 .3 .1Unemployment rate
17.7 7.9 7.5 7.6 7.5 7.4 7.4
Consumer prices22.8 2.1 1.7 1.6 1.6 2.0 1.2
Core Consumer Prices2,32.4 1.7 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.4
Consumer attitudes4116.2 122.0 n.a. ... ... ... ...
Business confidence4109.9 127.2 n.a. ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percent change from year earlier, n.s.a.3. Excluding food, energy, and indirect taxes.4. Level of index, 1991 = 100.n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-22
External Balances
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country
and balance2003 2004
Q2 Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Japan
Trade 77.2 90.1 116.9 112.1 125.0 123.4
Current account 134.8 145.3 156.8 158.8 149.2 190.3
Euro area
Trade167.7 134.0 99.7 71.2 84.5 n.a.
Current account1-31.4 61.2 n.a. 61.8 n.a. n.a.
Germany
Trade 139.5 173.9 153.3 136.9 182.8 220.1Current account
139.2 58.2 96.8 90.4 94.4 -22.7
France
Trade -.0 1.1 1.5 .7 3.1 n.a.Current account 1.9 3.3 1.3 1.9 2.2 n.a.
Italy
Trade -2.7 1.4 4.2 2.9 -4.9 n.a.Current account
1-42.3 6.5 -25.0 -31.9 -50.3 n.a.
United Kingdom
Trade -70.5 -76.2 -85.9 -89.2 -83.5 -122Current Account -50.3 -52.1 n.a. ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 38.9 44.7 45.4 40.6 49.6 48.5Current Account 14.5 21.2 20.2 ... ... ...
1. Not seasonally adjusted.
n.a.  Not available.  ...  Not applicable.
IV-23
IV-24
IV-25
Economic Situation in Other Countries
Recent data indicate that the economie s of emerging Asia have generally
continued to grow at a robust pace.  Me xico appears to ha ve finally broken out
of its economic slump, and the recovery in the rest of Latin America is
strengthening.  Inflation in the world’s emerging market economies remainssubdued.
The Chinese economy has continued to expand at a rapid pace.  Average growth
in industrial production in January and February was down slightly from the
fourth quarter pace, but remained quite strong.  The combined trade balance forJanuary and February is in deficit, as  was expected.  Exports dropped back from
the high December level, which was booste d by efforts to fill orders before a
January decline in the export tax reba te.  Imports have continued to grow
strongly, largely due to the combination of  higher volumes and prices of Chinese
commodity imports.
Foreign exchange reserves rose a bout $12 billion in January to $415 billion. 
The Chinese authorities are concerned a bout the effects that these foreign
exchange inflows are having on the money supply and inflation.  A slight decline
in money supply (M2) growth, to 18 percent on a year-over-year basis in
January, is being viewed as a sign that the authorities’ efforts to limit creditgrowth to certain industries have had some effect.  Infl ation stayed at 3.2 percent
in January on a twelve-month basis.  Food prices were up 8 percent, while other
prices remained flat.  Recen t increases in producer pri ces have not yet translated
into higher prices for most consumer goods.
Chinese Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP18.0 9.9 19.6 7.9 ... ... ...
Industrial production211.8 16.6 16.6 17.7 18.1 7.2 23.2
Consumer prices2-.4 3.2 .8 2.7 3.2 3.2 n.a.
Trade balance330.4 25.5 17.0 49.6 78.4 41.2 -137.6
1. Annual rate.  Quarterly data estimated by staff from reported four-quarter growth rates. 
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change from year earlier.  Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
IV-26
Real GDP in Hong Kong grew 6 percent in the fourth quarter, boosted by
tourism and a turnaround in the property s ector.  Tourist arrivals recently hit an
all-time high, as Chinese t ourists have poured into H ong Kong, and retail sales
and consumer confidence have been booste d as a result.  After falling for more
than five years, property prices staged a rebound in the second half of last year,
rising more than 7 percent.  Overall consumer prices have been rising on a
monthly basis for about six months, a lthough the twelve-month change remains
negative.  The unemployment rate has leveled off at 7.3 percent, down from
almost 9 percent during the aftermath of  the SARS outbreak last year.  Both
exports and imports have grown strongly in recent months, driven by trade withChina.
Hong Kong Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Real GDP15.1 4.9 29.1 6.1 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate27.3 7.9 8.3 7.3 7.5 7.3 7.3
Consumer prices3-1.6 -1.8 -3.7 -2.3 -2.4 -1.8 -1.7
Trade balance4-7.7 -8.5 -8.4 -16.5 -19.8 -16.7 -18.0
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Monthly numbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f....  Not applicable.
Taiwan’s real GDP grew about 5½ percent in the fourth quarter of last year,
down from the blistering pace of the third quarter.  Growth was driven byinvestment and exports.  I nvestment appears to be emerging from a slump that
has spanned several years and which reflected overcapacity in the economy’s
high-tech sector.  Exports were buoyed  by demand from China, and the trade
surplus through February is  well above the fourth quart er surplus.  Industrial
production fell sharply in January, likely a result of the shifting of the Lunar
New Year holiday from February last year  to January this year.  Production was
still above analyst expectations, and despite  the change in the holiday date, high-
tech production grew.  Consumer price inflation reached positive territory on a
twelve-month basis in February, after be ing negative for much of the last year
and a half.
IV-27
Taiwan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP14.3 5.0 25.1 5.6 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate25.2 5.0 4.9 4.7 4.7 4.7 n.a.
Industrial production 6.4 5.5 7.2 3.8 5.0 -5.2 n.a.Consumer prices
3.8 -.1 -.6 -.2 -.1 .0 .6
Trade balance418.1 16.9 19.9 9.1 3.7 -.8 31.6
Current account525.6 28.6 27.2 31.2 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.  Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Korea,  data releases since the last Gr eenbook confirmed that strong exports
remain the main engine of growth, as  the trade surplus widened further in
December.  Industrial production rose in  January, led by a continued boom in
external demand for memory chips, mobile  phones, and autos.  The high level of
household debt, along with uncertaintie s stemming from the nuclear standoff on
the Korean peninsula and parliamentary elections in April, appear to have
prevented export strength from translatin g into a significant pickup in domestic
demand.  The unemployment rate declin ed in January, and although consumer
confidence indicators were flat, retail sales rose from the previous month. 
Twelve-month consumer pri ce inflation was almost unc hanged at 3.3 percent in
February.  On March 11, citing stable  inflation and c ontinued weakness in
domestic demand, the Bank of Korea decide d to maintain its  benchmark policy
rate at 3.75 percent.
IV-28
Korean Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP17.0 n.a. 4.7 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 8.3 5.0 1.5 5.4 2.0 1.1 n.a.Unemployment rate
23.1 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.5 3.3 n.a.
Consumer prices33.8 3.4 3.2 3.5 3.4 3.4 3.3
Trade balance414.8 22.2 29.9 33.2 35.5 n.a. n.a.
Current account55.4 12.3 15.0 30.6 29.4 n.a. n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
Recent data releases for the ASEAN economies generally point to continuing
strength.  Real GDP expanded at a very healthy pace in the fourth quarter, albeitnot as rapidly as in the third quarter .  Indonesia was the exception, with a weak
showing in the agricultural sector leading the decline in fourth quarter real GDP. Singapore’s industrial produc tion skyrocketed in January , after a couple of weak
months.  Aside from the Philippines, tr ade surpluses widened across the region
in 2003, and the most recent data continue d to show surpluses.  Twelve-month
consumer price inflation in Indonesia is  now below 5 percent, and inflation in
the other ASEAN economies has also remained low.
IV-29
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  Growth
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator and country 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 3.6 4.3 7.2 -2.2 ... ... ...
Malaysia 5.3 6.4 8.9 6.8 ... ... ...Philippines 5.8 4.4 9.3 6.6 ... ... ...Singapore 2.8 4.9 16.1 11.0 ... ... ...Thailand 6.0 7.8 9.4 11.0 ... ... ...
Industrial production
2 
Indonesia3-1.1 n.a. .8 n.a. -3.0 n.a. n.a.
Malaysia 4.6 9.3 1.8 3.9 .2 2.7 .8Philippines -6.1 -.1 -1.4 -8.7 -1.4 -1.4 n.a.Singapore 8.2 3.1 6.7 4.2 -8.5 -2.8 18.1Thailand 8.5 12.3 -.6 4.3 -4.3 9.6 -1.3
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staff estimate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
ASEAN Economic Indica tors:  Trade Balance
(Billions of U.S. dollars, s.a.a.r.)
Country 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Nov. Dec. Jan.
Indonesia 25.9 28.6 27.2 29.9 32.6 31.4 29.4
Malaysia 13.5 19.7 19.9 18.3 18.6 18.2 n.a.Philippines -.2 -1.7 -.4 -3.5 -6.8 -2.9 n.a.Singapore 8.7 16.2 18.7 17.2 12.9 24.9 12.2Thailand 2.7 4.2 3.7 1.4 7.1 -3.9 7.5
n.a.  Not available.
IV-30
ASEAN Economic Indicators:  CPI Inflation
(Percent change from year earlier, except as noted)
Country 20021200312003 2004
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Indonesia 10.0 5.1 6.1 5.5 5.1 4.8 4.6
Malaysia 1.7 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.0 n.a.Philippines 2.6 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.1 3.4 3.4Singapore .4 .8 .5 .7 .8 1.3 n.a.Thailand 1.6 1.8 1.9 1.6 1.8 1.2 2.2
1. December/December.
n.a.  Not available
In Mexico, recent data have confir med that the economy strengthened late last
year.  Real GDP surged almost 5 percent in the fourth quarter.  Output in the
manufacturing sector rose nearly 9 percent,  after contracting in the previous five
quarters.  Service-oriented sectors also  performed well, with sizeable gains in
wholesale and retail trade and in financial services.  In  contrast, output grew only
slightly in agriculture and constructi on.  Exports, which are heavily weighted
toward manufacturing, grew strongly in December and moved a bit higher inJanuary.
Limits on beef and chicken imports from the United States have pushed up food
prices this year, contributing to a runup in Mexican twelve-month consumer
price inflation to 4.5 percent in Fe bruary, versus the Bank of Mexico’s
2-4 percent target range.  Citing concerns that rising inflation expectations mayhave begun to affect sala ry negotiations, the Bank of Mexico tightened monetary
policy on February 20 for the first time in nearly a year, raising the "corto" (theshort position in the interbank market) to 29 million pesos from 25 millionpesos.  In response to the tightening a nd expectations of future moves, three-
month interest rates have risen 1 percentage point  on net since late January, to
nearly 6 percent.
IV-31
Mexican Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP11.8 2.0 .2 4.9 ... ... ...
Overall economic activity .7 1.4 .3 1.4 .5 n.a. n.a.
Industrial production -.4 -.7 -.9 1.8 .6 n.a. n.a.
Unemployment rate22.7 3.3 3.6 3.6 3.4 3.7 n.a.
Consumer prices3 5.7 4.0 4.1 4.0 4.0 4.2 4.6
Trade balance4-7.9 -5.6 -6.9 -4.2 -5.2 .4 n.a.
Imports4168.7 171.0 170.2 176.0 179.9 174.7 n.a.
Exports4160.8 165.4 163.3 171.9 174.7 175.1 n.a.
Current account5-14.0 -9.1 -8.3 -13.1 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less. 3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Brazil , incoming data have generally  suggested that the economy is
recovering.  Real GDP grew more than 6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2003. 
For the first time since Brazil’s 2002 cr isis, domestic dema nd was strong, with
private consumption rising 6 percent (a.r .) in the quarter.  However, industrial
output was roughly unchanged on aver age over the last two months and
unemployment remained high.  The extern al sector continued to perform well,
with Brazil recording sizeable trade surp luses in January and February, in part
reflecting high prices for th e country’s commodity exports.
Although twelve-month CPI inflation con tinued to decline, monthly inflation
rates in January and Februa ry were higher than expected.  The central bank held
its policy rate steady at 16.5 percent at its  January and February meetings, citing
its concern that year-end inflation coul d surpass the 5.5 percent midpoint of its
target range.  A scandal involving Pres ident Lula’s chief of staff has recently
raised concerns about the government’s  ability to advance its reform agenda.
IV-32
Brazilian Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP13.7 -.2 .4 6.1 ... ... ...
Industrial production 2.4 .3 1.9 3.1 -1.0 .8 n.a.Unemployment rate
212.5 12.4 13.0 13.2 13.1 11.6 n.a.
Consumer prices312.5 9.3 15.2 11.4 9.3 7.7 6.7
Trade balance413.1 24.8 26.8 28.2 31.6 25.5 28.1
Current account5-7.7 4.0 13.2 1.2 4.2 8.0 n.a.
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.  Break in October 2001 as a result of change in methodology.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.  Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Argentina , industrial production rose 3.2 pe rcent in January and was up
12 percent from its year-ear lier level, reflecting st rong domestic demand, and
unemployment has fallen.  Argentina ha s continued to run sizeable trade
surpluses, reflecting rapid growth in  agricultural exports; the economic rebound
has led to an even faster increase in imports, however, and the trade surplus hasnarrowed gradually.  Twelve -month consumer price inflation remained low in
February, at 2.3 percent.
On March 9, Argentina made a $3 billion debt payment to the IMF.  The
payment had been in doubt owing to statements made by the Argentinegovernment.  Argentina has met all of the quantitative criteria of its IMFprogram and has made advances in structural refo rms.  The country is lagging
behind in its debt restructuring efforts,  but there has been sufficient progress in
recent days that approval by the IMF Executive Board of the second review of
Argentina's IMF program is now expected.
IV-33
Argentine Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1 -3.3 n.a. 11.7 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -10.7 16.2 2.4 3.9 1.1 3.2 n.a.Unemployment rate
220.4 n.a. n.a. 16.4 ... ... ...
Consumer prices3 41.4 3.8 5.1 3.8 3.8 2.8 2.3
Trade balance416.7 15.6 15.1 11.9 12.4 11.6 n.a.
Current account59.6 n.a. 5.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.  Data for Greater Buenos Aires.  Data released semi-annually.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.
In Venezuela , the economy continued to recove r in the fourth quarter, on the
back of higher oil prices.  However, the political situation has deterioratedmarkedly in recent weeks, raising th e prospect of further macroeconomic
instability.  Real GDP rose 14 percent in the fourth quarter, bringing GDP toabout 5 percent below its peak before the devastating stri kes in late 2002-early
2003.  Oil production is still believed to be about 10 percent below the levels
prevailing before the strike.  On February 8, the currency was devalued17 percent, and anecdotal re ports indicate that inflati on expectations have risen
markedly.  Continued delays concerning whether President Chavez will berequired to face a recall referendum have  resulted in an escalation in political
and social tensions.
IV-34
Venezuelan Economic Indicators
(Percent change from previous period, s.a., except as noted)
Indicator 2002 20032003 2004
Q3 Q4 Dec. Jan. Feb.
Real GDP1 -16.7 9.0 18.2 17.4 ... ... ...
Unemployment rate216.0 n.a. 17.6 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices331.2 27.1 29.5 26.3 27.1 26.6 21.9
Non-oil trade balance4-8.5 -5.8 16.2 19.4 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance413.0 15.0 37.0 46.0 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account57.4 9.6 11.7 10.8 ... ... ...
1. Annual rate.  Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change from year-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions of U.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions of U.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a.  Not available.    ...  Not applicable.