Prefatory Note  
 
 
The attached document represents the most  complete and accurate version available 
based on original copies culled from the f iles of the FOMC Secretariat at the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syst em.  This electronic document was created 
through a comprehensive digitization proce ss which included identifying the best-
preserved paper copies, scanning those copies,1 and then making the scanned 
versions text-searchable.2   Though a stringent quality assurance process was 
employed, some imperfections may remain. 
 Please note that some material may have b een redacted from this document if that 
material was received on a confidential ba sis.  Redacted material is indicated by 
occasional gaps in the text or by gray boxe s around non-text content.  All redacted 
passages are exempt from disclosure under applicable provisions of the Freedom of 
Information Act.           
 
   
 
    
 
                                                            
 
1  In some cases, original copies needed to be photocopied before being scanned into electronic 
format.  All scanned images were deskewed (to rem ove the effects of printer- and scanner-introduced 
tilting) and lightly cleaned (to remove dark spots caused by staple holes, hole punches, and other 
blemishes caused after initial printing). 
 
2 A two-step process was used.  An advanced optical character recognition computer program (OCR) 
first created electronic text from the document im age.  Where the OCR results were inconclusive, 
staff checked and corrected the text as necessary.  Pl ease note that the numbers and text in charts and 
tables were not reliably recognized by the OCR process and were not checked or corrected by staff.  
Content last modified 6/05/2009. 
 
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
Part 2                                                                                         May 1, 2002
CURRENT ECONOMIC
AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
Recent Developments
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Confidential (FR)   Class III FOMC
                                                                                                            May 1, 2002
                
Recent Developments                          
Prepared for the Federal Open Market Committee
by the staff of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
Domestic Nonfinancial
Developments                          
Dom estic Nonfinancial Developm ents
Overview 
Economic  activity  increased rapidly  early this y ear, with r eal GDP now 
estimated to have risen at an annual rate of about 5- 3/4 percent in the first 
quarter. The improvement in economic conditions ex tended to the industrial 
sector, where production posted broad-ba sed g ains as inventory  adjustments 
slowed and spending  on hig h-tech g oods and consumer durables turned up. 
Althoug h the demand for labor has firmed a bit of late, hours fell ag ain in the 
first quarter, imply ing another substantia l increase in productivity . Despite the 
boost to headline inflation from the recent surge in energ y prices, core measures 
of inflation remain subdued. 
Real G ross Dom estic P roduct 
According  to the advance estimate pr epared by  the B ureau of Economic 
Analy sis (B EA), real GDP in creased at an annual rate of 5.8 percent in the first 
quart er. The accel eration from  the pace of nearl y 2 percent  recorded i n the 
fourth quarter was driven by  a marked  slowing  in the rate of inventory 
liquidation. Final sales increased at a bout a 2-1/2 percent rate in the first 
quarter, as siz able increases in spending  by households and g overnments were 
partially  offset by  another decline in business fix ed investment and a further 
sharp deterioration in real net ex ports. At this stag e, we do not anticipate any 
chang e to the advance GDP estimate. This assessment takes into account the 
monthly  construction data, which were released on May  1 and were weaker than 
the B EA had assumed, as well as our an ticipation of  a small upward revision to 
real net ex ports. 
Labor Mark et Devel opments 
Althoug h the larg e declines in pay roll employ ment appear to have ended, the 
economy  has not y et beg un to g enerate robust employ ment g ains. Private 
nonfarm pay roll employ ment was essentially  flat in February  and March after 
having  fallen 277,000 per month on averag e from October to J anuary . The 
unemploy ment rate rose 0.2 percentag e point in March, retracing  most of its 
decline in J anuary  and F ebruary . 
Nevertheless, some leading  indicators of  labor market cond itions did improve in 
March. The manufacturing  workweek ro se 0.4 hour, much of the rise due to 
increased overtime; the factory  workweek  is now up 3/4 hour from its troug h in 
November. In addition, employ ment in the help-supply  industry  rose 69,000 in 
March aft er a sm aller rise in February ; the back-t o-back i ncreases i n this sector 
represent the first g ains in nearly  a year and a half. Thoug h classified as a 
services industry , help supply  provides many  of its workers to the 
manufacturing  sector, where employ ment losses have abat ed of late as well. 
Turning to Apr il, our  reading of initia l claims f or unemploy ment insur ance in 
recent  weeks has been com plicated by  the federal  temporary  extended 
II-2
II-3
II-4
II-5
unemploy ment compe nsation pr ogram (TEUC). The law required some TEUC 
claimants to file new claims for stat e unemploy ment benefits even thoug h they 
were not e ligible for further regular state benefits, a nd this c ontributed to initia l 
claims jumping  to 492,000 in the week ended March 30.1 By the week ended 
April 20, claims had fallen back to 421,000.2 The TEUC prog ram also appears 
to ha ve raised the  level of insured unemploy ment, as individuals nearing  the 
expiration of their state benefits—but assu red of up to thirteen additional weeks 
of benefits from TEUC—may have searched less intensively  for jobs than they 
otherwise would have. The data provi ded by  the Employ ment and Training 
Administr ation show tha t some  states continue d to r eport the filing of TEUC-
induced initial claims for the week e nded April 20, but the sharp drop-off in 
claims since the end of March leads us to believe that the influence of TEUC on 
initia l claims will la rgely disappear within the  next few we eks. None theless, the 
effect of the program on the  unemploy ment rate is like ly to pe rsist thr ough the 
end of the y ear. 
Althoug h the ex act effect of the TEUC prog ram is difficult to g auge, we think 
that most of the recent rise in initial claims and insured unemploy ment reflects 
this special factor rather than a pic kup in the pace of lay offs. Indeed, lay off 
announcements compiled by  the outplacem ent firm Challeng er, Gray , and 
Christmas, I nc., and by  Board staff ha ve decl ined from  the peaks recorded i n 
September and October. In March, the Challeng er series stood at about the 
average level prevailing during the first half of last year. Over the eight months 
in whi ch it has been com piled, the Board st aff’s l ayoff seri es has t rended 
downward, broadly  in line with the Challe nger series, and was at a low level in 
April. 
Other indicators of developments in the labor market have be en mix ed of late. 
The help-wanted inde x inched up in Ma rch but is little  changed from its tr ough 
in November. Current employ ment cond itions, as measured by  the Conference 
Board, have firmed only  a little in recen t months. However, ex pectations of 
employ ment conditions, as measured by  both the Mi chigan Survey  Research 
1. Specif ically , under the TEUC law, individuals whose “benefit year” ex pired af ter March 
15, 2001, are elig ible to receiv e TEUC benefits if they file a n ew claim  for regular UI ben efits 
between March  15, 2001, an d the end of this year, w hen the TEUC prog ram ends. The “benefit 
year” is th e twelve months following the first payment of UI benefits. The TEUC prog ram 
extends the duration of unemployment insurance benefits by half the len gth of state b enefits. For 
the week ended A pril 6, pers ons receiv ing benefits from the TEUC prog ram numbered 
1.2 million, approximately  the number receiv ing assistan ce one month after th e enactm ent of a 
similar prog ram in November 1991. 
2. Beginning with the April 11 unemployment insurance release, th e Em ployment and 
Training Administratio n began seaso nally adjusting initial claim s and insured unemployment 
using a procedure developed at th e Board. Revised data show the rise an d fall in both initial 
claim s and insured unemployment in the last tw o quarters to  have been less p recipitous than 
originally published. 
II-6
Center and t he Conference Board, ha ve improved sig nificantly  and have 
retraced all their losses since the middle of 2000. 
The B ureau of L abor Statistics will re lease its advance es timate of productivity 
for the first quarter on May  7. Based on the NI PA output data and the available 
data on hours, we estimate that output per hour in the nonfarm business sector 
increased at an annual rate of about 8-1/ 2 percent in the first quarter after having 
risen more than 5 percent in the fourth  quarter—making  the two-quarter g ain the 
largest since the early  1980s. Rapid in creases in productivity  in the initial 
Labor  Out put per Hour
(Percent ch ange from preceding  perio d at co mpound annua l rate;
based on season ally adjusted data)
Sector 20001 20011,4 2001 2002 
Q3 Q44 Q14 
Nonfarm businesses 
All persons2 2.6 2.0 1.1 5.5 8.4 
All employees 2.3 2.0 1.2 5.8 7.3 
Nonfinancial corp oration s3 2.9 2.7 .9 10.5 n.d. 
1. Changes are f rom the fourth quarter of  the precedin g year to th e fourth quarter of 
the year shown. 
2. Includes non-employees (p ublished definition). 
3. The nonfinancial corporate s ector con sists o f all co rporations doing business in 
the Un ited States  with the exception  of banks, stock and com modity  brok ers, and 
finance an d insurance com panies; the sector accou nts for abou t two-thirds of business 
employment. 
4. Staf f estimate. 
quarters of an economic upturn are not  unusual because employ ers, having 
hoarded labor during  the downturn, can  increase output without a similar 
increase in hours. But the recent g ain in productivity  has been g reater than 
histor ical relationships would sug gest, the reby raising  a numbe r of possibilitie s. 
First, businesses may  have been surprise d by the streng th of demand during  the 
winter. Moreover, they  may  still be un certain about the durability  and vig or of 
the recovery  going forward. If so, the recent productivity  performance would 
represent only  a temporary  departure from its long er-term structural trend. 
Some evidence that businesses—particularly  non-manufacturing  firms—were 
surprised by  the upturn in demand appear ed in a recent survey  conducted by  the 
National Association of Business Economists. More than half of the 
respondents reported that demand since Oc tober has ex ceeded the ex pectations 
that they form ed in Oct ober, and t hree-fourt hs of t hose whose dem and ex ceeded 
expectations reported that they  had me t the increase i n dem and by  increasi ng 
productivity . However, we doubt that a ll of the recent productivity  performance 
II-7
can be attributed to these factors. Thus , we are also inferring  that the rate of 
increase in structural productivity  has been  faster than we previously  assumed. 
Indust rial P roduc tion 
Output in the industrial sector rose 0.7 percent in March, its third consecutive 
monthly  gain. Increases were wide spread across market g roups and among 
industries. For the first quarter as a whole, production ex panded at an annual 
rate of 2-1/2 percent afte r having  dropped nearly  7 pe rcent in the fourth quarter 
of 2001. Capacity  utiliz ation in manufacturing  rose ha lf a percentag e point in 
March, to about 74 percent,  but remains 7 percentag e points below its long -run 
(1967 to 2001) averag e. 
The production of motor vehicles av eraged 12.2 million units (annual rate) in 
the first quarter and appare ntly was slig htly above th is level in April. With 
days’ supply  of vehicles near comfor table levels for GM and F ord, and 
somewhat lean for other manufacturers, a ssemblie s are scheduled to r emain 
above 12 million units in May  and J une. Elsewhere in transportation, the 
production of aircraft and pa rts fell ag ain in March; fo r the first quarter as a 
whole, output dropped at an annual rate of about 30 percent, following  a similar 
decline in the fourth quarter of 2001.     
     . 
Produc tion of D omestic Autos and Tr ucks 
(Millio ns of units  at an annua l rate except as noted; FRB s easonal basis) 
Item 2001 2002 
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. 1 
U.S. pr oduction 11.6 11.6 12.2 12.1  12.3 12.1 12.4 
Autos  4.7  4.8  5.2  5.1  5.5  5.2  5.3 
Trucks  6.9  6.8  6.9  7.1  6.8  6.9  7.1 
Days' supply2 
Autos  49.1 38.3 51.1 49.4  51.2 47.9 n.a. 
Ligh t trucks3 74.0 52.3 61.8 65.6  60.0 61.6 n.a. 
Inventories4 2.69 2.27 2.41 2.34 2.42 2.41 n.a. 
Note. C omponents may not sum to totals  becau se of rounding. 
1. Production rates ref lect W ard’s Communicatio ns’ latest estim ates f or April. 
2. Qu arterly  average calcu lated u sing end-of-period s tocks and average reported s ales. 
3. Ex cludes medium and heavy (classes 3-8) trucks. 
4. En d-of-period stocks; excludes medium and heavy (class 3-8) trucks. 
n.a. Not av ailable. 
II-8
II-9
The production of hig h-tech g oods increas ed 1.4 percent in March. During  the 
first quarter, hig h-tech output surged at an annual rate of  17 percent, driven by  a 
recovery  in the production of  semiconductors. The streng th of the revival in this 
industry  going forward is uncertain. The book-to-bill ratio for semiconductor 
equipment manufacturers in March ex ceeded 1 for the first time since 
November 2000. Industry  contacts indicate that inventories held by  customers 
are at  desirable levels, except for som e segments of the com munications 
equipment industry . They  caution, howev er, that a sig nificant share of this 
recent  increase i n orders m ight be the resu lt of invent ory restocking rather than a 
sustained pickup in demand for downstream equipment. 
The recent performance of industrie s downstream from semiconductors has 
been mix ed. The output of computers rose at an annual rate of nearly  20 percent 
in the first quarter. Althoug h the pr oduction of communications equipment rose 
in March for the first time since Septem ber 2000, M3 orders fe ll substantially  in 
March, and industry  contact s remain pessimistic about  prospects for demand in 
the near t erm. 
The output of consumer durables othe r than motor vehicles has risen 
appreciably  in recent months, in part b ecause of a sharp rise in the production of 
appliances. In response to both the continued streng th in housing  starts and lean 
inventories, the production of construction supp lies has also increased 
noticeably . Meanwhile, the production of  business equipment has been moving 
sideway s after having  fallen considerably  in 2001. 
The few available data for April poi nt to another increase in monthly 
production. The weekly  physical pr oduct data should contribute about 
0.2 percentag e point to the chang e in IP, mainly  on the streng th of motor vehicle 
assemblies and electricity  generation; ex cluding  these two industries, the weekly 
physical product data have no net effect on I P growth. The staff’s series on real 
adjusted durable g oods orders fell 2-1/2 percent in March but rose 2-1/2 percent 
in the first quart er as a whol e.3 The I nstitute for Supply  Manag ement’s 
diffusion index  of new orders retreated  in Apri l from  the fifteen-y ear hi gh 
reached i n March but  remained com fortably within the reg ion associ ated wi th an 
expanding  industrial sector. The new orders index  from the B usiness Outlook 
Survey  conducted by  the F ederal Reserv e Bank of Philadelphia, which has also 
proved useful as an indicator of n ear-term manufact uring output, increased in 
April and ha s been positive  for four consecutive  months. By contrast, 
3. The number of  large semiconductor m anufacturers choosing not to participate in  the M3 
survey increas ed in  March . As a con sequence, th e Census Bureau can no longer produ ce 
monthly estimates of semiconductor shipments, orders , and inventories, and the durable goods 
aggregates no longer include semiconductor data. We have adjusted our orders series to remove 
semiconductor orders  from prev ious months. Because semiconductors are not con sidered capital 
goods , this change has no effect on shipments and orders  of nondefense capi tal goods . 
II-10
II-11
New  Orders for Du rable Good s 
(Percen t change from p receding period except as n oted; season ally adjusted) 
Component Share, 
2001: 
H1 
(percen t) 2001 2002 
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. 
Total orders 100.0 1.1 .6 .9 2.7 -.6 
Adjus ted orders1 71.0 -1.4 2.2 3.3 -.9 -2.6 
Computers 4 .0 8.5 -.4 4.5 -3.2 -3.3 
Communication equipment 3.0 4.3 4.5 12.2 1.3 -15.1 
Other cap ital good s 23.0 -2.9 -.7 -1.5 1.7 -1.7 
Other2 37.0 -1.9 4.2 5.4 -2.3 -2.1 
Memo: 
Real adjusted orders  . . . -.6 2.6 3.1 -.6 -2.5 
Excluding high tech  . . . -2.1 2.6 3.5 -.8 -2.9 
1. Orders excluding defense capi tal goods , nondefense aircraf t, and motor vehicle 
parts. 
2. Includes prim ary metals, most fabricated m etals, most stone, clay , and glass 
produ cts, household appl iances, scientific instruments, and miscellaneous durable goods . 
. . . Not applicable. 
manufacturing  layoff announcements rose in  April after having  declined earlier 
in the  year; layoffs were split e venly between the  high-tech sector and 
manufacturers outside th e high-tech sect or. 
Business In ventories 
According  to the advance GDP releas e, real nonfarm inventories ex cluding 
motor vehicles contracted at an annua l rate of $39 billion in the first quarter 
after having  fallen $78 billion in th e fourth quarter. The B EA estimate 
incorporates the book value data for the manufacturing  and trade sector in 
January  and F ebruary , which showed a li quidation (ex cluding  motor vehicles) of 
$48 billion, on averag e—just about half th e fourth-quarter pace. The only  hard 
data for March are for durable g oods  manufacturers, where stocks fell 
$34 billion in book value terms, larg ely because of a steep drop in aircraft 
inventories; the liquidation in March was about the sa me as the averag e since 
the middle of last y ear. 
Althoug h some industries still appear  to be weig hed down by  excessive 
holding s, the inventory  situation seems to have improved ove r the past couple of 
months. Data from the staff’s flow-of-g oods sy stem, which classifies 
inventories by  the ty pe of product, reg ardless of where it is held in the 
distribution channel, point toward a few areas in which day s’ supply  ratios 
II-12
II-13
Status of  Inventory Overhangs 
Inventory overh ang Products 
None evident Chemicals and pr oducts; petroleum 
products; ston e, clay , and glass; fab ricated 
metals; tran sportation  equipment; 
instruments 
Largely  elimin ated Electron ic comp onents (in cluding 
semiconduc tors); computer and office 
equipment; tex tiles; lu mber an d wood 
products; rubbe r and pl astics; indus trial 
mach inery excl. comp uting equipment; 
miscellaneous manufactures 
Evident but som e 
improvement Apparel; fu rniture an d fixtures; printing and 
publishing; primary metals 
Evident and little 
improvement Communications equipment; paper and 
products; electrical mach inery excluding 
high-tech equipment 
Source. FRB staff flow-of-goods  inventory system. 
remain elevated and continue to ex hibit little improvemen t: paper products, 
communications equi pment, and el ectrical machinery excluding high-tech 
equipment.4 For some other products, inve ntories remain hig h but have 
retreated, most notably  apparel, furnitu re and fix tures, printing  and publishing , 
and pr imary metals.5 By market g roup, the day s’ supply  ratios for consumer 
goods and for intermediate products (particularly  construc tion supplies) have 
fallen sharpl y in recent  months, and ex cessive invent ories appear t o have been 
elimina ted. The inve ntory-consumption r atio for materials has impr oved 
considerably , but the day s’ supply  meas ure for business equipment, althoug h 
down from  its recent  peak, rem ains elevated. 
4. The FRB staff’s fl ow-of-goods  system measures changes in inventories by tracking the 
flow of goods  in the econ omy. The system divides the output from the staff’s i ndustrial 
produ ction  indexes into more than seventy produ ct categ ories . For each  produ ct categ ory, the 
system estimates the supply of goods  flowing into the econ omy—that is, dom estic produ ction 
plus imports . The system then estimates how much of the supply flows out, whether as final 
demand, including exports, or as  inputs for other goods . The difference bet ween the am ount 
flowing in and the amount flowing out represents that change in inventories. We find inventory 
accumulation  if inflows exceed ou tflows and inventory liquidation  if outflows exceed in flows. 
5. In the March  2002 G reenbook , industrial machinery excluding com puting equipment was 
included in the “evident but some improvement” categ ory, but this industry has since larg ely 
eliminated its  overhang problem . 
II-14
II-15
Consum er Spending 
Consumer spending  has been well mainta ined of late after having  posted big 
increases around the turn of the y ear. Expenditures on motor vehicles have been 
robust—albeit not as hig h as in the fourth quarter—and outlay s on other g oods 
and services have ex panded br iskly . All told, real PCE rose at an annual rate of 
3-1/2 percent in the first quarter; ex cluding  motor vehicles, PCE was up at a 
6 percent  pace. 
Sales of lig ht motor vehicles edg ed up in March to an a nnual rate of 16.7 million 
units, bring ing the averag e for the first quarter to 16.3 million units, about 
1 million units hig her than the  automa kers had anticipated at the beginning  of 
the y ear. Industry  contacts report that sa les were brisk in April. Since the 
middle of September, the automakers have supported sales throug h aggressive 
incent ive packag es, whi ch are ex pected to persist in the  near term. These 
incentive prog rams are also reflected in  the above-averag e assessments of car-
buying conditions in the Michig an Su rvey Research Center’s report on 
consumer sentiment. Cons umers have cited g ood pri ces and interest rates as 
reasons why  it is a g ood time to buy  a car. 
Outside of cars and trucks, the rise in consumption in the first quarter was broad 
based. Spending  for durable g oods othe r than motor vehicles advanced at an 
annual rate of more than  14 percent—a pace not s een since early  2000—led by 
sizable increases in spending  on com puters and household furnishing s. In 
addition, ex penditures for nondurable g oods rose at a rate of nearly 
8-1/2 percent, with particul arly large increases in ou tlays for food and apparel. 
Outlays for servi ces al so were rel atively strong, up at  a 3-3/ 4 percent  pace, i n 
part because of a rebound in spending  on energ y services. 
The recent  strength in consum er spendi ng has been dri ven i n part  by sizable 
gains in income. Indeed, according to the B EA’s advance estimate, real 
disposable income rose at an annual rate  of 10-1/2 percent in the first quarter. 
This increase refl ected in large part  the effect s of l ast year’s t ax legislation and 
cost-of-living  adjustme nts in g overnment transfer prog rams, and it broug ht the 
increase in real DPI  over the y ear ending in the first quarter to about 4 percent. 
Moreover, the incoming  data on pe rsonal income tax collections in Apr il 
suggest that real DPI  may  have risen even  more rapidly  in the first quarter than 
II-16
II-17
II-18
II-19
the BEA fi gure indicates.6 In the  first qua rter, the wealth-to-income ratio wa s 
little chang ed at 5.3, about where it has been since early  2001. 
The Mi chigan Survey  Research C enter’s overall index  of consumer confidence 
rebounded early  this y ear to levels last seen in la te 2000, while recent reading s 
from the Conference B oard’s index  are the hig hest since mid-2001. Althoug h 
both confidence measures ticked down in April, the index es stand close to their 
averag es over t he past  decade, at  levels consi stent with moderat e increases i n 
overall consumer spending . 
Housing Mark ets 
Starts of sing le-family  homes jumped to a 23-y ear hig h of 1.47 million units in 
February  but fell back in March, to an  annual rate of 1.30 million units. Permit 
issuance for sing le-family  construction—a djusted to include construction in 
areas where permits are not required—d ecreased in March to about the same 
level as starts. Meanwhile, the backlo g of unused sing le-family  permits edg ed 
down toward the middle of its rang e over th e past y ear and a half. The F ebruary 
peaks in sta rts and pe rmits a ppear to be  outlie rs, even whe n compa red with the 
brisk pace of activity  in recent y ears; unusually  mild weather conditions 
probably  explain part of the jump, and a return to nor mal weather in Ma rch 
drove part of the dropoff in starts in that month. Nevertheless, with support 
from relatively low mor tgage rates, a high backlog of permits, a nd a tight 
inventory  level, the pace of starts in March remained above the averag e for last 
year. 
The contract rate on thirty -year fix ed-rate conventional mortg ages now stands a 
bit be low 7 pe rcent, and initia l rates on a djusta ble-rate mortgages are a bit be low 
5 percent. Partly reflecting these low r ates, home buying attitude s, as measured 
by the Michig an survey , remained robus t in April, and the latest four-week 
averag e from  the Mort gage Bankers Associ ation index  of mortg age applications 
for hom e purchases was at  a record hi gh. 
New home sales have modera ted from the very  strong  pace in late 2001 and in 
March stood at an annua l rate of 878,000 units. Existing  home sales fell 
8-1/4 percent in March, to an annual rate of 5.4 million units, following  a record 
6. Under the BEA’s normal procedures, its in itial estim ate o f personal tax  payments in the 
first quarter is based on an assumption abou t April’s final payments, which are sp read through 
the year. This year, A pril co llectio ns are m uch lower than would be consisten t with the BEA’s 
assumption. In the Green book  proj ection  we therefore as sume that the BEA will rev ise up the 
change in real DPI for the first quarter to an annua l rate of about 14 percent and will raise the 
saving rate to  2-3/4 percent, compared with its advance es timate of  abou t 2 percen t. How ever, 
on April 26, th e BEA also indicated th at state u nemployment insurance records  poin t to a 
$90 billion  smaller in creas e in wages and salaries  in 2001 th an is currently embedded in  the 
NIPA. 
II-20
II-21
high in J anuary  and a surprising ly strong level in F ebruary . Some of the 
move ments in home  sales this y ear may owe  to shif ts in the  timing  of contract 
signings and closing s caused by  the ev ents of September 11. Sales of new 
homes, whi ch are recorded at  signing, peaked i n Novem ber and Decem ber; and 
sales of ex isting hom es, whi ch are record ed mostly  at closing , piled up two 
months later. These postponements tran sferred sales into the winter months 
when seasonal factors—which anticipated  weak sales—provided a larg e boost. 
All told, the sol id pace of sal es of bot h new and ex isting hom es in March 
suggests continued streng th in housing  demand. 
House prices have been rising  briskly of late, like ly reflecting the strength in 
demand. Among  the various measures of  house price increases, the constant-
quality and repeat-sales inde xes are probably the most use ful.7 When defl ated 
by the PCE pr ice inde x, the consta nt-quality inde x of new home  prices rose 
4-1/2 percent over the y ear ending  in the first quarter, the most rapid real 
increase i n the past  twenty years.8 In the fourth quarter of last y ear, the real 
repeat -sales index  of ex isting hom e prices increased 5-3/ 4 percent  from  a year 
earlier.9 This rise in the repeat -sales pr ice index  was among  the more rapid in 
the hi story of the seri es, but  it was sl ower t han t he year-over-y ear increases 
recorded i n each of t he four precedi ng quart ers. The decel eration in repeat -sales 
prices was especially  pronoun ced in the Pacific reg ion. 
Turning  to the multifamily  sector, starts  rose about 9 percent in March to an 
annual rate of 343,000 units, as cons truction rebounded following  a drop in 
February . The averag e level of star ts in the first quarter was 340,000 units, 
similar to the pace of construction s een over 2001 as a whole. Available 
indic ators sug gest tha t market conditions f or multif amily rental units ha ve 
deteriorated over t he past  year. In the first quart er, the vacancy  rate for 
multifamily  rental units rose to the hi ghest level since the late 1980s, and was 
only a touch below the peak in the 34-y ear history  of the series. Furthermore, 
property  values for multifamily  housing  did not increase last y ear for the first 
time since mid-1993, and the averag e year-over-y ear increase in nominal rent, 
7. Transaction  prices —such as the average and median prices  of new homes—can  be 
mislead ing because they register th e effects o f compositional changes both in the quality 
of the houses so ld and in the geographic co mposition of sales, w hich can be a problem 
owing to th e substantial price dif ferences among regions. The average and median prices  of 
existing homes can  also reflect ch anges in the quality of homes sold, but they are co mputed with 
fixed regional weights. 
8. The constant-quality new home price in dex uses reg ressio n tech niques to estim ate 
how the price h as changed for a house with structural an d location al characteris tics typical 
of houses built in 1996, th e bas e period f or the index. 
9. The repeat- sales price in dex for existing homes com putes the change in house prices  from 
pairs  of prices  that are g enerated w hen the same house is resold or ref inanced. How ever, this 
index reflects any factors  that alter th e value of the property  betw een the two “sale” dates , 
including improvements, structural deterioration, or ch anges in the neighborhood. 
II-22
II-23
as measured by  the Nat ional Real Estate Index , was only  3/4 percent, the 
smallest rise since early  1992.10 More recent ly, anecdot al report s have not ed 
rent concessions by  landlor ds in se veral metropolita n areas. 
Business F ixed Investm ent 
Equipm ent and soft ware. Real outlay s on equipmen t and software were about 
unchang ed in the first quarter after ha ving fallen at an annual rate of about 
5 percent in the fourth quarter. Real spending  for computer equipment rose at 
an annual rate of nearly 40 percent—the second larg e quarterly  increase in a 
row— and outlay s for communications equi pment were about flat after a series 
of hug e declines. Business spending  on both motor vehicles and aircraft 
decreased sharpl y. Excluding the hi gh-tech and transportation categ ories, 
spending  rose moderately . 
New orders for nondefense capital g oods excluding  aircraft fell more than 
3 percent in March after ha ving posted small increases in January  and F ebruary . 
Althoug h the recovery  in real comput er spending  appears to be on track, 
booking s for communications equipment plung ed in March after two months of 
increases and once ag ain have fallen belo w shipme nts. Outside  of the high-tech 
sector, orders (ex cluding aircraft ) decreased nearl y 2 percent  in March and were 
down nearly  1 percent for the first quarter  as a whol e. These decl ines are ful ly 
explained by  a steep drop in orders for engines and turbines. Due to the long 
delivery lags for engines and tur bines, however, the decline in their orders 
convey s little information a bout equipment spending  in the current quarter. 
Business demand for motor vehicles seem s to be  firming  in the  most r ecent 
months. Fleet sales of lig ht vehicles moved up ag ain in March and, at an annual 
rate of 3 million units, we re only  a touc h below the  average for all of last year.11 
Sales of medium and heavy trucks remained flat in March at an annual rate of 
460,000 units, the same rate seen in both the fourth quarter and the first quarter. 
Orders for the larg est trucks (class 8 trucks) sky rocketed in March. Industry 
analysts attribute  this r un-up to a  shift in the  timing  of purchases to avoid buy ing 
trucks with modif ied engines to me et EPA r equirements. In a court settlement, 
manufacturers ag reed to beg in selling  engines as of October 1, 2002, that pass 
10. T his rent index differs considerably  from the CPI rent index. The NR EI series measures 
rents as rep orted by institutional investors in apartment buildings, whereas th e CP I index covers 
not only apart ment buildings but also small propert ies and single-family homes. From mid-1992 
through e arly last year, the NREI index increased much more rapidly than the CPI rent index, but 
it has since decelerated s harply . 
11. B ig Three fleet sales are reported to u s on a con fidential bas is; sales by other firms are 
estimated by  the staff. 
II-24
II-25
II-26
II-27
emission requirements when in actual ope ration or to face fines of about $7,000 
per engine sold. Trucking firms believe that these new engines will de liver 
poorer performance and be mo re costly  to maintain. 
Nonresidential construction. Spending  on nonresid ential construction 
declined sharpl y again in the first quart er, wi th sizable decreases i n expendi tures 
for industrial structures, office buildin gs, lodg ing facilities, and drilling  and 
mining .12 Moreover, advance indicators poi nt to further weakness. For 
example, according  to estimates from To rto W heaton, vacancy  rates for office 
and industrial building s continued to rise sharply  in the first quarter, owing  in 
part to a furt her cont raction in occupi ed space for bot h types of st ructure. The 
deterioration in the office sector ha s been especially  pronounced in hig h-
technolog y areas, where space is availa ble for sublease at  very  low rent. 
Conditions in the non-office commercial sect or have also worsened, as property 
values and rents for both retail space a nd warehouses fell appreciably  in the 
fourth quarter. 
Expenditures for drilling  and mining  fell at an annual rate of 44 percent in the 
first qua rter, after an even larger drop in the  fourth qua rter. Drilling  activity  for 
petroleum and partic ularly  natural g as has not y et responded to hig her energ y 
prices. One reason m ay be that, despi te the recent  upturn, nat ural gas prices 
remain far bel ow the levels seen earl y last year. In recent  months, the num ber 
of oil drilling  rigs in operation has been  about flat, and the number of g as rigs 
has declined. Constr uction outla ys by public  utilitie s declined 2 pe rcent in the 
first quart er. 
Govern ment Sector 
Federal sector.  The federal g overnment r ecorded a $64 billion deficit in 
March, a consi derabl y larger defi cit than was recorded l ast year, m ostly 
reflecting weak recei pts. Overal l spendi ng was rest rained by  decl ines in net 
interest pay ments, which offset robust increases in most other 
categ ories—particularly  defe nse and i ncom e securi ty.13 
Receipts in March were about 15 percen t lower than in March of 2001, with 
weakness ex hibited across the board. Individual income and payroll ta xes were 
down almost 12 percent, reflecting  a surg e in individual tax  refunds, as well as 
declines in withheld and nonwithheld tax payments. Corporate tax  payments 
were well below last y ear’s levels, as g ross pay ments fell and refunds rose. The 
12. A fter tak ing into accou nt the con struction data  for March , we estimate th at real s pending 
on nonresidential construction declined at an annua l rate of almost 18 percent. The BEA’s 
advance es timate h ad included a 20 percen t declin e. 
13. Part of the increas e in income security reflects a surge in the earn ed income and child 
tax cred its, th e refundable portion of which is deemed outlays. 
II-28
II-29
II-30

II-31
decline in corporat e tax recei pts refl ects a com bination of weak corporat e profi ts 
and t he recent ly enact ed invest ment expensi ng provi sions, whi ch retroactively 
lowered corporate tax  liabilitie s back to September 11, 2001. 
Accordi ng to Dai ly Treasury  Statements, the short fall in recei pts cont inued i nto 
April. Nonwithheld individual income tax payments, which are larg ely final 
payments on 2001 tax  liabilities,  were well below the leve l recorded last y ear. 
Cumulative receipts by  the end of April were about 35 percent lower than last 
year. Althoug h returns are still being  processed, pay ments in May  are unlikely 
to be able to make up much  of this shortfall. 
This downturn in final pay ments is mu ch larg er than can be ex plained by 
changes in the  tax law, and collections a re significantly lowe r than the  CBO and 
the OMB  had projected. While  confirming  data will not be  available for some 
time, we suspe ct that a drop in c apital gains realizations is a  key factor behind 
the short fall. One pi ece of evi dence poi nting in this direction is a sharp decl ine 
in capital g ains realiz ations from mutu al funds recorded for 2001. Althoug h 
realiz ations from mutual funds repr esent only  a small share of tax able 
realiz ations, they  have been a useful i ndicator of total capital gains realizations 
in recent  years. 
The President submitted a $27 billion suppl emental spending  packag e for fiscal 
year 2002, with $14 billion allocated to defense. We expect the Cong ress to 
pass some  form of the bill this spr ing. The  House  has passed the 
Administration’s budg et request for fis cal 2003; the Senate has y et to pass a 
budg et resolution for 2003. 
State an d local govern ments. According to the  BEA’s advance estimate, real 
spending  on consumption and g ross inves tment by  state and local g overnments 
increased at an annual rate of 5-1/2 percent in the first quarter, althoug h 
subse quent da ta for constr uction sug gest tha t the increase will be  revised down 
to about 4-1/4 percent. After factoring in the new data, we estimate that real 
spending  on construction rose at an annual rate of near ly 20 percent in the first 
quarter, a bit more than the increase ove r 2001 as a whole. Real outlay s for 
consumption items, which represent the current ex penditures of these 
governments, rose 2-1/4 percent (annual rate) in th e first quarter, down from a 
gain of nearly  4 percent during  the s econd half of 2001; the slowing  probably 
owed in part to budg et-cutting  actions  in many  states and localities. 
For several quarters, states have b een reporting  reduced revenue collections 
along  with overruns in spending , partic ularly  for Medicaid, and many  states 
projected budg etary  deficits in their general fund accounts if no actions were 
taken. However, most states have pl anned or undertaken remedies, and the 
National Conference of S tate Legislatures reported in mid-April that states have 
generally  been successful in  addressing  pressures on th is year’s budg ets. For 
II-32
II-33
fiscal 2002, which ends on J une 30 in most states, forty  states made or ex pect to 
make ex penditure cuts, almost forty  states tapped or ex pect to tap other funds 
(rainy-day, speci al/dedicated, tobacco, a nd other), and eig ht states raised or 
expect to raise tax es or fees or both. Many  state anal ysts think that the 
weakness in revenue collec tions will bottom out in the second quarter of 2002, 
and they  are looking  for receipts to beg in to show g ains this summer. Even so, 
the level of receipts is ex pected to re main subdued, and states continue to be 
concerned about fiscal 2003. Hence, along  with budg et cuts and fund transfers, 
more than hal f the states are pl anning to raise tax es or fees nex t year. 
Prices 
Althoug h hig her energ y prices pushed up headline consumer price inflation in 
March, inflation g enerally  looks to be  on a downward trajectory . Both the 
overal l CPI and t he PCE chai n-type pri ce index  have decel erated not ably over 
the past  year. In part , the sm aller increases refl ect the sharp decl ines in energ y 
prices over most of this period: The PCE chain-ty pe price index  increased only 
0.8 percent over the twelve months to March, while the CPI  increased 
1.5 percent. Excluding  food and energ y, inflation has also fallen over the past 
year. This slowing  has been more pr onounced in the PCE price index  than in 
the CPI . Over the past twelve months , the core P CE pri ce index  increased j ust 
1.1 percent, down from a 1.7 percent incr ease over the preceding  twelve-month 
period. The core CPI  has increased 2.4 percent over the past twelve months, 
down from a 2.7 percent increase over the preceding  year. 
Consumer energ y prices rebounded after th eir substantial declines last y ear. 
Reflecting  a surg e in g asoline prices, th e CPI  for energ y jumped 3.8 percent in 
March, and weekly  data point to further increases t hroug h earl y Apri l. These 
recent g asoline price hikes have totale d about 30 cents per g allon since early 
March, reflecting  higher crude oil cost s, strong  demand, and the shutdown of 
two refineries in the Midwest, which has created a major shor tfall in inve ntories 
of the reformulated g asolin e specific to that reg ion. Nevertheless, overall U.S. 
inventories of g asoline, including stocks of summer-blend reformulated 
gasoline, remain normal for the season. As a result, futures prices sug gest that 
gasoline prices have likely  peaked, a nd indeed retail g asoline prices have 
already  eased a penny  or two per g allon since early  April. Nonetheless, on a 
monthly-averag e basi s, survey s indicate subst antial increases i n bot h whol esale 
and retail gasoline  prices in Apr il. Consumer natural g as prices moved up 
0.8 percent in March, retracing  part of a decline in F ebruary . Althoug h natural 
gas inventories remain at record hig h levels for the season, spot prices have 
risen about 70 cents per million B TUs (mor e than 20 percent) from their level in 
mid- March. The  increase in spot pr ices may owe  to ma rket participants’ 
expectations of hig her demand for g as by industry  and electric utilities in lig ht 
of the streng th of the ec onomic recovery  thus far. 
II-34
II-35
Retail food prices rose at an annual rate of 3 percen t over the first three months 
of the y ear. Consumer prices for veg etables surg ed over this period, reflecting 
both lower winter acreag e and some me diocre g rowing  conditions. However, 
spring  acreag e, which beg an to be harveste d in early  April, is about in line with 
the previous spring , and during  April, new supplies have pushed down the 
staff’s weekly  index  of veg etable prices by more than 50 percent. Similarly , the 
CPI for meats, poultry , fish, and eg gs jumpe d in Ma rch, but this inc rease is 
likely  to be short lived g iven that s pot prices for beef, pork, and poultry  have 
fallen sharply  over recent weeks. Prices for other food items, including 
restaurant meals, have been well contai ned so far this y ear. Over the twelve 
months to March, the CPI  for food rose 2.6 percent, about 1/2 percentag e point 
less than over the previous y ear. 
Consumer prices other than food and en ergy have remained subdued. The core 
CPI edged up 0.1 percent in March after a 0.3 percent rise in F ebruary . Goods 
prices have been especially  soft. Prices of apparel have increased over the past 
two months, but the se reported inc reases likely reflected difficulties in se asonal 
adjustme nt; apparel prices are down 3 percent over the pa st year. Prices of new 
and used motor vehicles have continued to  fall as well. By contrast, prices of 
non-energ y services have accelerated over the past y ear, driven by  the housing 
sector. Owners’ equivalent rent a nd tenants’ rent have both increased 
4-1/2 percent over the past twelve m onths, and owners’ e quivalent rent in 
particular has accel erated not ably. The rat e of inflation of servi ces ot her than 
energ y and housing  has picked up slig htly over the past y ear. 
The PCE price index  for items other than  food and energ y has continued to rise 
by less than the core CPI . As noted  above, the PCE inde x decelerated notably 
more over the past y ear, and the diffe rence bet ween t he twelve-m onth chang es 
in these two index es, at 1-1/4 percent, is now ex ceptionally  large. Frequently , 
the portions of PCE that are outside the scope of the CPI  and for which market-
based pri ces are not  avai lable can ex plain a larg e part of the different behavior 
of the two price measures. In the pr esent  case, however, our “m arket -based” 
core PCE price index , which omits th ese imputed nonmarket components, has 
increased at a rate simila r to the  official core PCE pr ice inde x. Instead, 
differences bet ween t he core C PI and P CE price measures have been driven by 
three other factors, and these arg ue for putting  more—thoug h not ex clusive— 
emphasi s on t he PCE measure. 
First, the  fact that the PCE inde x is constr ucted using  a Fisher aggregation 
form ula whi le the CPI uses a fi xed-wei ght Laspeyres formula appears to have 
contributed to a slig htly larger differen ce over the past y ear than it did over the 
previ ous y ear. The P CE index ’s Fisher form ula is preferabl e because i t takes 
consumer substitution into account, while  the CPI ’s Laspeyres-based formula 
does not. Second, the index es for tenants’ rent and owners’ e quivalent rent have 
a muc h larger weight in the  CPI than in the  PCE inde x; thus, the  nota ble 
II-36
II-37
accel eration in these pri ces over t he past  year has had a l arger influence on t he 
CPI. Because we bel ieve that measur ement probl ems have g enerat ed wei ghts 
for housing  in the CPI  that are too larg e, we ag ain tend to prefer the sig nal 
coming  from the  PCE inde x.14 
The third—and apparently  most importa nt—factor has been the behavior of 
medical servi ces pri ces. PCE pri ces fo r phy sicians’ and hospital services are 
based m ainly on P PIs instead of C PIs, and i n recent  years t hese t wo measures 
have diverg ed striking ly. Over the tw elve months to March, for ex ample, the 
CPI for hospi tal servi ces increased 8 pe rcent, up from a 6-3/4 percent rise over 
the preceding  twelve-month period. By contrast, the P PI for hospital services 
only increased 2-1/2 percent over the pa st year, down from a 3-1/4 percent rise 
over the preceding  period. For phy sicians’  services, the CP I has decelerated 
about 1 percentag e point over the past y ear, while the P PI has decelerated nearly 
3 percentag e points.15 The effect s of t hese pri ce di fferences are m agnified by 
the fact  that medical servi ces have a m uch l arger wei ght in PCE because t he CPI 
is limited to households’ out-o f-pocket ex penditures. In general, we think that 
the PPI  index es do a better job than the CPI  index es in capturing  medical 
servi ces pri ces; but because t he recent differences have been so l arge, and 
because t he sm all increases i n the PPI index es seem  to be i nconsi stent with 
anecdot al evidence of ri sing heal th-care cost s, we hesi tate to wri te off t he CPIs 
for m edical servi ces ent irely. 
Broader pri ce index es have al so decel erated over t he past  year. The chai n-type 
price index  for GDP increased 1.3 per cent over the four quarters throug h 
2002:Q1, down 1 percentag e point from th e increase over the preceding  year. 
GDP prices have been affected by  last year’s drop in energ y prices, but even 
excluding  food and energ y, GDP  prices decelerated about 1/2 percentag e point 
over the past y ear. In addition to the drop in energ y prices and the slowing  in 
core PCE inflation, GDP prices have been held down by  a rapid decline in 
investment prices. Prices  of equipment and software  have decreased 2 percent 
over the past four quarters after having  fallen about 1-1/ 2 percent over the 
preceding  period. A notable deceleration in  software prices can account for that 
14. T he weights in the CPI are deriv ed from the con sumer ex penditure survey. Because the 
survey relies on respondents’ memory of their expenditures on many items, knowledge of the 
spending of other household members, and willingne ss to report expenditures that may be 
viewed as  embarras sing, the survey appears  to undercou nt expenditures on a wide variety of 
items. We believe that the weight of housing (and other items for which expenditures are 
measured m ore accu rately ) is therefore boos ted by  the undercou nting of such expenditures. 
15. For h ospital s ervices, a small part of  the difference betw een the PPI and CPI measures 
reflects the fact th at the PPI includes prices paid by  Medicare an d Medicaid, w hich have 
decelerated n otably  over the pas t year. These prices are n ot in the CPI’s scope becau se they are 
not paid by  consumers out of pock et. For ph ysician s’ services, the effect of  Medicare an d 
Medicaid on the P PI is no t kno wn, though anecd otal evid ence suggests that  a shar p deceler ation 
in these prices  could accou nt for much of the difference betw een the PPI and CPI measures. 
II-38
II-39
II-40
II-41
slowdown, while computer prices have  declined 18 percent over the past 
year—the same as the decline over the previous y ear. 
Althoug h inflation is slowing  according  to all indicators, survey  measures of 
expected inflation have continued to move up after a period of unusually  low 
readi ngs last autumn. Accordi ng to the Mi chigan survey , median one-y ear-
ahead inflation ex pectations were 2.8 per cent in April, about the same as had 
prevailed last summer and well above the reading s of 1 percent or lower in 
October and November. Longer-term in flation ex pectations have remained 
relatively low, however. The Mi chigan survey 's median five- to ten-year-ahead 
inflation ex pectations were also 2.8 per cent in April, a bit below the 3 percent 
levels from la st summe r. 
Outside of t he energ y area, few i nflationary  pressures appear t o be com ing from 
earlier stag es of processing . The PPI  for intermediate materials othe r than food 
and energ y moved up in March but is down more than 3 percent over the past 
year, and the PPI  for core crude materi als has dropped more than 6 percent over 
the past y ear. Since mid-March, indus trial commodity  prices have been little 
chang ed on balance after having  picked up earlier in the y ear. The Journal of 
Commerce  industrial price index  is about unchang ed since mid-March, thoug h a 
rise in steel scrap prices has pushed up the metals component of the index  since 
that time . 
Labor  Costs 
The employ ment cost index  for hourly  compensation of private industry  workers 
increased at an annual rate of 3.6 percen t over the three months ended in March. 
The wag es and salaries component rose at a 3.7 percent annua l rate, and benefits 
costs were up at a 4.4 percent rate.16 Over the past twelve months, the ECI  for 
compensation increased 3.9 percent—down about 1/4 percentag e point from its 
increase over the previous twelve-month period. Both the wag es and salaries 
index  and the benefits index  decelerat ed a similar amount. Among  the major 
components of benefits, employ ers’ hea lth insurance costs rose rapidly  again 
last quarter, bring ing the twelve-mont h chang e above 10 percent, up from an 
increase of about 8 percent over the year-earlier period. But these faster 
increases i n heal th insurance cost s were outweig hed by  a slowing  in the cost 
increases for other benefits.17 Nonproduction bonuses declined in the three 
months ended in March, bring ing the twel ve-month chang e in this component to 
16. R ounding of index levels and separate s easonal adj ustment can accou nt for the fact th at 
the indexes for wages and salaries and ben efits were bot h report ed to have increas ed m ore 
rapidly than the overall co mpensatio n index. 
17. With the exception of health  insurance, d etail o n the benefits co sts are u npublished and 
are prov ided by  the BLS on a con fidential bas is. 
II-42
II-43
0.8 percent—down from a 4 percent in crease over the preceding  period.18 
Increases in pa y rates for overtime work and for alternative shifts also slowe d 
over the past y ear. In addition, pension co sts decelerated over the past y ear, as a 
flattening  out of costs of defined c ontribution plans outweig hed a much faster 
pace of pay ments to defi ned benefi t plans that likely reflected the weakeni ng in 
the stock market. 
The i ncrease i n the EC I for heal th insurance cost s over t he past  year is roug hly 
in line  with sur vey evidence of this y ear’s premium inc reases in pr ivate 
employ er-sponsored health plans. Looking  forward to 2003, California’s public 
employ ees retirement sy stem—the nation’ s second larg est health-care purchaser 
behind the federal g overnment’s FEHB prog ram—has approved a hug e 
25 pe rcent inc rease in pr emiums f or its HMOs nex t year and a 20 percent 
increase for i ts PPOs. A vari ety of factors are said to be driving  recent and 
prospect ive prem ium increases, i ncluding cuts in Medicare reimbursements that 
necessi tate larger fee i ncreases from  other pay ers and a g eneral  increase i n 
demand for medical care, including prescription drug  expenditures. 
Compensation per hour in the nonfarm busin ess sector (CPH), which had surg ed 
in 2000, decelerated sharply  thereafter a nd rose a little less than the ECI  in 2001. 
In the first quarter, CPH likely  increased at an annual rate of about 
2-1/2 percent, bring ing the four-quart er chang e to 3-1/4 percent, somewhat 
lower t han i n the EC I. The m ain indicator used t o const ruct the recent  CPH 
figures is the monthly  series on av erage hourly  earning s of production or 
nonsupervisory  workers, which increased at  an annual rate of  only  2-1/2 percent 
over the first three months of the y ear. In addition, the B EA judg mentally 
adjusts the  compe nsation da ta in lig ht of lagged payroll inf ormation f rom 
unemploy ment insur ance tax records; the se data are muc h mor e compr ehensive 
than averag e hourly  earning s in that they  include such forms of compensation as 
bonuses and the value of stock option ex ercises.19 These unem ployment 
insurance records, whi ch are avai lable throug h the third quart er of l ast year, 
apparently  point to very  low pay roll gains la st year, whic h we  interpret as 
suggesting  that stock option ex ercise s slowed considerably ; the B EA has 
extrapolated those l ow readi ngs going forward throug h the first quarter of this 
year, helping  to account for the low CP H fig ures in the past few quarters. 
18. N onproduction bonuses in the EC I do n ot include grants or ex ercises of stock options. 
19. The unemployment insurance data are als o more com prehensive than average hourly 
earnings becau se they are n ot limited to produ ction  workers and cov er nearly  all n onfarm 
estab lishments. 
II-44
Domestic Financial
Developments                          
Domestic Financial Developments
Overview
Since the last FOMC meeting, mixed readings on the strength of the economicexpansion and comments by Fe deral Reserve officials led market participants to
trim substantially their expectations fo r policy tightening.  In addition, while
first-quarter corporate earnings reports mostly matched or exceededexpectations, they were marked by a notable lack of positive guidance on futuresales and profits.  These de velopments reinforced i nvestors’ sense that the
economic expansion may not be as buoyant as previously expected, leading to a
slump in equity prices and declines in interest rates on both Treasury and
corporate bonds. 
Domestic nonfinancial debt continued gr owing at a moderate rate, even though
business borrowing remained sluggish.  On the household side, the most recent
data suggest that borrowing has been we ll maintained, as hous eholds continue to
tap mortgage markets.  In addition, shor tfalls in tax rece ipts and increased
spending have prompted an expansion of  federal government  debt so far this
year. 
Interest Rates, Policy Expectations, and Stock Prices
Market participants are confident that the FOMC will leave the target federalfunds rate unchanged at next week’s meeting—a significant change from only a
month ago, when most expected a 25 basi s point tightening.  In addition, recent
survey evidence suggests that market participants generally believe that theFOMC will retain its current assessment of balanced risks at the May meeting. Looking further out, futures quotes sugge st a firming in monetary policy by
year-end of 50 basis points, less than half the rise expected at the time of theMarch FOMC meeting.
Against this backdrop, Treasury rates fell 11 to 36 basis points across the
maturity spectrum over the intermeetin g period.  Corporate bond yields also
moved lower, but credit risk spreads in creased for investment-grade borrowers
because of concerns about financial transparency at companies such as General
Electric and warnings of expected lowe r sales by a number of highly rated
telecom firms.  In contrast, risk spreads for junk-rated firms fell slightly.  Riskspreads on commercial paper narrowed, although they remained somewhat
above historical norms.
Even though earnings reports suggested that  profits met expectations in the first
quarter, broad indexes of st ock prices declined 6 pe rcent over the intermeeting
period because of the uncertainity about fu ture profitability.  Larger share-price
declines were posted for telecom and technology firms, for which earnings’
guidance was especially gloomy, and th e broad-based Dow Jones telecom and
technology indexes fell 19 percent and 14 pe rcent respectively.  The decline in 
III-2
III-3
share prices pushed the forward earning s-price ratio up, but with the rise in
AAA yields, the gap between these two m easures of return remained narrow.
Business Finance
Gross bond issuance proceeded at a rapid c lip in March and Ap ril as investment-
grade issuers continued to substitute long-term debt for commercial paper.  Inaddition, some investment-g rade firms issued bonds to pay down bank debt and
bonds having higher coupons.  Issuance of below-investme nt-grade bonds held
up well, accounting for about 20 percent of issuance in the past two months; this
share is about the same as it was last y ear but is well below the shares seen in
the latter half of the 1990s.
Commercial paper conti nued to run off in April, but at a slower pace than in the
previous two months.  Some firms have been shut out of the market because ofconcerns about their accounting transpar ency, while others have shifted to
alternative forms of financing in the face of elevated risk spreads.  Moreover,bank caution has added to the cost of co mmercial paper issuance.  In the April
Senior Loan Officer Survey, many banks  reported having tightened standards
and increased fees and spreads on commerc ial paper back-up lines of credit over
the past year, especially for lower-rate d issuers.  The respondents pointed to
heightened concerns about deterioration in issuers’  credit quality and a higher
probability of lines being drawn down.  
C&I loans at banks also continued to run off in April, consistent with the Senior
Loan Officer Survey responses of ge nerally weaker business loan demand. 
Banks reported that they continued to tig hten standards and terms on such loans,
on net, but to a lesser degree in April than at any time over the past two years. 
Public equity issuance remained subdued in April.  Seasoned equity offerings,
while off somewhat in April, have been fairly well maintained this year.  Thepace of initial public offerings has conti nued to be weak, though new IPO filings
and the number of deals slated for completion in the coming months have
increased modestly, with a heavy concentration in the energy sector.  Shareretirements from cash-financed mergers and acquisitions were small in the firstquarter, and only $10 billion of share re purchases were announced, the slowest
level since 1994.
With about 80 percent of the S&P 500 firms reporting so far, first-quarter
earnings are estimated to have exceeded  fourth-quarter earnings by almost
10 percent (on a seasonally adjusted basis) .  However, much of the first-quarter 
III-4
III-5
III-6
III-7
1. In addition, earnings estimates were revised upward in January and February because of
new goodwill accounting rules, which further reduce amortization expenses. 
2. The survey defined such properties as landmark buildings and commercial properties in
their vicinity, stadiums and other sports/entertainment venues, and large shopping malls.earnings improvement appears to reflect cost-cutting rather than revenue gains.1 
Overall, company reports offered little support for the strong rebound in
earnings that analysts were expecting for the coming year.
The most recent measures of corporate credit quality continued to show a high
level of distress but did not  deteriorate further in March.  Moody’s downgraded
$75 million more debt than it upgraded in  March, leaving the pace of first-
quarter net downgrades similar to the fourth-quarter pace.  The twelve-monthmoving average of bond defaults rema ined elevated, but a forward-looking
measure of aggregate credit quality, KMV’s year-ahead expected defaultfrequency, improved in Marc h, reflecting stock price gains early in the month
and a decline in asset volatility. 
Commercial Real Estate  Finance
Growth in commercial mortgage debt dr opped back in the first quarter after
having surged late last year.  More over, CMBS issuance—a major component of
commercial mortgage debt—remained weak for the first three weeks of April,although trade reports indicated that a si zable amount is in the pipeline.   Risk
spreads have narrowed considerably this  year, despite a steady rise in office
vacancy rates and in CM BS delinquency rates. 
Some observers have cited the difficulty of purchas ing terrorism insurance as one
reason for the falloff in CMBS issuance.  However, market reports indicate that
only high-profile properties, which constitute a small part of the CMBS marketand of bank portfolios, are having difficu lty getting funding because of a lack of
terrorism insurance.  According to the April Senior Loan Officer Survey, mostdomestic banks required terrorism insura nce on fewer than 10 percent of the
loans being used to finance high-profile  or heavy-traffic commercial  properties,
2 
although a few banks require d much higher levels. 
Household Finance
Since the last FOMC meeting, home mo rtgage rates have again dipped below
7 percent, helping to sustain a robust p ace of home sales.  Mortgage refinancing
activity, while well below its peak late last year, remains at a relatively highlevel.   
Overall, household debt is estimated to have risen 8 pe rcent at an annual rate in
the first quarter, the same pace as in th e fourth quarter of 2001.  Mortgage debt
expanded at a robust 9-1/2 percent pace, slig htly faster than in the fourth quarter. 
However, consumer credit growth slowed to 4 percent at an annual rate in the 
III-8
III-9
III-10

III-11
3. The Treasury also announced the discontinuance of regular reopenings of five-year notes
and that it would conduct an additional TIIS auction in October in an effort to enhance the
liquidity of these securities.
4. The Treasury also conducted three buyback operations last month totaling $4 billion--the
first ones this year.  The April 18 buyback was the first to include Treasury inflation-indexed
securities.  Prices on those securities seemed  to benefit from their inclusion, as yields
immediately fell several basis points relative to those on nominal Treasury securities.first quarter, after a surge in motor vehicl e sales in the fourth quarter pushed the
rate up to 8-1/4 percent.  
Despite further substantial growth in  household debt, a continuation of low
interest rates and a sharp rise in disposable income growth led to a small declinein the household debt-service burde n last quarter.  Although subprime
delinquency rates remained quite elevated, rates on some broader delinquency
measures continued to hover within th eir range of recent years.  Bankruptcy
filings by households declined in recen t weeks but remained in the elevated
range seen so far this year.  According to the April Senior Loan Officer Survey,credit standards for residential mortga ge loans were largely unchanged, while
standards for consumer loans c ontinued to tighten somewhat. 
The ratio of household assets to dis posable income is estimated to have
decreased slightly in the first quarter, as the jump in disposable personal incomeoutpaced a moderate rise in the value of  household assets.  Net flows into long-
term mutual funds slowed in April, as  contributions into equity funds slowed
from their robust pace in March. 
Government Finance
Individual non-withheld tax r eceipts were considerably weaker than expected in
April.  Indeed, as part of its midqua rter refunding announcement, the Treasury
indicated that it expected to borrow $1 billion, on net, over the second quarter,
as opposed to paying down a large amount  of debt, as it ha d announced several
months ago.
3  To avoid breaching its statutory borrowing limit, the Treasury
disinvested almost $19 billion in Ap ril from the Government Securities
Investment Fund (the G-fund).  This disinvestment, which elicited little market
reaction, allowed the Treasury to issue cas h-management bills to meet its short-
term financing needs and s till stay under the debt ceiling.4  Later in the month,
the Treasury was able to reinvest the G -fund assets, with an adjustment for lost
interest.  
Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac issued  sizable amounts of securities over the
intermeeting period, including a little more than $15 billion of Fannie Mae
benchmark securities and $9 billion of Freddie Mac reference securities.  Yields 
III-12
III-13
5. Amid increasing concerns about their disclosure practices, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
both voluntarily provided more information about their derivatives positions and counterparty
exposures, which indicated that their total exposure in the event of a default by all over-the-
counter derivative counterparties was small.  Fanni e Mae also attracted attention last month with
its announcement that it would exercise a “cleanup call” of $1-1/2 billion of older MBS.  It later
retracted this comment to quell investors’ cr iticism, effectively forgoing near-term profit in
excess of $100 million.  Neither of the events had a significant effect on agency yields or
issuance.
6. Mortgage refinancings cause liquid deposits to swell as mortgage servicers accumulate
the proceeds of prepaid mortgages in escrow acco unts for a short time before their distribution to
holders of mortgage-backed securities.  In addition, households typically build up M2 assets
ahead of April 15 to make final payments on their prior-year tax liabilities.  M2 growth is held
down when refinancings subside or tax payments are low. 
7. Deposit rates typically lag movements in market rates.  As policy eased aggressively last
year, deposits became increasingly attractive.  Now that short-term market rates have been stable
for some time, deposit rates have caught up.on these securities over the intermeeting period moved down with Treasury
yields.5 
Gross offerings of long-term debt by st ate and local governments have remained
strong in recent months, boosted by c ontinued hefty new capital issuance to
fund a variety of infrastruct ure projects.  In contrast , partly because municipal
yields have risen, refundings slowed in April to about two-th irds of the level
seen earlier in the year.  While the overall credit quality of the sector remains ata high level, the fiscal stresses being fe lt by state and local governments resulted
in some additional ratin g downgrades in municipa l bonds, and the pace of
upgrades, while remaining above downgrades, has ta iled off.  Yield ratios
relative to Treasuries ticked up in April and remained in the elevated rangeobserved since late 1999. 
Monetary Aggregates and Bank Credit
The broad monetary aggregates decelerated noticeably over the intermeetingperiod.  A slowdown in the liquid compone nts of M2 owed in part to less
mortgage refinancing and low tax payments
6 and a leveling out in the
opportunity cost of holding deposits.7  Precautionary demands for M2, built up
last year, apparently c ontinued to unwind, further slowing liquid components. 
Foreign demands for U.S. currency added very little to money growth, on net,despite sizable shipments to Argentina in March.  M3 growth also dropped off,
but not as much as the growth of M2, because of a surge in large time deposits.
Bank credit expanded at a fairly brisk pace in April, with the strength
concentrated in banks’ securities portfo lios.  Loans edged up, continuing the
pattern of anemic lending activity that has prevailed this year.  
III-14
III-15
Incoming reports for large bank holding companies show earnings coming in at
or above expectations, with first-quarter  earnings 28 percent above levels a year
ago.  However, with credit quality  an ongoing concern, loan loss provisions and
charge-offs increased substantially in the first quarter relative to a year earlier,although banks generally rema ined very well capitalized.
III-16
Appendix
April 2002 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey
The April 2002 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices
focused on changes in the supply of a nd demand for bank loans to businesses
and households over the past three months .  The survey contained two sets of
supplementary questions.  The first se t addressed changes in banks’ lending
policies with regard to commercial paper backup lines  of credit over the past
twelve months, and the second set focuse d on the role in commercial real estate
lending of problems in the market for terrorism insurance.  Loan officers
representing fifty-six large domestic banks  and twenty-one U.S. branches and
agencies of foreign banks participated in the April survey. 
Results of the survey indicate some furt her tightening of standards and terms for
loans to both businesses and households.  However, the number of domestic and
foreign banking institutions that reported tightening standards and terms oncommercial and industrial (C &I) loans over the past three months moved down
considerably from the January survey.  The net fraction of domestic institutionsthat indicated that they had tightened standards for commercial real estate loansin the April survey also declined, though it remained in a relatively high range. 
Banks continued to report a weakening of demand for C&I and commercial real
estate loans, albeit at a lesser rate than in January.  According to the domesticrespondents, standards for residential mortgage loan s were largely unchanged
over the past three months, and demand fo r these loans was moderately stronger
on net.  As in January, only a small por tion of domestic banks , on net, reported
tightening standards for consumer loan s.  For the second consecutive survey,
banks reported tightening terms on non-cred it-card loans to a greater extent than
they have terms on credit card loans.  Demand for consumer loans was roughly
unchanged over the past three months.
Lending to Businesses
Compared with the January survey, significantly smaller fractions of domesticbanks and U.S. branches and agencies of  foreign banks reported that they had
tightened standards on C&I loans.  Th e percentage of domestic banks that
reported having tightened their standa rds on C&I loans to large and middle-
market firms over the past three m onths moved down to 25 percent from 
45 percent in the previous survey; th e percentage tightening standards on
business loans to small firms declined even more, from more than 40 percent inJanuary to about 15 percent in April.  Similarly, the fraction of U.S. branches
and agencies of foreign banks that had tightened standards for customers
seeking C&I loans or credit lines fell from 70 percent in January to about 
40 percent in the current survey.
In April, smaller fractions of domestic banks reported tightening the terms listed
in the survey to large and middle-market  firms than in January.  The largest
III-A-2
change was in the net fraction of banks th at had increased spreads of loan rates
over their cost of funds, which fell from 40 percent in January to about 
25 percent in the current survey.  In a ddition, somewhat sma ller net percentages
of banks reported that they had tightened  loan covenants and increased the cost
of credit lines for these customers over the past three months.  However, about
45 percent of domestic banks increased premiums charged on riskier loans to
large and middle-market firms, about the same as in the January survey. 
 Changes in terms on C&I loans to small firms followed a similar though morepronounced pattern.  The net fraction of domestic banks that tightened
covenants on loans to small firms fell from 40 percent in January to only about
12 percent in the current survey; the ne t percentage of banks that increased
spreads of loan rates over their cost of funds moved down from 37 percent to 
13 percent over the same period.  The net fraction of ba nks that reported
increasing premiums charged on riskier loans to small firms over the past threemonths edged down from 40 percent in January to 34 percent in the currentsurvey.         
The fraction of U.S. branches and agencies  of foreign banks that tightened terms
on C&I loans generally declined but remained in an elevated range.  Thepercentage of foreign institutions that raised premiums on riskier loansdecreased from 75 percent in January to 52 percent in the current survey, andthe fraction of foreign banks that stre ngthened loan covenants declined from 
52 percent to 43 percent over the same  period.  The one exception was the
percentage of foreign institutions that increased the costs of credit lines, whichmoved up noticeably from 35 percent in the previous survey to 57 percent inApril.  Among foreign institutions, the tightening of terms on C&I loans wasparticularly widespread at the branches and agencies of Japanese banks.  All six
Japanese institutions that participated in the April survey increased the cost ofcredit lines, and all but one of these institutions reported raising spreads of loanrates over their cost of funds.  Acco rding to these banks, the most common
reason for imposing more stringent terms on business borrowers was adeterioration in their capital position followed by a less favorable economic
outlook and reduced tolerance for risk.  
A significant percentage of banks that  tightened standards or terms on C&I
loans over the past three months pointed to a reduced tolerance for risk as a
reason for doing so and continued to voice concerns about the economic
outlook.  In the current survey, thr ee-quarters of domestic and foreign
respondents cited reduced tolerance for risk as a reason for tightening their
lending policies, about th e same fraction as in Ja nuary.  About 70 percent of
domestic banks also indicated that a le ss favorable or more  uncertain economic
outlook was a reason for changing their st andards and terms over the past three
months.  While still high, this fraction represents a marked decline from theJanuary survey in which all but one dom estic bank indicated that this was at
III-A-3
1. To account for the concentration of commerc ial paper backup lines of credit among the
largest institutions, responses for domestic banks were weighted by the sum of C&I loans and
unused commitments obtained from the 2001:Q4 Call Report.  These weights are intended to
proxy for banks’ participation in this line of business.     least a somewhat important reason for tightening their lending policies. 
Furthermore, only 10 percent of domes tic respondents in the current survey
noted that a less favorable or more uncertain economic outlook was a “very
important” reason, down from 40 percent in the January survey.
About one-third of domestic banks, on net, reported weaker demand for C&I
loans from both large and small firms over the past three months, down from
roughly one-half in the January survey .  Every domestic bank that experienced
weaker demand reported that a decline in customers’ needs for bank loans to
finance capital expenditures was at least a somewhat important reason for theweakness in demand, and more  than one-third of respondents chose this reason
as “very important.”  As in the Janua ry survey, banks also reported weaker
demand for loans to finance mergers a nd acquisitions, invent ories, and accounts
receivable.  Out of eight banks that reported an increase in demand for C&Iloans, six of them indicated that the increase was due to a shift in borrowingfrom other bank or nonbank credit sources th at became less attractive, likely, at
least in part, a reflection of the recent pressures in the market for commercialpaper.  The same number of  banks identified a decline in customers’ internally
generated funds as a reason for higher C&I loan demand. 
The net percentage of foreign branches and agencies reporting weaker demand
for C&I loans fell from nearly 50 percent in January to 14 percent in the currentsurvey.  Despite the widespread tighten ing of lending standards and terms at
Japanese banks, only one of these institutions reported moderately weakerdemand for C&I loans over the past thr ee months.  The most frequently cited
reason for weaker demand at foreign institutions was a decline in requests formerger and acquisition financing.  
Commercial paper backup lines of credit.   A series of special questions were
aimed at changes in banks’ lending po licies for commercia l paper backup lines
of credit over the past twelve months.  Forty-six of the largest domestic banks
and nineteen foreign institutions indicated that they provide these facilities on aregular basis.
1  Domestic banks accounting for more than one-third of total
lending facilities—defi ned as the sum of C&I loans and unused
commitments—tightened standards on comme rcial paper backup lines of credit
for nonfinancial firms with A1/P 1 commercial pape r ratings; domestic
institutions accounting for about 60 percen t of total lending  facilities indicated
doing so for firms with A2/P2 ratings.  The (unweighted) fraction of foreign
institutions that had tightened standa rds on commercial paper backup lines of
credit for nonfinancial firms with an A1/P1 commercial pa per rating over the
III-A-4
2. For the purposes of the survey, high profile or heavy traffic commercial real estate
properties were defined as landmark buildings and commercial properties in their vicinity,
stadiums and other sports/entertainment venues, and large shopping malls.  past twelve months stood at 60 percent,  while almost 90 pe rcent reported doing
so for lower-rated borrowers.  
Domestic banks accounting for more than 90 percent of total lending facilities
indicated that they had increased fees and raised spreads associated withcommercial paper backup lines  of credit for commercial paper issuers with both
A1/P1 and A2/P2 ratings.  Banks pointed to heightened concerns about possible
deterioration in issuers’ credit quality and a higher probability of lines beingdrawn because of less certain conditions  in the commercial paper market as
reasons for tightening standards and terms.   Over the past twelve months, about
10 percent of domestic banks (weighted) and 10 percent of foreign institutions(unweighted), on net, re ported stronger demand fo r commercial paper backup
lines of credit from nonfinancial issuer s with both A1/P1 and A2/P2 ratings.  
Commercial real estate lending.  The net fraction of domestic banks that
reported tighter standards on commercial real estate loans over the past three
months declined from 46 percent in January  to 30 percent in the current survey. 
At branches and agencies of foreign banks, the net percen tage reporting tighter
standards on commercial real estate loans remained stab le at about 20 percent. 
In the current survey, more than 30 percent of domestic respondents, on net,
noted that demand for commercial real estate loans had weakened, down from
43 percent in January; among foreign institutions, 25 percent, on net, reportedweaker demand for this type of loan over the past three months.
A set of special questions addressed how the lack of insurance against terrorism
has affected commercial r eal estate lending.  A bout 70 percent of domestic
respondents indicated that less than 5 percent of the dollar volume of their
commercial real estate loans outst anding—either held on their books or
securitized—is backed by “high profile” or “heavy traffic” commercial realestate properties.
2  For about one-fifth of banks , loans financing high profile
properties make up between 5 percent and 10 percent of their commercial real
estate loan portfolio, while for the re mainder, such loans account for between 
10 percent and 20 percent of  commercial real estate  loans outstanding.  At
foreign institutions, loans backed by  high profile pr operties account for
somewhat larger shares of the respondent s’ commercial real es tate portfolios.  
Almost three-quarters of domestic banks indicated th at they require terrorism
insurance on less than 10 percent of loans financing high profile or heavy traffic
commercial real estate properties.  Indeed, in their comments, a number of
banks noted that their standard  commercial real estate loan
III-A-5
contracts—especially for smaller lo ans (less than $10 million)—generally do
not require terrorism insurance.  Ho wever, six domestic and six foreign
respondents that answered these special  questions reported that they require
insurance against terrorism on more th an 90 percent of loans financing such
properties.  At the end of  last year, these six domestic institutions held about 
9 percent of all commercia l real estate loans on the books of domestic banks
according to the 2001:Q4 Call Report.  Th e most recent weekly bank credit data
indicate that the six foreign institutions  account for less than 2 percent of all
commercial real estate loans on the books  of domestic banks and U.S. branches
and agencies of foreign banks.   
Domestic respondents indicated that if coverage was required and an existing
borrower were unable to secure adequate  insurance against terrorism for a high
profile commercial real esta te property, their most likely response was to ask for
additional collateral and to modify the existing loan covenants to allow forpartial coverage.  The foreign institutions, by contrast, noted that their mostlikely course of action was to increase fees  or interest rates associated with the
loan, and three foreign respondents indicated  that they are very likely to call the
loan or refuse to roll it over when the loan comes due.
Among domestic banks that received applications for loans to finance high
profile commercial real es tate properties since the events of September 11, 
90 percent indicated that their rejecti on rate on these loan applications has
stayed about the same.  Sixty percent of U.S. branches and agencies of foreign
banks that received applications for loans to finance these types of propertiesreported their rejection ra te as essentially  unchanged.  Almost 80 percent of
domestic banks and more than 70 percent of foreign institutions indicated thatthey experienced little or no change in demand for loans to finance high profileproperties because potential borrowers were unable to secure affordable
insurance against acts of terrorism.  Seven domestic banks reported moderately
weaker demand and four domestic and three foreign institutions experiencedsubstantially weaker demand for loans to finance high profile commercial realestate properties because of terrorism insurance issues.
Lending to Households
Domestic banks’ credit sta ndards for approving reside ntial mortgage loans were
largely unchanged over the past three months, with only one bank reporting that
it had tightened lending standards somewhat , the same as in the January survey. 
On net, about 6 percent of domestic respondents reported in creased demand for
residential mortgages, down from 30 percent in January.  
In the current survey, less than 10 per cent of banks indicated that they had
tightened standards on credit card loans over the past three months, a somewhat
smaller percentage than in January; terms and conditions on existing credit cardaccounts were largely unchanged.  For othe r types of consumer loans, one-fifth
III-A-6
of banks reported that they had tightened  standards over the past three months,
about the same percentage as in the January survey.  Almost one-quarter of
domestic banks raised the minimum requi red credit score on consumer loans
other than credit card loans, and 15 pe rcent reduced the number of exceptions
granted to customers not meeting cred it-scoring thresholds.  On net, banks
reported demand for consumer loans as about unchanged over the past three
months.
III-A-7
III-A-8
 
International Developments
InternationalDevelopments
U.S. International Transactions
Tradein Goods and Services
TheU.S. international tradedefici t in goods and services was $31.5 billion in
February, up $3.3 billion from January(revised). Thewideningofthetradedeficit was accounted forprimarilybyastrongincreasein imports ofgoods andservices. ForJanuaryand Februarycom bined, thetradedeficit was $359 billion
at an annual rate, $27 billion largerthan in thefourth quarterof2001.
Thevalueofexported goods and services rose1.2 percent in February. A3.6 percent risein services exports, w hich wereboosted byreceipts associated
with theWinterOlympicGames, accounted fornearlyall oftheincrease. Goodsexports werelittlechanged, as amodest decreasein exports ofcapital goods(mainlyaircraft)was offset bysmall increases in most othercategories oftrade.ForJanuaryand Februarycombined, thevalueofexported goods and servicesincreased about 1 percent from thefourth quarterlevel: a1.4 percent declinein
goods exports was outweighed bya6.6 percent increasein services exports.
Thevalueofimported goods and services surged 4 percent in February.
Services imports rosemorethan 5 percent, though about halfofthat increaseisexplainedbyroyalties andlicensefees paidtotheInternational OlympicCommitteefortherights to broadcast the2002 WinterOlympicGames. Thevalueofimported goods, excludinggold an d oil, rose4.6 percent, with relatively
strongincreases occurringin all majorcategories oftrade. Within thecapitalgoods category, imports ofcomputers a nd aircraft declined somewhat in
February, but this was morethan offset byhigherimports ofsemiconductors,
telecommunications equipment, and othermachinery. Thevalueofimported oil
IV-2
IV-3
IV-4
IV-5
declined 8 percent, resultingentirelyfrom alowerimport volume. ForJanuary
and Februarycombined, thevalue ofimported goods and services rose
2.8 percent from thefourth quarterlevel, with both goods and servicescontributingto theincrease.
Prices of Internationally Traded Goods
Oil.TheBLS priceofimported oil shot up nearly16 percent in March,
followingsmallerincreases in thetwo precedingmonths. Forthefirst quarter,thepriceofimported oil was up about 14 pe rcent (a.r.)relativeto thefourth
quarteroflast year. Thespot priceofWes t Texas intermediate(WTI)crudeoil,
which also rosein both Januaryand Feb ruary, moved sharplyhigherin March.
In April,thespot pricehas been volatile,rangingbetween $23 and $28 perbarrel. Thecurrent spot priceofWTIis a bout $27 perbarrel. Factors generating
thepriceincreaseincludeproduction res traint byOPEC, heightened tensions in
theMiddleEast, asuspension ofexports byIraq, and uncertaintyregardingpolitical stabilityinVenezuela,andhenceits oil shipments.
Non-oil imports . Thepriceofimported non-oi l coregoods was unchanged in
March followingadeclineofabout 0.4 percent in February. Increases in pricesoffoods and industrial supplies (excluding petroleum), both ofwhich had fallen
in February, wereoffset bycontinued s mall declines inprices ofcapital and
consumergoods. Forthefirst quarter on average, thecoregoods priceindex
was down about 2.2 percent at an annual rate, thefourth consecutivequarterlydecline. However, thefirst-quarterdrop was less steep than theearlierdeclines,as prices ofindustrial supplies fell onlyabout 5 percent at an annual ratefollowingthreequarters ofdouble-digit d eclines. Theslowerrateofdeflation in
industrial supplies reflects therecen t turnabout in prices ofraw industrial
commodities, which wereabout 8 percent abovetheirNovembertrough bymid-April.
Exports. Prices ofU.S. coregoods exports rose0.4 percent in March, following
morethan ayearofnearlycontinuous declines. Amongmajorcategories, thelargest increasein March was in thepr iceofindustrial supplies, which rose
0.7 percent followingadeclineofabout 8.5 percent overtheprecedingyear.Food prices also rosein March, partiallyre versingtheirFebruarydecline. Prices
in othermajorcategories wereunchang ed orup slightlyin March. On average,
thepriceofcoregoods was down about 1.2 percent at an annual ratein thefirstquarterfollowingan annual ratedeclineo f3.4 percent in thefourth quarter.
IV-6
U.S.International Financial Transactions
U.S.financial flows through international securities transactions decreased
considerablyin thefirst two months oftheyear. ForJanuaryand Februarycombined,net purchases offoreign securities byU.S.investors werenearzero(line5 oftheSummarytableofU.S.Int ernational Transactions), whilenet
purchases ofU.S. securities byprivateforeigners (line4)recorded thelowesttwo-month total sinceearly1999.
Theweakness in foreign demand forU.S. securities was first apparent last
September, but thepattern has varied s omewhat byinstrument. Privatenet
foreign purchases ofall types ofU.S. securities—Treasury, agency, andcorporate—wereveryweak in September. Net privateforeign purchases ofU.S.Treasuryand agencysecurities (lines 4aand 4b)then bounced back stronglyinthefourth quarter—perhaps owingto flight-to-qualitybuying—but slowedmarkedlyin thefirst two months of2002. Therecent weak demand byprivateforeigners forTreasurysecurities was not entirelyunexpected; net sales werethenorm beforethefourth quarter. Forag encybonds, however, therecent weakness
has been surprisingsinceit coincided with strongissuance.
Privatepurchases ofU.S. corporatesecurities haveexhibited aslightlydifferent
pattern (lines 4cand 4d). Foreigners sold U.S.equities heavilylast September,but returned to theU.S. equitymarket with strongdemand in thelast two monthsof2001. Thedemand forU.S. equities continued, albeit at asomewhat lowerlevel, in January, but fell to only$6 billio n in February, about halfofwhich took
theform ofamerger-related stock swap . Foreign purchases ofcorporatebonds
followed asimilarbut moremuted pattern—weakeningin Septemberfollowedbyverysolid demand through Janua ryand someslowingin February.
Issuancepatterns forMarch could suppor t apickup in foreign purchases of
agencyand corporatedebt. In particul ar, FannieMaereports strongforeign
demand forits newissues in themonth, an d bond issuancebyU.S. corporations
reached near-record levels.
In February, capital inflows from foreign official sources weresomewhat
strongerthan in previous months (line1). Thelargest inflowin themonth wasattributableto China,whoseholdings increased $12 billion,in linewith theiroverall increasein foreign reserves. T aiwan’s official holdings in theUnited
States alsoincreasedsubstantially($3.5billion),whilethelargest decreaseinthemonth was posted forNorway($5 billion).
Wehaveno new dataon foreign direct i nvestment flows. As noted previously,
U.S. direct investment abroad (line6 )was verystrongin 2001, notwithstanding
aslight weakeningin thefourth quarter. F oreign direct investment in theUnited
IV-7
States (line7), however, fell offshar plyin thesecond halfof2001. Timelydata
oncompletedmergerand acquisition activitysuggest that both inflows andoutflows ofdirect investment mayw ell beweak in thefirst quarter.
With inflows through securities slowing,net bankinginflows increased to
$28 billion in February, followingmoderateoutflows in January(line3).
IV-8
Summaryof U.S.International Transactions
(Billions of dollars,not seasonallyadjustedexcept as noted)
2000 20012001 2002
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan. Feb.
Officialfinancialflows 39.3 2.0 4.8 -21.3 13.2 5.4 3.7 7.8
1. Change inforeignofficial assets
inthe U.S. (increase, +) 39.6 6.9 4.6 -20.0 16.8 5.6 3.7 7.5
a. G-10 countries 12.3 -7.9 -5.5 -6.1 -5.6 9.2 2.9 2.4
b. OPECcountries 10.7 -1.9 .8 -2.1 -4.7 4.1 -2.6 -2.7
c. Allother countries 16.6 16.8 9.2 -11.8 27.0 -7.7 3.4 7.8
2. Change inU.S. official reserve
assets(decrease, +) -.3 -4.9 .2 -1.3 -3.6 -.2 .0 .3
Private financialflows 404.0 453.9 98.9 175.9 27.1 151.9 ... ...
Banks
3. Change in net foreign positions
ofbanking offices in the U.S.1-6.7 0.5 -75.0 23.8 -3.3 55.0 -11.6 28.3
Securities2
4. ForeignnetpurchasesofU.S.
securities(+) 435.7 500.3 149. 0 125.0 73.9 152.2 10.9 19.8
a. Treasurysecurities -52.4 16.4 .7 -8.5 -9.3 33.4 -14.6 2.3b. Agencybonds 111.9 144.2 38.8 29.4 33.2 42.8 1.6 5.0c. Corporate and municipalbonds 182.1 218.1 68.9 69.6 37.2 42.4 15.4 6.8d. Corporate stocks
3194.0 121.6 40.7 34.5 12.9 33.5 8.5 5.7
5. U.S. net acquisitions (-) of
foreignsecurities -101.1 -62.9 -20.6 -44.1 20.4 -18.6 2.8 -2.2
a. Bonds -4.1 30.4 -2.0 8.8 26.5 -2.9 -1.0 2.3b. Stockpurchases -13.1 -50.1 -16.0 -18.7 -6.1 -9.3 3.8 -2.7c. Stockswaps
3-84.0 -43.2 -2.6 -34.2 .0 -6.4 .0 -1.8
Other flows (quarterlydata, s.a.)
6. U.S. directinvestment(-) abroad -152.4 -156.0 -41.1 -41.2 -43.2 -30.4 ... ...7. ForeigndirectinvestmentinU.S. 287.7 157.9 52.8 65.6 22.6 17.0 ... ...8. ForeignholdingsofU.S. currency 1.1 23.8 2.3 2.8 8.2 10.5 ... ...9. Other (inflow, + )
4-60.2 -9.7 31.5 44.1 -51.5 -33.3 ... ...
U.S. current account balance (s.a.) -444.7 -417.4 -112.1 -107.9 -98.5 -98.8 ... ...
Capital account balance (s.a.)5.7 .7 .2 .2 .2 .2 ... ...
Statisticaldiscrepancy (s.a.) .7 -39.2 8.3 -46.8 58.1 -58.7 ... ...
NOTE: Thesumofofficialand privatefinancialflows, thecurrent account balance, thecapitalaccount balance, and thestatistical
discrepancyiszero. Detailsmaynot sumtototalsbecauseofrounding.
1. Changesin dollar-denominated positionsofalldepositoryinstitutionsand bank holdingcompaniespluscertain transactions
between broker-dealersand unaffiliated foreigners(particularlyborrowingand lendingunderrepurchaseagreements). Includeschangesin custodyliabilitiesotherthan U.S. Treasurybills.
2. Includescommissionson securitiestransactionsand excludesadjustmentsBEAmakestoaccount forincompletecoverage;
thereforedoesnot match exactlythedata on U.S. internationaltransactionspublished bytheDepartment ofCommerce.
3. Includes(4d)orrepresents(5c)stocksacquired through mergers.4. Transactionsbynonbankingconcernsand otherbankingand officialtransactionsnot shown elsewhereplusamountsresulting
fromadjustmentsmadebytheDepartment ofCommerceand revisionsin lines1 through 5 sincepublication ofthequarterlydata intheSurveyofCurrent Business.
5. Consistsoftransactionsin nonproduced nonfinancialassetsand capitaltransfers.
n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
IV-9
ForeignExchangeMarkets
On balance, thetrade-weighted index o fthedollar’s exchangevalueagainst
othermajorcurrencies fell 2.4 percent overtheintermeetingperiod. Thedollar
depreciated as market participants pushed back expectations ofmonetarypolicytighteningin theUnited States, followi ngmixed economicdatareleases, the
Chairman’s Congressional testimony, and comments byotherFOMC members.Lateintheintermeetingperiod,thedollarfell followingCongressionaltestimonybyTreasurySecretaryO’Neill. Somemarket participants apparentlyinterpreted his remarks as suggestingasofteningofthe“strongdollar”policy.
Theindex ofthedollar’s valueagainst our otherimportant tradingpartners,in
contrast, rose0.8 percent, led byalargedepreciation oftheArgentinepeso and amodest declinein theMexican peso.
On net, thedollardepreciated 2.7 percent against theeuro and 2.6 percent versus
sterling. TheEuropean Central Bank and theBank ofEngland left theirpolicy
rates unchanged overtheintermeetingp eriod, as expected. Expectations of
futuremonetarypolicytighteningthat areimplicit in interest ratefutures havebeen pushed back in timein both theeuro areaand theUnited Kingdom,although not as much as in theUnited S tates. Yields implied byeuro and
sterlinginterest ratefutures contract s maturingin thelast quarterof2002 fell
about 40 basis points on net overtheperi od. Factors that tended to limit the
appreciation oftheeuro against thedolla rincluded concerns overlaborunrest in
IV-10
Germanyand Italyand thesuccess ofthefar-right candidate, Jean-MarieLePen,
in thefirst round oftheFrench Presi dential election. TheSwiss franc
appreciated 3.3 percent relativeto thedollar, which market participantsattributed to safehaven flows and thebelie fthat domesticinflationarypressures
leavetheSwiss National Bank littlescopeto weaken thecurrencybyeasingmonetarypolicy.
TheBank ofCanadaraised its policyrate25 basis points. This followed the
Canadian March employment report, which was much strongerthan expected.Dataon Canadian GDP and housingstarts also camein abovemarketexpectations. TheCanadian dollarappreciated 1.9 percent against theU.S.dollar. TheNewZealand dollarand Australian dollarlikewiseappreciatedagainst theU.S. dollarfollowingstrongeconomicdatareleases in bothcountries. TheReserveBank ofNew Zealand and theBank ofSweden bothraised theirpolicyrates 25 basis poi nts twiceovertheintermeetingperiod.
TheJapaneseyen appreciated 2.9 percent against thedollar, despiteaone-notch
downgradeofJapan’s sovereign debt r atingbyStandard &Poor’s to AA-and
reports that Moody’s is consideringa n aggressivetwo-notch downgrade.
Japaneseofficials stated that theywer econcerned about thestrengtheningofthe
yen.
IV-11
Afterrisingsharplyat theend ofthefiscal year, current account balances at the
Bank ofJapan havefallen back somewh at but haveremained abovethecurrent
10-15 trillion yen target range.
On net, broad equityindices fell about 2 to 5 percent in Europeand Canadaand
werelittlechanged in Japan. Thenew fiscal yeardid not producethelargecapital outflows from Japan that somema rket participants had feared. Indeed,
Japanesepublicpension funds arerepor ted to havemadelargepurchases of
Japanesestocks. Shares in e xport-oriented firms out performed broaderindexes
in Japan, as market participants hopefo ran export-led recovery. Japanese
bankingshares also outperformed, in p art followingareport on theloan
portfolios ofbanks bytheFinancial Services Agencythat contained no negativesurprises. Benchmark 10-yearbond yi elds in most industrial economies
decreased overtheintermeetingperi od, but bysmalleramounts than in the
UnitedStates.
Thedollarappreciated 28 percent against theArgentinepeso. Thepeso had
fallen even furtherbut laterretraced someofits losses in verythin and restrictedtrading. Reports indicatethat the peso was supported bycentral bank
intervention and bytherequirement that exporters repatriatetheirearningswithin 5 days, instead ofthe180 days that had previouslybeen allowed. Thecentral bank declared abankingand foreign exchangeholidaythat lasted foroneweek in responseto thedepletion ofits dollarreserves and an ongoingtrend of
bank withdrawals facilitated bycourt ord ers allowingaccess to frozen deposits.
In response, theArgentinecongress pa ssed legislation makingit harderfor
depositors to do this. EconomyMinisterRemes Lenicov resigned aftertheArgentinecongress failed to act on apla n convertingfrozen bank deposits into
government bonds and was replaced byRoberto Lavagna. Negotiations with theIMFarein stalemate.
TheVenezuelan bolivarappreciated against thedollarafterPresident Chavez
was ousted in acoup, but thecurrencyfell back afterhewas reinstated afewdays later.
Developments in Argentinaand Venezuelahad littlecontagion effect on other
emergingmarkets. In Taiwan and Malaysia, stock prices rose1 to 5 percent, ledbygains in technologyshares. In Korea, thewon appreciated 2.4 percent againstthedollarand sovereign bond yield spread s overTreasuries fell 17 basis points,
in part dueto an upgradingofMoody’s sovereign debt ratingforKorea. TheMexican peso fell 4.1 percent against thedollar, followingtherecent looseningofmonetarypolicyin Mexico. In Brazil,st ock prices fell 8.1 percent, sovereign
bond yield spreads overTreasuries rose145 basis points, and the realfell
IV-12
0.7 percent against thedollar. Market participants attributed thesemovements
in part to thefact that thecandidateoftheopposition Workers’Partyis ahead ofthecurrent government’s likelycandi datein opinion polls fortheOctober
presidential election.
                                     
         . TheDesk did not interveneduringtheperiod fortheaccounts oftheSystem ortheTreasury.
IV-13
Developments inForeign Industrial Countries
Indicators forthefirst quarterpoint to arecoveryofactivityamongmost foreign
industrial countries, but thepaceoftherebound varied widely. Signs ofstronggrowth emerged in Canada, includingalargeincreasein employment and arebound in manufacturingoutput. Datain theeuro areasuggest amodestrecoverystarted in thefirst quarter . In theUnited Kingdom, real GDP expanded
slightly, whileit appears likelythat Japan continued to contract, though at amoremoderateratethan overt hesecond halfoflast year.
Thefirst quarterwas marked byapick-up i n therateofinflation in most foreign
industrial countries. Thetwelve-month r ateapproached the2 percent midpoint
oftheBank ofCanada’s 1 to 3 percent target rangein March, afterendinglastyearjust belowthebottom limit. In theUnited Kingdom,therateofretail priceinflation ticked up slightlyin March,but remained belowtheBank ofEngland’s2.5 percent target. Euro-areainflatio n remained abovetheEuropean Central
Bank’s (ECB)2 percent target ceiling. Deflation appears to bemoderatingabit
in Japan.
InJapan, indicators suggest that thepaceofcontraction has moderated and
signs ofstabilization havebegun to emergein somesectors. Industrial
production roseslightlyin thefirst quarter , thefirst increasein overayear, with
notablegrowth in theproduction ofel ectrical machinery. Thebroaderall-
industryindex, aproduction-based pro xyforGDP, was up slightlyin January
and Februaryon average, although servi cesectoractivitycontinued to decline.
Real exports rosesharplyin thefirst quarter, reflectingan increasein shipmentsto Asiaand theUnited States. Howeve r, most indicators ofdomesticdemand
continued to weaken. On average, coremachineryorders in JanuaryandFebruarywereroughly7 percent below th eir fourth-quarter averagelevel, while
nonresidential buildingstarts continued to decline, suggestingfurtherretrenchment in capital spending. Resid ential buildingstarts wereabout flat in
Januaryand Februaryon average. Priva teconsumptionremainedsluggish,with
workers’household expenditures up slightlyin Januaryand Februaryonaverage.
Labormarket conditions generallyrema in unfavorable, although March data
showed slight improvement. Theunemployment rateedged down to 5.2 percentin March, from 5.3 percent in Februaryand arecord-high 5.5 percent inDecember. Thejob-offers-to-applicants ratio edged up to .51 in March, still well
below its recent peak of.66 in December2000. Coreconsumergoods prices intheTokyo area(which excludefresh food but includeenergy)weredown
IV-14
1.1 percent from ayearearlierin April. Wholesaleprices fordomesticgoods
wereunchanged in March from Febru ary, but continued to declineat a
significant rateon atwelve-month basis.
JapaneseEconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,except as noted,s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.
Industrial production1-4.4 -3.4 .5 -.1 1.2 .5 n.a.
All-industryindex -1.8 -.9 n.a. -.1 .5 n.a. n.a.Housingstarts 4.4 -2.5 .8 9.0 -4.9 -6.2 n.a.Machineryorders
2-5.7 -7.8 n.a. -15.6 10.8 n.a. n.a.
Machineryshipments -5.9 -4.7 3.4 1.4 1.9 1.6 n.a.Newcar registrations 1.6 -5.5 1.9 3.0 -2.4 -5.3 10.8Unemployment rate
35.1 5.4 5.3 5.3 5.3 5.2 n.a.
Joboffersratio4.58 .52 .51 .51 .50 .51 n.a.
Business sentiment5-36 -40 -41 ... ... ... ...
CPI(Core,Tokyoarea)6-1.2 -1.0 -.9 -1.2 -.9 -.7 -1.1
Wholesaleprices6-1.1 -1.4 -1.4 -1.5 -1.4 -1.3 n.a.
1. Mining and manufacturing.
2. Private sector, excluding shipsand electric power.
3. Percent.4. Level of indicator.5. Tankan survey, diffusion index.6. Percentchange fromyear earlier, n.s.a.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
TheBank ofJapan’s Tankan index ofbusiness conditions worsened slightlyin
March, with thediffusion index forall enterprises edgingdown to -41 from -40in December. Surveyrespondents proj ect aslight improvement in theindex,
back to -40, forJune. Thecloselywatch ed index forlargemanufacturers was
unchanged at -38, thefirst timein fivequa rters that theindex did not deteriorate.
Theindex forlargenon-manufacturin gfirms was also unchanged, while
sentiment amongsmall-sized manuf acturingand non-manufacturingfirms
continued to deteriorate. Fewer firm s expect output prices to fall overthenext
threemonths, whilethenumberoffirms that expect input prices to fall wasunchanged. Sales and profits areexpected to recoverin FY2002. However,capital investment is expected to fall 8 percent in FY2002, compared with an
IV-15
estimated declineofroughly5 percent in FY2001, suggestingweakness in
domesticdemand.
TheBank ofJapan continued to providefunds in excess ofits ¥10 trillion to
¥15 trillion target rangefortheoutstandingbalanceoffinancial institutions’accounts held at thecentral bank. In thelast week ofFY2001, which ended inMarch, thebalancemoved above¥20 trillion, reaching¥27.6 trillion onMarch 29. Sincethen, theBOJ has beg un to drain reserves from thebanking
system, although balances remain relativelyhigh at about ¥18 trillion. OnMarch 20, theBOJ announced measures to br oaden therangeofinstruments that
can beused in open-market operations to includeloan certificates issued bytheDeposit InsuranceCorporatio n and byregional governments.
On April 12, theFinancial Services Agency(FSA)released theresults ofits
special examination of149 borrowers from Japan’s majorbanks. Theexamination, which focused on borrowers that had experienced largedownward
movements in stock prices, credit ratin gs, orotherfinancial indicators, forced
thebanks to takeadditional loan losses of¥1.9 trillion and to classifyanadditional ¥4.7 trillion in loans as non-pe rformingoverwhat was reported last
September. Despitethecurrent write-offs, theFSAreleasestates that themajorbanks’total capital ratios remain in the10-11 percent range.
Recent datapoint to amodest improvement in the euro-area economyin the
first quarter. Euro-areaindustrial p roduction forJanuaryand Februaryon
averagewas 0.2 percent abovethefourth-quarteraverage. Surveydataonproduction expectations suggest afurther production increasein March, making
it likelythat industrial production rosein t hefirst quarterforthefirst timesince
thefourth quarterof2000. Thevolumeofret ail sales forJanuaryand February
on averagealso edged up slightlyfrom thefourth quarter. Euro-areabusinesssentiment continued to rebound in March, risingback to its Septemberlevel.
Thepurchasingmanagers’index (PMI)forthemanufacturingsectorroseinMarch to its highest level in ayear, suggestingthat growth likelyreturned to thesectorlast month, and theservicesectorPMIrosein March to its highest levelsincelast July. Otherindicators, howev er, suggest that therecoveryis uneven
andstill somewhat tentative. Consumersentiment has pickedupless thanbusiness sentiment; theApril surveyofItalian consumers showed confidencefallingback to thelowest level in morethan ayear,in part owingto increasedtensions overlaborreform. German gro wth appears to belaggingthat ofthe
othermajoreconomies, and German Mar ch manufacturingorders and April
business sentiment (based on both theZEW and IFO surveys)haveretraced partoftheirearliergains.
IV-16
Labormarket datafortheeuro areaas awholecontinueto showonlyslight
deterioration, as theharmonized unemployment rateedged up to 8.4 percent inNovemberand remained at that ratethrough March. Accordingto thepreliminaryestimate, thetwelve-month rateofeuro-areaconsumerpriceinflation edged down to 2.2 percent in April, exceedingtheECB’s 2 percentceilingforthe23
rdconsecutivemonth. Excludingfood and energyprices, the
twelve-month inflation ratewas 2.5 percent in March. Producerprices remainbelowyear-ago levels.
Euro-Area EconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious periodexcept as noted,s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.
Industrial production1-.4 -1.7 n.a. .0 .2 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales volume .3 .2 n.a. -.4 .5 n.a. n.a.Unemployment rate
28.3 8.4 8.4 8.4 8.4 8.4 n.a.
Consumer confidence3-7.7 -10.7 -9.7 -11.0 -9.0 -9.0 n.a.
Industrial confidence4-10.0 -17.0 -13.0 -14.0 -14.0 -11.0 n.a.
Mfg.orders,Germany -2.4 -1.0 n.a. -.7 -1.3 n.a. n.a.CPI
52.5 2.2 2.5 2.7 2.4 2.5 2.2
Producer prices51.6 -.8 n.a. -.9 -1.1 n.a. n.a.
M356.8 8.2 7.3 7.9 7.4 7.3 n.a.
1. Excludes construction.
2. Euro-area standardized to ILO definition. Includes Eurostat estimates insome cases.3. Diffusionindexbased onEuropeanCommissionsurveysinindividualcountries;
Averages ofresponses to questions on financial situation, general economic situation,and purchasing attitudes.
4. Diffusionindexbased onEuropeanCommissionsurveysinindividualcountries;
Averagesofresponsesto questionsonproductionexpectations, orders, and stocks.
5. Eurostat harmonized definition, 12-monthpercent change.n.a. Not available.
Bi-annual German wagenegotiations havecometo aturningpoint,with
members ofthebellwethermetalworker s union havingvoted to go on striketo
back thedemand forawageincreaseofat least 4 percent, versus theemployers’latest offerof3.3 percent. TheGerma n chemical industryrecentlyagreed to a
3.6 percent increase, and that is believed to haveset thefloorforincreases in themuch largermetalworkingindustry. Th eEuropean Central Bank has expressed
IV-17
concern that high wagesettlements,seekingtocatch upforpast inflation
surprises, run therisk ofkeepinginflation from fallingbelowits 2 percentceiling.
Thefirst round oftheFrench presiden tial election produced asurprise, with
far-right candidateJean-MarieLePen movinginto thesecond round ofvotingalongwith incumbent President Jac ques Chirac. Chiracled thevotingwith
19 percent, whileLePen took 17 percen t ofthevoteto 16 percent forPrime
MinisterLionel Jospin. Thesecond round had been expected to beashowdownbetween Chiracofthecenter-right and Jospin ofthecenter-left, but votersperceived littledifferencebetween thetwo mainstream candidates andresponded byabstainingin record numbers and votingforaplethoraofmarginal
candidates, especiallyon theleft. President Chiracnow is expected to win thesecond round on May5, with polls showingas much as 80 percent oftheelectoratesupportinghim against LePen.
Real GDP in the United Kingdom rose0.4 percent (s.a.a.r.)in thefirst quarter
of2002, afterbeingflat in theprevious quarter. Forthefourquarters endingin
March, real GDP grew 1 percent, theweakest four-quartergrowth ratesincethefourth quarterof1992, when it was 0.9 percent. Theservicesectorgrew at arateof1.9 percent (s.a.a.r),similarto its growth in thefourth quarter. TheOfficeofNational Statistics estimates that industrial production fell sharply
again in thefirst quarter.
Thefew availableindicators forthesec ond quarterindicateapick-up in growth.
Themanufacturingsector’s four-month- ahead output expectations continued to
climb in April. ThemanufacturingPMIwas morepositivewith theoverallindex, as well theindices foroutput and new orders, all risingagain in April and
continuingto indicateexpansion. Cons umerconfidenceticked-up slightlyin
April, remainingaround its pre-Septemberlevel. Apr il’s retail sales survey
suggested increased sales volumes forthemonth. Housingprices surged3.4 percent in April, bringingthetwelve-month growth rateto around16 percent.
Notwithstandingtherecent slowingofGDP growth, labormarket conditions
remain tight. Theofficial claims-based unemployment rateremained at3.1 percent in March, and thelaborforcesurveymeasureoftheunemploymentrateheld steadyat 5.1 percent forthet hreemonths centered in January. Both
unemployment rates arenear record lows.
IV-18
U.K. EconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious periodexcept as noted,s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.
Real GDP* 1.7 .0 .4 ... ... ... ...
Industrial production -1.1 -2.2 n.a. -.6 -.2 n.a. n.a.
Retail sales 1.5 1.3 .9 .0 1.1 .1 n.a.Unemployment rate
1
Claims-based 3.2 3.2 3.1 3.2 3.1 3.1 n.a.Labor force survey
25.1 5.1 n.a. 5.1 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Business confidence3-6.0 -24.0 -3.3 -13.0 1.0 2.0 14.0
Retail prices42.4 2.0 2.4 2.6 2.2 2.3 n.a.
Producer input prices5-2.7 -8.2 -5.4 -6.2 -7.4 -2.5 n.a.
Average earnings54.4 3.3 n.a. 2.9 .8 n.a. n.a.
*Preliminaryrelease.
1. Percent.2. Three-month average centered on month shown.3. Percentage of firms expecting output to increase in the next four months less percentage
expectingoutput to decrease.
4. Excludingmortgage interest payments. Percent change fromyear earlier.5. Percentchange fromyear earlier.n.a. Not available.
Thetwelve-month rateofretail priceinflation (excludingmortgageinterest
payments)ticked up slightlyto 2.3 percent in March. As aresult oflowerbonuses, thetwelve-month growth rat eofaverageearnings dropped to
0.9 percent in February, well below the4.5 percent ratethat theBank ofEnglandbelieves tobecompatiblewithits inflationtarget.
ChancelloroftheExchequerGordon Br own presented thegovernment’s budget
to Parliament on April 17. Thebudget includes additional spendingon public
services, directed primarilytowards theNational Health Service, as well as anincreasein theNational Insurancepayroll tax rate, several tax breaks forbusinesses, and asupplementarysurcha rgeon North Seaoil profits. Thebudget
deficit was 0.1 percent ofGDP in 2001-2002, instead ofan expected 0.3 percent
ofGDP. For2002-2003 and 2003-2004, thedeficit is expected to be1 percentofGDP and 1.2 percent ofGDP, respectively.
InCanada, real GDP measured byindustryin Januaryand Februaryon average
increased 4.5 percent (s.a.a.r)from thefourth quarter, with auto sales and
IV-19
housing-related purchases providingmuch oftheimpetus forgrowth.
Manufacturingshipments increased 3.2 percent in Januaryand 0.8 percent inFebruary, thefirst back-to-back mont hlyincreases since1999. In January, the
gain was broad-based as 18 out of21 sectors experienced growth, with themotorvehicleindustrybeinganotableexception. February’s increase, conversely, was
largelytheresult ofa9.1 percent (m onthlyrate)increasein motorvehicle
shipments,as shipments excludingmotorvehicles actuallyfell 0.4percent.InMarch thePMIsurvey, whic h includes both manufactur ingand servicesectors,
roseforthethird consecutivemonth to its highest level sinceMay2001.
Residential construction, akeycom ponent ofgrowth in thefourth quarter,
continued to showstrength throughout th efirst quarter. In thefirst quarter,
housingstarts increased 19 percent from thefourth quarter, reachingatwelve-yearhigh. Auto sales extended t heirfourth quarterrun-up, with the
averageofJanuaryand Februarynew vehi clesales running3.5 percent (quarterly
rate)abovethefourth quarterlevel. Busi ness confidencerecovered sharplyin
thefirst quarter, returningto alevel not seen sincetheend of2000.
Theunemployment ratein March declined to 7.7 percent from 7.9 percent in
February. TheCanadian economyadde d anet of88,000 jobs in March, the
highest one-month increasein the 26-yearhistoryoftheseries.
Thetwelve-month rateofconsumerpricei nflation roseto 1.8 percent in March,
largelyon account ofhighervegetabl e, electricity, and tobacco prices.
Excludingenergyand food prices, thetw elve-month ratestood at 2.2 percent in
March, up from 1.8 percent in February.
IV-20
Canadian EconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious periodexcept as noted,s.a.)
Indicator2001 2002 2001 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
GDPat basic prices -.3 .3 n.a .2 .6 .5 n.a
Industrial production -2.2 -1.7 n.a -.9 1.7 1.7 n.a.Newmfg.orders -3.6 -4.7 n.a -2.1 4.0 2.2 n.a.Retail sales -.7 2.6 n.a 1.5 1.3 -.1 n.a.Employment -.1 .1 .7 -.1 .5 .0 .6Unemployment rate
17.2 7.7 7.8 8.0 7.9 7.9 7.7
Consumer prices22.7 1.1 1.5 .7 1.3 1.5 1.8
Consumer attitudes3107.9 114.1 125.9 ... ... ... ...
Business confidence393.0 117.6 141.5 ... ... ... ...
1. Percent.
2. Percentchange fromyear earlier, n.s.a.3. Levelofindex, 1991 = 100.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
IV-21
External Balances
(Billions of U.S.dollars,s.a.a.r.)
Country
andbalance2001 2002
Q3 Q4 Q1 Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
Japan
Trade 52.0 52.7 72.4 50.7 59.8 60.6 96.8
Current account 87.8 101.1 n.a. 97.3 112.0 100.7 n.a.
Euroarea
Trade161.5 82.7 n.a. 85.0 10.8 43.3 n.a.
Current account126.8 53.7 n.a. 47.1 -15.9 21.9 n.a.
Germany
Trade 48.5 46.7 n.a. 58.5 62.3 50.8 n.a.Current account 3.7 25.5 n.a. 14.8 5.4 35.8 n.a.
France
Trade 1.2 1.3 n.a. .5 2.1 .7 n.a.Current account 5.6 4.6 n.a. 5.2 5.6 2.2 n.a.
Italy
Trade 2.1 15.1 n.a. 15.6 4.4 7.1 n.a.Current account
19.3 9.9 n.a. -2.5 -28.4 -.4 n.a.
UnitedKingdom
Trade -46.3 -48.2 n.a. -55.3 -42.8 -44.7 n.a.Current Account -13.7 -43.7 n.a. ... ... ... ...
Canada
Trade 31.1 32.0 n.a. 34.5 38.1 34.2 n.a.Current Account 10.2 8.2 n.a. ... ... ... ...
1. Notseasonallyadjusted.
n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
IV-22
IV-23
IV-24
EconomicSituationinOtherCountries
Sincethelast Greenbook, evidence ofeconomicrecoveryin themajor
developingcountries has mounted, with th eexceptions ofArgentina, Venezuela,
and HongKong. Argentina’s economicand financial crisis deepened, but withlittlespilloverto otheremergingmarket economies to date. Inflation in mostcountries has remained well contained.
Overtheintermeetingperiod, the economicenvironment continued to
deterioratein Argentina . Bankingconditions worsened even furtheras legal
challenges bydepositors allowed forc ontinued drain in deposits. In lateApril,
EconomyMinisterJorgeRemes Lenicov re signed afterhis proposal to convert a
largeamount ofdeposits into govern ment bonds was rejected bythecongress.
Hewas replaced byRoberto Lavagna. To address thedeposit drain, followingRemes Lenicov’s resignation theArge ntinecongress approved ameasureto
slow thelegal process that has been allowingmanydepositors access to theirfunds. However, this is onlyastop-gap measureand thegovernment is expectedto unveil aplan similarto tha t proposed byRemes Lenicov.
Argentinebanks reopened on April 29, af terbeingclosed foroneweek. Since
mid-April, thepeso has appreciated 5½ percent on balance, closingat P2.95/$ onApril 30,reflectingverytight liquidity conditions. International reserves stood
at $12.3 billion on April 29, down from $13.3 billion in mid-March. Observersarewatchingto seewhetherArgentina’s central government and provinces takethesteps that theypromised to takein astatement issuedon April 25. Thisstatement promises to reform theba nkruptcylaw, stimulatetheeconomy,
undertakefiscal reforms, improverelati ons with theinternational financial
community, and revokean “economicsubversion”law that has been used toharass bank executives. IMFstaffwill again visit Argentinain mid-May,butprospects foran IMFagreement within thenext few weeks areunclear.Nevertheless, hopingthat an agreemen t with theIMFcan becompleted in June,
theArgentinegovernment is attemptingtoobtain abridgeloan to enableit tomakeasizeablepayment to theWorld Bank in May.
Datareleases sincethelast Greenbook c ontinueto paint apictureofan economy
in distress; industrial production continue d to fall in March, puttingit morethan
25 percent below its peak in mid-1998, and consumerconfidenceremaineddepressed. Inflation continued to rise, re flectingtheeffects ofthecollapseofthe
peso. TheCPIhas increased atotal of9 percent in 2002 through March, andanalysts estimatethat inflation in April was at least 6 percent. Thedepressedstateoftheeconomyhas contributed to an improvement in thetradebalance.
IV-25
ArgentineEconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1-1.9 -9.9 -18.5 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production -1.8 -5.4 -5.4 -3.3 -1.2 .1 -.3Unemployment rate
215.1 17.4 18.3 ... ... ... ...
Consumer prices3-.7 -1.5 -1.6 4.2 .6 4.0 7.9
Trade balance41.2 6.3 11.1 17.6 15.8 18.9 18.0
Current account5-10.3 -5.6 .6n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a. Data are released for Mayand October only. Figuresfor Q4 reflect data
for October.
3. Percent change fromyear-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions ofU.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions ofU.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
InMexico, therearesigns that theeconomyis turningaround. Overall
economicactivity(amonthlyindex that p roxies forreal GDP)and industrial
production posted significant gains in February. Business confidencehas
continued to riseand in March was at a bout thelevel that prevailed around early
2000. Afterseveral quarters ofdecline, exports stabilized in thefirst quarter
and, as imports continued to fall, thetra dedeficit narrowed. Theunemployment
r a tew a su pab itinMa r c h .
In mid-April, theBank ofMexico (BOM)surprised observers byloosening
monetarypolicy(through arelaxation o fthe“corto”)onlytwo months after
tighteningpolicyin February. TheBOM argued that its Februarytighteninghadrestrained inflation expectations and thus helped keep priceincreases in linewith this year’s 4½ percent target–thetwelve-month risein consumerprices inMarch was 4.7 percent–therebyjustifyi ngthesubsequent loosening. However,
thepolicymoveis increasinglybeingviewed bymarkets as aimed at weakeningthepeso becauseofconcerns that thestrength ofthecurrencymayhinderaneconomicrecovery. Sincethemonetarypolicydecision, thepeso hasdepreciated over3 percent against thedollar.
IV-26
Mexican EconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP14.9 -1.5 -.9 n.a. ... ... ...
Overall economic activity 6.5 -.1 -.4 n.a. -.1 .6 n.a.Industrial production 6.0 -3.3 -1.0 n.a. -.3 .7 n.a.Unemployment rate
22.2 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.8 2.5 2.7
Consumer prices39.0 4.4 5.2 4.7 4.8 4.8 4.7
Trade balance4-8.0 -10.0 -11.0 -7.3 -6.2 -9.8 -5.8
Imports4174.5 168.4 163.1 160.1 158.8 164.4 157.1
Exports4166.5 158.4 152.1 152.9 152.7 154.6 151.3
Current account5-17.7 -17.7 -23.2 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent; counts as unemployed those working one hour a week or less.3. Percent change fromyear-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions ofU.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions ofU.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
InBrazil, datareleases sincethelast Greenbook haveprovided furtherevidence
ofeconomicrecovery. Industrial output ro senearly5 percent between October
and February, puttingit about 2 percent below its year-earlierlevel. However,retail sales wereflat on balanceovertheJanuary-Februaryperiod, and consumerconfidenceremains at alow level. Inflation rosein March, driven byrises ingovernment-controlled gas and electricity rates, bringingtwel ve-month inflation
to 7.8 percent. Therebound in economicac tivitycontributed to anarrowingin
thetradesurplus in thefirst quarter.
At its mid-April meeting, thecentral bank left its target fortheovernight interest
rateunchanged at 18.5 percent, afterhavingreduced therate50 basis points intwo steps earlierthis year. Thecentral bank cited its concern that therecent risein thepriceofoil makes it increasinglylikelythat inflation,bytheend ofthisyear, will still exceed the5.5 percent uppe rlimit ofthegovernment’s inflation
target range.
IV-27
Brazilian EconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP14.1 -2.3 -6.5 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 6.6 1.5 -.3 n.a. 1.4 .3 n.a.Unemployment rate
27.1 6.2 7.5 7.3 7.5 7.4 7.0
Consumer prices36.0 7.7 7.5 7.6 7.6 7.5 7.7
Trade balance4-.7 2.6 9.2 4.6 7.7 -1.8 7.8
Current account5-24.6 -23.2 -23.0 -12.9 -13.7 -13.1 -12.0
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent. “Open” unemployment rate.3. Percent change fromyear-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec. Price
index is IPC-A.
4. Billions ofU.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions ofU.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
InVenezuela , political events havetaken cen terstagesincethelast Greenbook.
In earlyApril,tensions between Pres ident Hugo Chavez and workers at
Venezuela’s state-owned oil companyle d to work stoppages that paralyzed the
oil industry. Thestrikeescalated into ma ss anti-government demonstrations that
culminated in violenceand thebrie fousterofChavez byafaction ofthe
military, supported byaloosecoalition ofbusiness and laborgroups. With thehelp ofloyal troops and militant civ ilian supporters, Chavez reclaimed the
presidencyafteronlytwo days. Sincehi s return, Chavez has called fornational
unityand has changed theleadership oftheoil companyto appeasetheworkers,but manyanalysts areskeptical that his conciliatorystancewill last oncehehasconsolidated power. Tensions in thecountryremain high and thepoliticalupheaval has brought into even sharperreliefthedivisions within themilitaryand between thebusiness communityand thepoor.
On theeconomicfront, conditions arealso precarious. Overthetwelvemonths
ended March, consumerprices rose 17.6 percent, up notablyfrom previous
months, as theeffect ofFebruary’s move to afloatingcurrencycontinues to feed
into prices. Anecdotal reports arethat investment has all but ceased and that thenumberofunemployed has jumped sharply.
IV-28
Venezuelan EconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP15.7 n.a. n.a. n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate213.4 13.3 11.8 n.a. 16.4 n.a. n.a.
Consumer prices313.4 12.3 12.4 14.6 12.3 13.7 17.6
Non-oil trade balance4-10.8 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Trade balance418.0 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current account513.4 4.4 -1.8 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent, n.s.a.3. Percent change fromyear-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions ofU.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions ofU.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
Economicconditions in Koreahavefurtherstrengthene d overtheintermeeting
period. In thefirst quarter, industr ial production was up 1.4 percent and
consumption rosesharply, whileconsumerconfidencereached afive-yearhigh.Moreover, government spendingin thef irst quarterwas boosted bypreparations
forhostingtheWorld Cup in June. Thetradeand current account balances alsoimproved in thefirst quarter, as e xports rebounded whileimports were
essentiallyflat. Inflation remains well within thecentral bank’s 2 to 4 percenttarget range, but stronggrowth indicat ors in thefirst quarterhaveraised
concerns that inflationarypressures aremounting. As aresult, thenewlyappointed GovernoroftheBank ofKorea, Park Seung, signaled that interest
rates would beraised soon. TheFinanceMinistryalso changed hands overtheintermeetingperiod and thenewminister, Jeon Yun Churl, is thought likelytoacceleratereforms and bolsterinvestorconfidence. Even beforehisappointment, Moody’s upgraded its sove reign debt ratingofKoreato A3 as a
result ofKorea’s improved macroec onomicperformanceand progress on
structural reforms.
IV-29
Korean EconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Feb. Mar. Apr.
Real GDP15.1 4.4 6.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production 16.9 1.7 2.2 1.4 -4.0 3.7 n.a.Unemployment rate
24.1 3.7 3.4 3.0 2.8 2.9 n.a.
Consumer prices32.8 3.2 3.3 2.5 2.7 2.3 2.5
Trade balance416.9 13.4 7.8 19.4 11.6 23.1 n.a.
Current account512.2 8.6 4.2 7.2 4.6 13.1 n.a.
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change fromyear earlier, except annual changes, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions ofU.S. dollars, annual rate.5. Billions ofU.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
Recent dataforthe ASEANregion continueto indicatethat arecoveryhas been
underway. Thailand, thelast to report f ourth-quarterreal GDP numbers, grew
8.8 percent (s.a.a.r.). Sincethela st Greenbook, industrial production in the
region continued to rebound, putting each country’s production well aboveits
fourth-quarterlevel.
Theregion continued to report strongtradesurpluses in Januaryand February,
and in most cases thefirst-quartertradesurplus is on paceto exceed that ofthefourth quarter. Exports have, in gener al, been abovefourth-quarterlevels,
although imports havealso risen som ewhat. With theexception ofIndonesia,
inflationarypressures havebeen kept at bay.
IV-30
ASEAN EconomicIndicators: Growth
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator andcountry 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP1
Indonesia 7.3 1.2 3.4 n.a. ... ... ...
Malaysia 6.4 -.9 7.1 n.a. ... ... ...Philippines 3.9 3.8 3.9 n.a. ... ... ...Singapore 11.4 -6.4 5.6 n.a. ... ... ...Thailand 3.5 2.1 8.8 n.a. ... ... ...
Industrial production
2
Indonesia311.6 .7 .3 n.a. 1.6 7.3 n.a.
Malaysia 19.1 -4.1 -.5 n.a. 3.6 5.3 n.a.Philippines 14.9 -.4 4.7 n.a. .2 n.a. n.a.Singapore 15.3 -11.6 4.5 7.4 17.9 -5.6 2.0Thailand 3.3 1.3 3.3 .6 -.1 .4 4.1
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Annual figures are annual averages.3. Staffestimate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.
ASEANEconomicIndicators: TradeBalance
(Billions of U.S.dollars,s.a.a.r.)
Country 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Indonesia 28.6 25.2 25.8 n.a. 27.9 31.2 n.a.
Malaysia 16.0 14.4 13.0 n.a. 19.2 13.2 n.a.Philippines 6.7 2.6 5.9 n.a. 10.1 4.0 n.a.Singapore 3.3 5.8 6.5 6.5 16.4 .8 2.3Thailand 5.5 2.5 2.7 2.9 .1 3.7 4.9
n.a. Not available.
IV-31
ASEAN EconomicIndicators: CPI Inflation
(Percent change fromyear earlier,except as noted)
Country 20001200112001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Indonesia 9.3 12.5 12.6 14.5 14.4 15.1 14.1
Malaysia 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.4 1.1 1.2 2.1Philippines 6.7 4.1 4.7 3.6 3.8 3.4 3.6Singapore 2.1 -.6 -.2 -.8 -1.1 -.6 -.9Thailand 1.4 .8 1.1 .6 .8 .3 .6
1. December/December.
Chinarecorded 8.5 percent (s.a.a.r.)growth in real GDP in thefirst quarter.
This was aboveeven themost optimisticexp ectations ofprivate-sectoranalysts.
Stronggrowth in investment,consump tion, and net exports, wereall cited by
Chineseofficials as contributingto first -quartergrowth. TheMarch figureon
thetradebalancewas in linewith theaveragelevel forlast year,but was downconsiderablyfrom thefirst two months ofthis year. Both exports and importsareup about 20 percent overfourth-quart erlevels. Industrial production also
continued to riseat arobust pacein thefirst quarter. Despiteall ofthesigns ofstrongeconomicactivity, consumerpr ices continued to fall and arenow
0.8 percent below theiryearago levels.
What littledatawehavereceived for HongKong sincethelast Greenbook
suggest that economicconditions rema in weak. Thethree-month average
unemployment ratehit 7 percent in March, anew high. Consumerprices havecontinued to fall, although at asomewh at slowerpacethan in theprevious few
months. Thetradebalancerecorded asmallerdeficit in thefirst quarterthan inthefourth quarter, but exports remain weak.
Recent indicators for Taiwanpoint to arecoveryin economicactivity.
Industrial production rose3.6 percen t in thefirst quarter, as theeconomy
continued to rebound from last year’s slowdown. Theunemployment ratehasstabilized,afterrisingmost oflast year. Thetradebalancealso improved in thefirst quarter, although theMarch dat aweresignificantlyweakerthan the
previous two months. Consumerprices wereflat in March afterrisingin
February, abigchangefrom thealmost 2 percent deflation experienced last year.
IV-32
ChineseEconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP18.0 7.5 7.1 8.5 ... ... ...
Industrial production211.4 8.9 8.5 8.2 18.6 2.7 10.9
Consumer prices21.5 -.3 -.1 -.6 -1.0 .0 -.8
Trade balance324.1 23.1 34.2 40.3 42.5 55.4 22.9
1. Annual rate. Quarterlydata estimated bystafffromreported four-quarter growth rates.
Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent change fromyear earlier. Annual figures are year over year.3. Billions ofU.S. dollars, annual rate. Imports are c.i.f.... Not applicable.
HongKongEconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP16.9 -1.8 -.8 ... ... ... ...
Unemployment rate25.1 4.9 6.1 7.0 6.7 6.8 7.0
Consumer prices3-2.1 -3.5 -2.1 -2.6 -3.4 -2.3 -2.1
Trade balance4-11.0 -11.4 -7.6 -4.5 -15.5 5.4 -3.5
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent. Monthlynumbers are averages of the current and previous two months.3. Percent change fromyear-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions ofU.S. dollars, annual rate. Imports are c.i.f.... Not applicable.
IV-33
Taiwan EconomicIndicators
(Percent change fromprevious period,s.a.,except as noted)
Indicator 2000 20012001 2002
Q4 Q1 Jan. Feb. Mar.
Real GDP13.9 -1.8 10.3 n.a. ... ... ...
Unemployment rate23.0 4.6 5.3 5.3 5.4 5.2 5.3
Industrial production 7.4 -7.3 1.4 3.6 3.8 .7 2.2Consumer prices
31.7 -1.7 -.6 -.1 -1.7 1.4 .0
Trade balance48.3 15.6 21.0 22.9 26.5 28.1 14.0
Current account58.9 19.0 28.2 n.a. ... ... ...
1. Annual rate. Annual figures are Q4/Q4.
2. Percent.3. Percent change fromyear-earlier period, except annual figures, which are Dec./Dec.4. Billions ofU.S. dollars, annual rate. Imports are c.i.f.5. Billions ofU.S. dollars, n.s.a., annual rate.n.a. Not available. ... Not applicable.